ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e70	Honourable co-representatives! Former depositor Otto Lyng died on 9 September, at 77 years of age. Otto Lyng was born on 15 July 1926 in Enebakk, Akershus, but grew up in Trondheim. Already during high school he became heavily involved in active resistance work. He was only 16 years old when he was able to get the complete drawings of the designed submarine plant in Trondheim. When the Gestapo came to the Cathedral School to arrest Mr. Otto Lyng, he was able to avoid being taken and transferred to Sweden. He later came to England, where he served as a glider. Otto Lyng was awarded the King’s Medal for Courage in the Cause of Freedom and the Delta Medal in 1945. After the liberation he continued his education and took a degree in artium in 1946, followed by an excellent law school in 1950. After the studies, he entered the family business of Trondhjems Jernindustrie A/S, while engaging in politics. He was chairman of the Trondheim Young Right in 1951-1952, a member of the National Government of the Young Right in 1953, and chairman of the Young Røjres Landsförbund in 1955–57. He was chairman of the Trondheim Right in 1956-1957 and chairman of the South Trøndelag Right from 1967 to 1972. For several periods he was also a member of the National Government of the Right and the Central Government. Already at the municipal elections in 1951 he was elected to Trondheim City Council. He was a member of the presidency from 1952 to 1959 and left the city council in 1963. After being an alternate to the Stortinget from 1954 to 57, Otto Lyng was elected as a representative from the South Trondelag at the 1957 elections. He was re-elected four times and left the Storting in 1977. At Stortinget, Otto Lyng was in his first term a member of the Administrative Committee, then of the Military Committee and of the Foreign and Constitutional Committee. He was Vice-Chairman of the Military Committee in 1965 and 1966 and then Secretary of both the Foreign Affairs Committee and the enlarged Foreign Committee. He was a member of the North Atlantic Assembly from 1966 to 1969 and led the delegation in 1968 and 1969. Otto Lyng was strongly involved in defence and foreign policy and was passionately engaged in combating dictatorship and abuse. One of the most famous examples of this was his strong protests against the military junta in Greece, where he was able to enter into direct dialogue with Minister of the Interior Pattakos. After this, ‘Mr. Otto from Norway’s concept. Later he engaged himself equally spontaneously against an abuse of power in e.g. Czechoslovakia, Poland and Turkey. He was completely ‘colour-blind’ when it came to criticising dictatorship trends. Otto Lyng had a number of public offices. He was, among other things, Chairman of the Election Commission of 1968, member of the Board of Governors of the House Bank and Chairman of the Supervisory Committee of the House Bank. He was also for many years a member of and later a Vice-Chairman of the National Fund's main board. For many years he was also a member of the Board of Directors of the Address Paper. After he left the Stortinget, Otto Lyng again engaged in local politics and made his choice for the South-Tronde Team, where he became the head of the Health and Social Government. His strong commitment also came out clearly when he went into the mouth of the small shareholders who lost their money during the banking crisis. Otto Lyng characterized himself as a political ‘delivery’ and was fully aware that his clear speech could lead to reactions. In many individual cases he perceived himself as a ‘loyal opposition’ within the Right, but at the same time was the individualist who also played on layers. From 1965 to 1973 he was a member of the Right Group Board, while being a whipper, not only for the Right Representatives, but for the entire bourgeois block. Otto Lyng has also characterized himself as a «hurragutt». It's probably a description that most of the people who got in touch with Otto Lyng during his twenty years at Stortinget, will nod at all. The laughter and the good line were never far away and contributed, in addition to his professional qualities and ability to cooperate across party boundaries, to the fact that he had a high star among both representatives and employees. We remember Otto Lyng with deep respect for his work in the Storting and brighten the peace of his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e91	A number of permit applications are available: from the representative of Kjell Engebretsen, Dagrun Eriksen, Trine Skei Grande, Hans Kristian Hogsnes, Bjørn Jacobsen and Karita Bekkemelm Orheim on leave from 20 October to 14 November, all to attend the 58th ordinary General Assembly of the United Nations, Part II, of New York from Højres Storingsgruppe on health leave for the representative Silja Ekeland Bjørkly from 20 October until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave:For the West Agder County: Sigmund KroslidFor Akershus County: Sverre MyrliFor Hordaland County: Erlend NornesFor Møre and Romsdal County: Ottar Kaldhol and Ingrid I. OpedalFor Oslo: Ola ElvestuenFor the Westfold County: Marie Kürstein3. Sigmund Kroslid and Ingrid I. Opedal is elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Dagrun Eriksen and Bjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e167	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e170	On behalf of Ågot Valle and myself, I will present a Document No. 8-proposals for a registration scheme for those who seek out the Storting on behalf of themselves and others to influence the Storing in matters for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e175	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e189	The position in the case under consideration has not been beyond the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 184]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e209	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 184]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e225	As rapporteur of the case, I should like to start by noticing the unfortunate fact that the committee has had very limited time to deal with the Nordic cooperation message. For the future, the Committee should organise its work in such a way that urgent action on such matters becomes unnecessary. Over the more than 50 years of cooperation at the Nordic Council, the organisation has fully demonstrated its right to exist and has developed a significant legitimacy both within and outside our region. It has shown the will and ability to turn to new issues in our time, while building on the Nordic distinctiveness. The biggest news of Nordic cooperation clearly demonstrates the close and extensive cooperation between the Nordic countries. Firstly, we have the formal cooperation in the Nordic Council of Ministers with Nordic Ministers of Cooperation, and we have the specialist Council of Ministers in 17 matters. In addition, we have the Nordic Prime Minister meetings and meetings that take place between the Foreign Ministers, the Defence Ministers and the Development Ministers. On the parliamentary side, we have established extensive cooperation through the Nordic Council framework, with national delegations, Nordic expert committees, committees and Nordic party groups. But this is just the top of a nice iceberg. Official Nordic cooperation is based on a background of Nordic cooperation and contacts between hundreds of organisations and associations, and it is therefore important, in my view, for good cooperation between the authorities and the voluntary sector. The democratic social dialogue shall include all stakeholders, non-governmental organisations, businesses, professional associations, governments and political parties, to name a few. The majority of the Committee then also underlines the importance of involving voluntary organisations and the voluntary sector in further work in at least as strong and good a way as one has done in the past. There is an overall committee that supports the priority given by the Government to the continued systematic reduction of border barriers between Nordic countries. People in the Nordic region expect it to be easy to travel, live, study, get medical treatment, etc. in another Nordic country. Personal mobility has been seen as the basis for the development of the Nordic region ever since the start of cooperation. Mobility promotion and the removal of bureaucratic and legal border barriers must therefore be a priority area for action in the future. 50 years of successful cooperation despite: Ambassador Norrback's report showed us that we cannot rest on the laurels, and the Committee also stresses that there is good reason for the Government to propose regulatory changes when it turns out in practice that existing rules constitute an obstacle to general Nordic relations. It is therefore expected that the Council of Ministers will present concrete proposals for solutions to some of the problems mentioned in the Norrback report to the next session of the Nordic Council. But we have achieved a lot in the form of binding conventions and agreements. Good agreements, however, are not enough. Unfortunately, it has been found that there are major gaps in knowledge of mobility rights, that law enforcement also has insufficient knowledge. It is therefore necessary to provide both information to the public and to enhance the competence of the responsible authorities. The message conveys that important steps have been taken to follow up on these matters. I am thinking about strengthening the information service Hello Norden and the series of seminars to school the national administration. There is reason to pay tribute to the Minister of Cooperation for this. An overall committee also highlights the importance of among a number of good proposals and reports the ability to crystallise clear priorities in the work of the Nordic Council. In this context, the Norwegian delegation is invited to work towards a clearer prioritisation of matters and a targeted dialogue between the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers. It may be tempting to present a wide range of examples of good, current Nordic cooperation. An example is the follow-up to the Nordic Sustainable Development Strategy. The 20-year main objective of the strategy on more short-term, concrete performance requirements is a good example of a regional coordinated environmental policy. The strategy was presented both to the EU and at the Johannesburg Summit in 2002. Further work on the strategy focuses on operational indicators for achieving objectives in relation to sustainable development and the inclusion of social and economic parameters in sustainable development policies. Another example could be gender and gender equality, where the Nordic region remains the highest priority region. Particular attention has been paid to trafficking in women, which also involves efforts in the neighbourhoods in the form of campaigns, information and networking. This is a serious problem with many aspects. Economic and social distress and organised crime are aspects of this activity. The majority of the Committee emphasises that both of the above-mentioned areas, the environment and the fight against trafficking in women, are areas for which particular attention should be paid in the future. The majority of the Committee is concerned with the traditional close Nordic cooperation in the area of aid and humanitarian aid and is continuing to do so. The Nordic countries are seeking close Nordic cooperation in international organisations, particularly in the World Bank and the United Nations system. Nordic consultations also include, as is known, Nordic candidates for international office and in some cases also positions. The majority of the Committee is concerned with the continuation of Nordic cooperation on European issues. The impact of increasing globalisation and deepening integration in Europe will increase the need for Nordic coordination in order to strengthen the Nordic influence and to promote Nordic values and interests internationally. Nordic cooperation is an important channel for making Nordic views known and for promoting Nordic interests with a view to important processes in the EU. As a result, the majority of the Committee emphasises the positive emphasis placed by the Government on the continuation of the early warning system on specific EU and EEA issues. The system ensures that issues for treatment in the EU and the EEA of common nordic importance are discussed in an early Nordic framework. The government’s efforts to strengthen Nordic contacts and the information exchange relevant to Norway in relation to the EU are therefore important. In this context, it is particularly relevant to point out the forthcoming revision of the EU Structural Fund policy and the significant task of creating an EU understanding of the specific regional policy challenges of the Nordic region. The ESA's requirement to convert the Norwegian model of a differentiated employer's fee, a model that all parties in this room want to maintain, is a striking update of this point. The majority of the Committee emphasises the importance of conflict prevention and peacekeeping. Among other things in the Balkans, we have practical and good examples of this, which should be managed further. Nordic cooperation has also proved useful in other areas of defence policy cooperation. For example, let me mention the Nordic armaments cooperation, which promotes cost-effective cooperation on procurement and maintenance, and which has given considerable savings since its establishment. In addition, the majority of the Committee stresses that Nordic cooperation must be further developed in relation to all the other regional cooperation efforts – Barents cooperation, Baltic Sea cooperation and Arctic Councils. Environmental cooperation, including nuclear clean-up, is particularly emphasised. The Progress Party has extensive specific comments that I believe the party's representatives will explain. It is worth noting that the Progress Party is once again back in its old track that the Nordic Council in its current form should be laid down or reorganised. However, there are no concrete proposals from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. I note that the Progress Party says in its comments that they do not want ‘to put down Nordic cooperation’. It would otherwise be very demanding. Finally, on behalf of the Centre Party, let me return to the importance of Nordic cooperation anchoring at all levels of Nordic society. Exchange of experience between the Nordic peoples at individual level is a prerequisite for creating legitimacy and progress in work in the future. The Central Party, together with the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, therefore wishes to underline the importance of maintaining Nordic United World College in Fjaler. This unique school was opened in 1995 following decisions in this room and with the support of the Nordic governments. The school has 200 students from 80 countries, a large part of them from conflict areas. From the Norwegian side, it has traditionally been particularly important for the school to be a tool to promote Nordic values in terms of peace work and the dissemination of humanity. With next year's proposal for a government budget, the school is threatened with closure, which is deeply regrettable. The school is an example of Nordic cooperation with effect at individual level for each young person who creates and develops, and it is a good example of how the Nordic value community is an asset that deserves to be communicated. Finally, let me add that it is important that traditional cooperation in the Nordic context should not be neglected as new elements of cooperation are increasing. Nordic cultural cooperation, in a broad sense, must remain the cornerstone of cooperation. In a period of tightening up, it is important to work to ensure that the central place of culture in total Nordic cooperation is not weakened. Common history, common cultural heritage, common democratic traditions and a much-like social structure are the foundations for the establishment of formalised cooperation between the five Nordic countries and the maritime regions, which has lasted for more than 50 years. The structure of Nordic cooperation is an example of other regional cooperation. At the heart of this cooperation is the preservation of the rights of the North. Therefore, the follow-up to the Norrback report is very important. We must realise that people in the Nordic region have expectations of practical results, and it is not least we, parliamentarians and ministers, who are to ensure that expectations are met. Finally, as the rapporteur, I recommend that the committee's decision be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e269	Integration and cooperation between our Nordic countries have long traditions, and I think that sometimes things can be seen as a matter of course. Nevertheless, in the previous year, Nordic cooperation has largely focused on the reduction of border barriers between Nordic countries, because Nordic integration had not come as far as thought. We lived a long time in the belief that one could move freely between the Nordic countries, take a job in another Nordic country, take training in another Nordic country, etc., without this being a problem. However, this should not prove to be entirely correct, and this was fortunately revealed through the Norrback report. The report showed that there is a long way to the borderless Nordic region. The Nordic population encounters problems in everyday life in relation to different forms of cross-border activity in the Nordic region. Therefore, the most important tasks of Nordic cooperation continue to work to remove frontier barriers between our countries. This has been high on the agenda, and I hope that we will soon see a Nordic cooperation that works as intended, namely that it will benefit the citizens of the Nordic region. In this way, everyday life can be simplified for the tens of thousands of people who move or commute between Nordic countries each year, invest or are treated with disease, study in or visit another Nordic country. This work can be challenging, but at the same time it also makes it clear that the popular foundation of cooperation has been re-examined. It is therefore important to focus on this work in the future. Cooperation with neighbourhoods has been and is a very important dimension of Nordic cooperation. It is good that the Nordic Council of Ministers is committed to closer cooperation with the other regional organisations, such as the Barents Council, the Baltic Sea Council and the Arctic Council. Important work is being done in these organisations, not least on the environmental side, and it is important that one in Nordic cooperation coordinates the work done here. There have sometimes been many recommendations from the Nordic Council to the Nordic Council of Ministers. They have also been spread in perhaps too many areas and, as the Council of Ministers has also expressed to the Council, this has helped to make the Nordic Council priorities less clear. We are going to take this seriously, and we are going to work towards a clearer prioritisation of the issues. Finally, I would like to mention a specific matter which has also been raised by the committee in the vote. During the Nordic Council's anniversary session in 2002, a Nordic film prize was presented. This was on the initiative of the Social Democrats in the Nordic Council. I am pleased that the majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee is positive about the establishment of a permanent film prize. We know how important the other prizes of the Nordic Council are, and they hang high. In the Nordic region, we have a lot of good movies. An attractive Nordic film prize will be an inspiration for new initiatives. I am sure that a permanent film prize could also contribute to greater attention to Nordic films internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e282	Nordic cooperation faces about the opposite challenge of most other forms of international cooperation in which Norway participates. Most forms of international cooperation have modest support and modest commitment to grassroots. Sometimes there is also a pronounced scepticism about it in our country. For Nordic cooperation, the picture in Norway is exactly the same as that in the other Nordic countries. It's an almost unison backing up about the purpose of the grassroots. This means that Nordic cooperation is basically strong. At the same time, Nordic cooperation faces a significant problem, because this support for grassroots also means that people expect concrete results. And once formalized cooperation has existed for half a hundred years, it's clear that the expectations of the results are growing. The Norrback report and the follow-up to the Norrback report are in many ways a testament to the ability of the Nordic Council to meet these expectations. At the same time, the unison of Nordic cooperation is quite obvious a political capital on which it is possible to draw large turns if the Nordic cooperation bodies have a sufficiently high level of ambition and if the Nordic governments and the Nordic parliaments are able to follow up this level of ambition. I think there is reason to note, given the 50th anniversary celebration last year, that there is still a potential that has not been triggered and realised in Nordic cooperation. Now you can approach Nordic cooperation and the big message in two different perspectives. You can look at the individual issues that have been addressed in a neat and transparent way by the Government, what has been done in the past year, and what is the further objective. The rapporteur did so in a transparent and orderly manner, and we have no problems from the Right in joining in the presentation made by the rapporteur. The second is to use this as an incentive to raise your eyes and look a little bit more at the long lines back and forward for cooperation in the Nordic region. In the last decade, the North European image has changed quite fundamentally. What triggered this process of change was the great upheaval that took place when the Iron Curtain finally disappeared in Europe, and when the eastern part of Europe was given the opportunity to choose its own way like the countries of Western Europe. In the transition phase of the 1990s, the Nordic countries played an important role, both individually and through Nordic cooperation, in helping the Baltic countries to resume their former democratic traditions and become independent partners in European cooperation during an astonishingly short period of time. Today, we have come to the crucial turning point in this development in Northern Europe. From 2004 onwards, the three Baltic countries will be members of both NATO and the European Union. The only Member States in the Nordic Council that are formally in the same position are, as is well known, Denmark, but with not insignificant reservations. As of next year, therefore, the three Baltic countries will be more active participants in both defence policy cooperation and in general political cooperation in Europe than the Nordic countries are. It's a situation that none of us had the imagination to imagine ten years ago, or for that matter five years ago, but there's a situation we have to relate to and figure out how we're going to use. In this context, let me point out in brackets that I think it is very positive that the Nordic Council of Ministers has offered the Baltic countries membership of the Nordic Investment Bank, because I believe that this is an expression of recognition of the new situation. It is no longer the Nordic countries that offer to help and support the Baltic countries, but now we are partners on equal footing, and therefore it is natural to invite the Baltic countries also to participate in this cooperation on the same footing and with the same obligations as the Nordic countries do. For Norway, there is one development in this 10-year perspective that should focus on us in particular, and that is the shift of the centre of gravity of Nordic cooperation towards the east. More and more of the attention and political energy of Nordic cooperation is now concentrated on the Baltic Sea region and on our neighbouring areas on the eastern side of the Baltic Sea. It is not a problem in itself, but it is a problem for Norway if the weight is shifted unilaterally to that part of our own neighbourhood. Therefore, it is important to continue to follow up actively on the work that has now been done in the field of investigating the position of the West Nordic countries in Nordic cooperation. It is clearly in Norway's interest to be the Nordic Council member, based on both our geographical location and our political position, who is particularly concerned with maintaining the balance between the eastern and western dimensions of Nordic cooperation. At the Baltic Sea Conference, which took place in Oulo, Finland a few weeks ago, I had the pleasure of inviting the Baltic Sea Conference to Bergen the next autumn. It's a pedagogical challenge to explain that Bergen is a Baltic town. If you just know the conditions from the map, it's a significant challenge. On the other hand, if you have a little bit of historical knowledge, it's a completely self-evident thing. If you look at it historically, the Hanseatic League and trade and cultural cooperation in his day are one of the most important forms in the development of Northern Europe. It is a challenge for Norway to contribute to ensuring the potential of Nordic cooperation in terms of trade and economic conditions, in terms of the wider challenges of foreign policy and security policy, and in terms of conflict prevention and peacekeeping. There is a great deal of relaxation in the main lines of the setting. Let me just briefly comment on what has a controversial character. I have done my best to understand the special opinion of the Advance Party, but I am still in doubt as to whether I have succeeded. There are so many different elements that point in so many different directions, that it is very difficult to read out from the special opinion what the Progress Party really thinks about Nordic cooperation, except that there are too lower alcohol charges in Norway. It is a relatively narrow perspective on Nordic cooperation. If one seriously believes that Norway should unilaterally renounce the Helsinki Treaty, which is at the bottom of the organised Nordic cooperation, one should at least take the trouble to think through what one wants to put instead. At my discretion, it is directly irresponsible to suggest that all that has been built up over 50 years of laboriously organized cooperation in the Nordic region, with a pen stroke, is to be extinguished, without having a single concrete proposal on how to actually organise further Nordic cooperation. The note from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV on United World College may have some sympathy for its content. At my discretion, however, it is a misunderstanding to put this note into this position, because this has never been part of the formalised Nordic cooperation that takes place under the direction of the Nordic Council of Ministers, and that is what this big message is all about. The reality of the matter belongs, of course, to the budgetary procedure, and there we will come back to it in this room, but, as I said, in the attitude of the big message of Nordic cooperation, this point has nothing to do with it. One final comment: A proposal to set up a Nordic film prize has been presented in various bodies of the Nordic Council for a relatively long time, and there have been quite different views between the Nordic Council party groups on the timeliness of setting up such a prize. This case comes to a reality decision at the session here in Oslo in the very, very near future. I am convinced, for my part, that it is right to cut through and support this proposal, simply because the film is such an important cultural expression in today's Nordic societies. There is so much interesting happening within this only start in the Nordic countries that it is well-founded to set up such a price. Let me go back to the point that I started with. The great advantage of Nordic cooperation is the popular revival of the purpose in all Nordic countries. There is also the risk, because it creates a significant height of fall for those politicians responsible for translating this into practical measures that make the citizens of the Nordic countries really feel that we not only have a common labour market on paper, that we have a number of other common arrangements, but that this political cooperation is also able to remove the obstacles that people experience in their everyday lives, if they are dependent on moving between the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e314	The representative, Inge Wohnning, suggests that the Advance Party applies for lower taxes on alcohol. I haven't seen that I've written it in our comments, but it's a fact that it's one of the means to achieve more equality between Norway and the other Nordic countries in that area. However, we would point out that the Government considers it to be a priority for the continued and systematic reduction of border barriers between Nordic countries, although the Norwegian tax system bears the opposite profile. We believe, however, that this is too little done by the Norwegian side to coordinate, among other things. prices in relation to the other Nordic countries, leading to increased trade leakage to our neighbouring countries, leading to lower revenues, among others. the tourism industry, producers and trade in Norway. In our view, it is important to strengthen contacts between chambers of commerce, business organisations and other non-governmental economic actors in the region and to facilitate a profitable investment in Norway, which in our opinion is not reflected in the notification. We are pleased that Norway has taken on the host of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, which is held in Tromsø in May 2005, where, among other things, the Nordic dimension will be highlighted. It is important that Nordic cooperation is focused on conflict prevention and peace-keeping tasks and that the member countries of the OSCE become familiar with the problems and opportunities of the north. But it's our job to fix things in your own area. The Nordic welfare model is under pressure, and modernisation and coordination of the social tax and social security systems in the Nordic countries and Europe are necessary to facilitate movement between Nordic countries. This applies both to work and to housing. Substantial efforts will also be needed to rationalise some of the more than one hundred different councils, topics, committees, institutes, groups and others in order to make efforts in the Nordic region more effective. This will also make it easier for most people to know who's doing what and give an economic gain. Cooperation in the Nordic region on European issues does not, in the view of the Progress Party, have a formal status, but consists of informal consultation and exchange of information as necessary. So it's important to rationalize, to reduce the large number of so-called advice, and so they're going to gain more weight. The most fruitful Nordic cooperation takes place through the many informal contacts created via the private market in relation to trade and travel. Private organisations also have valuable cross-border contacts in the Nordic region. The same is true of our universities and colleges. The Progress Party has always considered that the Nordic Council should be set up or reorganised in its current form. Cooperation between Nordic governments should primarily take place within the EEA, the Council of Europe and, where appropriate, within the EU. Defence policy issues and cooperation shall mainly be developed through NATO. The Progress Party does not want to put a stop to Nordic cooperation, as it is claimed here, but believes that Nordic cooperation can take place completely independently of the functioning and existence of the Nordic Council, where economic costs have little or no measurable effect. Throughout the work of the various sectors of the Nordic Council, this is a body that works to a large extent with a clear anchoring of the policies pursued in the EU. As Norway is not a member of the EU, we are faced with a situation that is sidelined by the area of interest represented by the majority of Member States, and the restrictions on decisions taken are binding, that political decisions must comply with EU rules. However, we believe that extensive voluntary cooperation between organisations and institutions in the Nordic region is of great importance, and the emergence of the information society is one of the most important features of the Nordic region. It is important that the priority areas in the north are integrated into a common sustainable development strategy and that joint advice is provided, but this should not prevent the exploitation of state grounds. The Party considers that there are unclear criteria for how, for example: assistance funds for environmental measures shall be allocated. As a result, very economically strong companies have received Norwegian support for environmental measures that these companies could finance themselves. It is also important that there be a level playing field for each citizen in the Nordic countries, so that education from one country is also accepted in the other countries, and that the tax system is such that only one country is taxed. It must also be such that ambulances can move freely across borders with persons to hospitals or with medicines. The Progress Party is of the opinion that citizens of the Nordic countries expect easy work to be done, sick treatment, schooling and living in neighbouring countries. It will therefore be important to remove obstacles to this. The Progress Party believes that cooperation between the Nordic countries is natural, and especially at government level, but the results of many years of parliamentary cooperation in the Nordic Council seem to be small. There is today widespread parliamentary cooperation in many other European and international organisations, such as the United Nations. Council of Europe, OSCE, NATO and IPU. Finland’s ambassador to Norway, Ole Norrback, led a joint Nordic sample to look at border barriers between Nordic countries, and the group’s report clearly showed that there are still significant obstacles to all forms of movement of people and human activity between Nordic countries. In transport, there are also considerable differences between countries. Unfortunately, the road network, which is so important for business, is little priority in Norway and has a standard that favours transport on the Norwegian side. Bad standards also compromise the safety of road users. We are also increasingly concerned about the spread of terrorism in the world and believe that efforts to combat terrorism should be intensified and coordinated in the Nordic countries. The Progress Party is also of the opinion that Nordic cooperation should include measures to avoid the Nordic becoming a haven for those who aim to combat democratic development in their home country, including the use of instruments that harm civilians. The Progress Party believes that appropriations for defence in the Nordic countries are not in line with the challenges facing them and that Nordic cooperation should also include coordination in this area. We believe that the Nordic Food Safety Action Plan should also open up increased trade between the Nordic countries and the EU in food and agricultural products. Nordic countries should also cooperate more closely in combating cross-border pollution. The conclusion of the communication on Nordic cooperation must be that there is a positive development in this area, but there is still a lot of work to be done before you can be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e360	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e363	When the representative of Stensaker says so clearly here, as the representative of Wage also pointed out, that the Progress Party wants the Nordic Council to be laid down or reorganised, I have to ask: Does the Progress Party believe that the Helsinki Treaty should be cancelled? Has the Progress Party drawn up an overview of all other agreements based on Nordic cooperation and the Helsinki Agreement? Have you drawn up an overview of the consequences? I would like to ask for a clear answer as to whether the Treaty is to be terminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e368	What we're saying and saying is, first of all, there's too many advices and samples, and that this has to be able to be coordinated and co-ordinated, so that it gets better. The Nordic Council does not necessarily have to be as it is today, but can be reorganised in a way that makes cooperation in the Nordic region more effective and targeted. If this is done on the basis of the Treaty currently established by the Nordic Council, it does not segment our opinion that things can be done in a different way, and that things are not static, but that they can probably also change things in treaties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e373	The contributions of the representative, Stensaker, did not significantly clarify the policy of the Progress Party in this area, to put it mildly. He bothered that I had collected the alcohol fees, and I have to complain if they are not meant to be included in the general comment – which is actually the first in the long special opinion of the Progress Party – about the lack of coordination of prices with the other Nordic countries from the Norwegian side. I actually thought that the Progress Party was relatively heavily concerned with alcoholic goods in that context, but if that is not the case, I apologize. With regard to the question of what is meant by setting aside the Nordic Council, it must be possible to ask for an answer as to whether one has thought through what one would like to put in place if Norway were to unilaterally terminate the entire agreement base on which the Nordic Council has been based for 50 years. It can't be unreasonable to expect that a party that is so radical has thought through the options.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e380	The representative Inge Wohnning may be more concerned with alcohol prices than I am, but I didn't find it so important that I had it in the form of a note. However, it is clear that in relation to the trade leakage to Sweden, it is important that these charges are reduced in Norway. When the representative realized that what I said didn't make it clearer what we think about the Nordic Council, I'm going to try to explain it a little better. We want to simplify things. I understand that the representative for pay is used to things being complicated, that it should be difficult, so that most people don't understand it – that's good. We want to have it simplified, i.e. the current form of the Nordic Council should be changed. We don't necessarily want to replace the Nordic Council, but we want to change it to the benefit of the Nordic people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e387	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e391	SV is a party that absolutely wants strong Nordic cooperation. I'm not going to justify why it's important to have good Nordic cooperation, because there are more before me that have been thoroughly involved. I want to use this time to look a little bit ahead and ask us, have we organized this Nordic cooperation in a way that's best for the way we want to work, and for what we want to achieve? I would like to address two areas to which I believe that we should be absolutely critical. And when you're critical of something, it doesn't mean you're negative. I tend to say it so that one who is happy in his house is the first to replace both tablecloths and rotten windows and to brush the house when necessary, because one looks for weaknesses that must be dealt with, so that the house will also be a good house in the future. I believe the Nordic house has a number of rotten tables and a number of windows that need to be replaced, if we are to make this work well. Let me do two examples. Firstly, I believe that today we have too many projects related to our work, about 700 different projects around, and many of them are very small. This costs a lot of money for administration, and we've seen that some of these small projects have an administrative cost up to 50 pst. So that means that we're using a bunch of our resources for administration, which doesn't benefit our citizens. We in SV imagine that we can spend more money on Nordic cooperation, more money on such measures. But we want to go much more critically into what kind of projects and how we manage these projects. For example, this is the case with student exchanges and cultural exchanges, which I believe are important to strengthen, and which it is important to develop further, so that as many young people as possible, as well as others, can benefit from the exciting and good offers. But we have to narrow down the bet rooms we have, so we don't go too wide out. I agree with the Wage Representative that West-Nordic is one of the areas in which we might need to invest more resources. With regard to cooperation with Greenland, the Faeroe Islands and Iceland, I think it is unusually important that they get a greater share of the funding so that we can share both experience and assist in the work of these countries. That's why my first point of view is that we have to narrow down the areas of activity and simplify the administration. We like to spend more money, but we have to be willing to go critically into the way we distribute and manage these projects. The other area I want to grasp is the political dimension. I think it is very important that we, as politicians, also meet other politicians in the Nordic region. I believe that political issues, where we have exchanges of views, where we hear a little about the situation in the other countries where we are talking about them, are extremely important. But with the way we work in the Nordic Council today, we play a little too much store. We run and make proposals that go a round dance year after year, and we debate and discuss and vote, but it comes out very little of it. I think I should be so honest to say that the Nordic Council does not have the opportunity to decide that some of us might have wanted. There is no room to make decisions in the Nordic Council. So let's call a spade and say OK, then we'll use the political arena for exchanges and to get experience from good colleagues in the other Nordic countries. Then I think we get a political job that is much more consistent with the realities and not nearly a game, which I feel that many of these proposals, the recommendations and everything that goes around today, are, as it gets very, very little out of, that actually create frustrations, and that create a lot of work for a lot of people. We're also spending a lot of resources on it. In the end, I just want to signal that SV could actually have intended to upgrade the work with the Nordic Council and spend more resources and more time on it. But I think that the track we're in relative to spreading too many projects and having a very demanding administration around them, and that we act as if we're a decision-making body, with a number of proposals that are constantly going around dancing, is a development we have to get out of. Then we have to use the resources on what is realistic, which will lead to much better Nordic cooperation, in our opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e410	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e413	Of course, it is not difficult to share Ryan’s general view on the relationship between administrative costs and political substance. And it is true, of course, that all cooperation organisations that have existed over time should review the portfolio critically and see what opportunities there are for simplification and efficiency. At that point, we're generally in agreement. But what I asked to speak for was that I listened with interest to Ryan's view of the Council's general activities. I understood it almost as if he regretted that the Nordic Council, as a parliamentary assembly, could not take decisions through majority decisions that bind national parliaments and governments of each country. It is such an alarming view that I must almost ask to be clarified if that is what he meant. Otherwise, it is my experience that the party grouping in the Nordic Council that produces most of the member proposals, which cause the round dance that Ryan claimed, is the left-wing socialist group.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e424	I can reassure the representative Wohnning that SV has not intended to propose a Nordic Union, where we decide in the Nordic Council. It's never been our opinion. But I'm saying that we have an organization like you're going to make that kind of decisions. I think it would have been appropriate to use parliamentary resources in a different way than to have a form similar to that of national Parliaments. Because it's not a decision-making body. We're a council, and I think the way we've organized ourselves is a little too similar to the way you're organized in the different national parliaments. That's what was my appeal point. I have no ambition to propose a Nordic Union where we become one country – at least not in this round.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e431	It might be coming? Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e436	The big message of the day can be read in two ways. It can be read as an account of Norway’s work in the Presidency’s last year, but it can also be read as drawing up some lines of future Nordic cooperation. I guess that's actually the last perspective that I think is the most interesting. After two years in the Nordic Council, I have had some experience. The representative Ryan was concerned that there is no room for political decisions. He will focus more on the exchanges of views in political cooperation. I also have the experience that the ambitions we can have, and the results we achieve, are actually determined by those who want least in Nordic cooperation. This is an incredible cross of thought, but we can see that, for example. in the meeting of ministers at the Nordic Council of Ministers, and we also see it in the will to spend money and resources on Nordic cooperation. We need to make demands for effective use, but we also need to recognise that if we want to achieve results in Nordic cooperation, we also need to be willing to use financial resources to get the results we want. Another experience that I've had over these two years is that the Nordics, as a concept and organisational unit, are changing. We pay a lot of attention to close-up cooperation. That's good, and that's important. It is also natural that the participating countries are concerned with what is closest. The impact has already been pointed out by several representatives. There is a great deal of attention to Baltic Sea cooperation. We are now talking about the Nordics and the Baltics, the 5+3 model, and in a European context it is important. But I also experience a Denmark that looks incredibly much south of Europe, and I experience a West-Nordic that is currently engaged in developing internal cooperation relations with the focus on Arctic cooperation. But precisely in such a situation, where there is a focus on the extremes, we must not forget to focus on the nucleus and what we have in common in the Nordic region. We need to integrate east and west. That is why I feel that if this integration fails, there is one area that will lose, and it will be West-Nordic. That is what we can call the weakest region in the Nordic region. We have to align our instruments in such a way that we prevent the focus from moving out of the Nordic region. This is why language skills in schools become important, cultural cooperation, youth exchanges, research cooperation, and we also need Nordic institutions. And we have to remember to solve the internal Nordic challenges. There are two important challenges in the coming years. More have been inside of them. The first is that we have to solve the problem of border barriers in the Nordic region. I want to point out two challenges in this which I think we should have as our goal of solving. Firstly, we need to make the common labour market in the Nordic countries work for everyone who lives in the Nordic countries – it also includes third-country nationals with permanent residence in the Nordic countries. This is a resource in our labour market that should be used absolutely. The second is, of course, the development of the Nordic region as a common educational region with mutual recognition of education and training. Here I expect that in the case of border barriers, we will see concrete results at the Oslo session in a few weeks' time, and that governments there will follow up with concrete measures. The second challenge we are facing is to coordinate Nordic positions on European processes. I feel that the Nordic agenda is very similar to the EU agenda. We see that Nordic laws and regulations are designed to a large extent within the framework of the EU and the EEA. It is therefore necessary to identify common interests and coordinate positions on the basis, inter alia, of: the Nordic welfare model. We therefore also need greater dialogue between Nordic parliamentarians about this, not only for those who are engaged in the Nordic Council, but for those who are actually parliamentarians in general, also at the level of the trade committee in this House. Areas in which we can have common positions can be regional policy, equality, consumer policy, food security, the fight against organised crime – just to mention something. In the setting today, the Progress Party stands out, and I have to say that I am very surprised at the comment there. Several have been concerned about whether they overlook the consequences of possibly setting aside the Nordic Council. But what surprises me even more is that they do not see Nordic cooperation as a framework for promoting Norwegian interests in European policy. The Nordic region is the region where alliances can be the easiest to build, to take care of Norwegian interests. Besides, we have a cultural community, and we have equal social systems. This makes the political solutions that we prefer quickly become very similar. It surprises me that you can't see that here there are opportunities for alliance construction. I also believe that to care for and develop this community we need institutions, and we need cooperatives. The Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council asked the Government for feedback on some specific recommendations from the Nordic Council. This is what the Government responded to in the big news. I'm glad, and I want to thank you for that. We'll have more things to get back to in Stortinget as well. An area where the specific follow-up is lacking is the issue of a residence permit for victims of ‘trafficking’. Here it is said from the Government that the Foreign Law Committee is working on it. From my point of view and from the point of view of the work of the Nordic Council, it is important to stress that we must recognise the need to protect those victims. That must be the starting point for the legislative work in the government, and also in the Grand Duchy, when we get it treated. Furthermore, I see in the position that the Foreign Affairs Committee asks us in the delegation to work towards a clearer prioritisation of matters and a more focused dialogue between the Council and the Council of Ministers. I have a lot of understanding of that call, and I think that everyone who is involved in it is going to think well through it. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the Council actually has a right of initiative in dealing with issues of Nordic interest. I would like to stress that it is important to have that right of initiative. We need parliamentarians who can also be drivers of Nordic cooperation. I have noticed that it is the Council of Ministers' side that has first and foremost highlighted the problem in the initiatives of parliamentarians. I don't see it as a problem, rather as a challenge that we should catch up to. My response to the setting at that point is that I don't want to put restrictions on the engagement, but would like to encourage more consideration of some suggestions, and to stronger priorities of matters. Furthermore, I think it is incredibly important to further develop the dialogue as a form of cooperation between parliamentarians and the government side.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e464	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e467	The representative Lyngstad was amazed that the Progress Party will bring the Nordic Council down – he was not the only one today. I have to repeat it again: as the Nordic Council is organised today, I think it can be done in a different and better way by reorganising the Nordic Council. I have no faith that the Nordic Council is the only forum that can take care of Norwegian interests. And that the Progress Party does not see the opportunities for the Nordic Council – well, you have other forums that can take care of Norwegian interests. I think it's as good an opportunity as the Nordic Council has today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e479	In both a European and a global architecture, we have many complementary organisations. I actually feel that the Nordic Council has the opportunity to play a role because it can form the starting point for coordination within a region, a northern European region. I think we'll find a lot of common points there. It is this starting point that makes me think it will also be easier to promote Norwegian views there, rather than that we automatically believe that we are finding alliance partners in southern Europe. We find them there in individual cases, but I think it's actually easier to find many alliance partners in our neighbourhoods. I therefore believe that the Nordic platform can help promote the Norwegian view.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e484	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e488	Nordic cooperation and new cooperation arrangements in our neighbourhoods are developing slowly but surely. That's all right – that's how it has to meet Christopher Stensaker's intentions about a Nordic Council during the change. It's not cemented, and it's not a mammoth. Perhaps it is because the EU is becoming an increasingly important player in the Nordic region, that there is still a need for new interventions to safeguard Norwegian and Western Nordic interests in some important areas. The coastal party believes that there is a need for fisheries policy cooperation between Norway, Iceland, the Faeroe Islands and Greenland and associated cooperation with Russia. Only through formal cooperation at government level can these countries secure control of the huge fishing resources in the Norwegian Sea. Also, in the case of whaling and the capture of other marine mammals, the Western Nordic countries have common interests. We will therefore challenge the Minister for Fisheries to take a concrete new initiative towards the other Western Nordic countries in order to achieve such government cooperation. It will mean a new giver for the western Nordic dimension of Nordic cooperation. The joint Nordic fisheries cooperation is characterised by the fact that Sweden, Finland and Denmark no longer function as independent States in international fisheries negotiations. In fisheries negotiations, the EU is taking the lead on behalf of the EU Member States. There is little doubt that the EU and the Western Nordic countries have strongly conflicting interests in the allocation of fishing quotas in the Norwegian Sea. The participation of the Nordic countries in Schengen has led to the closure of the common foreign and security policy against the EU. This has helped to ensure that immigration into Norway has come out of control. The number of groundless asylum applications has increased, and it is expected that there will be significant illegal immigration and the spread of cross-border crime, particularly across the Swedish border. Through the Schengen SIS registry, Norway can obtain information on persons who have previously applied for asylum in other Schengen countries. This information could be provided to Norway through Interpol if we were not in Schengen. However, asylum seekers who have not applied for asylum in other Schengen countries and who do not wish to give their own identity and travel route after arrival in Norway create major problems for Norwegian authorities. There is little evidence that police cooperation in Schengen is able to address such issues. The Coastal Party has therefore proposed the introduction of border control against Schengen. Such a measure would end the passport union between Norway and the other Nordic countries, but we think it is better to have an open identity check at the border than to bet on strong surveillance within the country. It has been shown that border control against Russia is working well. It has not led to any cooperation problems between Norway and Russia. The joint Nordic work on other forms of border barriers may be continued, even if Norway establishes border controls on the identity of persons. We must take it inward that Nordic cooperation will necessarily be influenced by the fact that parts of the Nordic region are part of the EU. The Coastal Party cannot accept EU adjustments that go across our national interests. At the last annual meeting of the IWC, it was decided that the IWC should form an environmental protection organisation. We're spending a lot of money on being in the IWC. It's strange then to witness that you don't move the management of marine mammals into NAMMCO. NAMMCO is an organisation established in the Nordic region, to which the Minister for Fisheries in due course took the initiative. So we can't keep using the huge sums in an international organization that is really an environmental protection organisation. We are transferring large sums to the protest industry, which is directly countering Norwegian policy, and it is this committee that approves it. It's weird to listen to Per Wage. He was concerned about the Baltic Sea, and about Norway looking east. But westward was not mentioned in one word. We're over here, over an area that is seven times our land area. What do we get into the Baltic Sea? Nothing. We have an agreement to fish cod there. It's strange to hear this. Although marine mammals play a major role in the west — seven times our land area — multi-racial research has been put on ice. Sel and whales' importance to the ecosystem is not emphasised. The marine mammals eat fish. Many marine mammals eat a lot of fish, they don't eat potatoes. It is important for fisheries, and it is important for what we can take out. We're in Nordic cooperation, and we're going to get together here. It's nice to be a witness to this. I've been to IWC meetings myself. Many times I have even received leave from Stortinget. It is strange that the worst countries in the IWC – I don’t want to say the worst, but perhaps some of the worst – are just Finland and Sweden, and it goes on marine mammals. How could it be like that? I believe that although the Nordic Council cannot reach a decision, the Norwegian parliamentarians who meet at the Nordic Council can at least end the discrimination that is taking place from Finland and Sweden. We cannot live with it while transferring large sums to the protest industry, which is countering the policy that we in this Chamber are in favour of. So I would recommend to those parliamentarians that they take this up in the Nordic Council. We cannot continue to feel this way that Finland and Sweden are countering Norwegian interests. Then the Nordic Council has to reorganize, they're going by half on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e511	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e514	Just for the sake of order: as a Westerner, I don't want to sit on myself that I'm too east-oriented. I must therefore be allowed to make it clear to Mr Bastesen that the whole point of that part of my contribution was to point to the danger of Nordic cooperation becoming too concentrated on the Baltic Sea and the Baltic Sea region, and that we in Norway have a special obligation to ensure that the balance between the western and the eastern dimensions of Nordic cooperation is maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e519	I thank you for the clarification, and thank you very much to Per Wage for coming to the pulpit and clarifying. But my point was that we were looking too little westward. We don't see enough of those resources. We are a major force in terms of resources in the sea westwards, and I agree with Per Wage that we see too much eastwards. I must be allowed to say right away, even though it is a little out of the question, that the party to which Wohnung belongs has every opportunity in the Judicial Committee to go in for new rescue helicopters. We're going to have the best in the helicopter case on the market, and EH 101 will be the best. They have chosen it in Denmark, and they have chosen it in Portugal, and why should we not be able to choose it as a port?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e526	The President is certain that the thanks were addressed to the Vice President of the Grand Duchy, Inge Wohnung, and not to Bishop Per Wohnung.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e529	Yes, thank you, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e534	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e537	The attitude of the Foreign Affairs Committee I have read with interest and joy, and I can see that the Nordic work of the Government has broad support in Stortinget. Nordic cooperation has also been changing ever since the end of the Cold War, both to relate to and to characterize the changing environment. Cooperation has demonstrated in these years the capacity for innovation and further development, and plays an important role in a wide range of contexts, including: The rapporteur-in-chief pointed out. Cooperation is constantly changing, especially in relation to the everyday needs of the Nordic population and the international community. The North thus strengthens both its popular and democratic foundation and its international function. I believe that, as several speakers have also stressed in the debate, we have a good balance between these two dimensions of Nordic cooperation: the everyday needs of the inhabitants and international cooperation. In the daily dimension, the change is most pronounced in border barriers between Nordic countries. The Swedish Presidency has Nordic integration as its foremost concern. This is not in any way a new question, or a new topic, in Nordic cooperation, and there have been many and large investigations on the issue in the Nordic region. However, it has often not been possible to move away from problem identification to create actions to remove the specific barriers that people face. That is what we have now put on the agenda, that is what we are now working on, not least because it has popular support and is a requirement for Nordic cooperation. The Finnish Presidency in 2001 focused on the Nordic individual, the Norwegian Presidency in 2002 received the Norrback report and launched the follow-up, and this year’s Swedish Presidency prioritises integration. It is positive to note that the active Nordic Presidency obviously provides for a combination of renewal and continuity that serves the Nordic region well. In the work of the Swedish Presidency, I would like to highlight two things in particular: the appointment of former Danish Prime Minister Poul Schlüter as a special representative for the reduction of Nordic border barriers has shown and will prove to be very useful. Schlüter has opened many political doors, both because he is a political size, and because he is a credible external actor who gets to borrow our ear in a way that it would not have been possible to do otherwise. This has been crucial in order to give the necessary political attention to cross-border cooperation. It will also be included in the Council's session in Oslo. So it'll be at the heart of the debate, like, among other things. The representative called for Lyngstad. Secondly, the Swedish Presidency has shown the importance of thinking holistically, by integrating bilateral and joint nordic work to remove frontier barriers. These two angles of incidence complement each other, give each other valuable experience and contribute to the total dynamics. On the Norwegian side, we have placed great emphasis on contributing to the Nordic cross-border cooperation, including with national measures. Therefore, the Government has decided that when new legislative proposals are submitted to the Stortinget, it shall be sought, as far as relevant and practical, to incorporate a reference to the laws of other Nordic countries in this area. Information shall also be sought on the possible consequences of the legislative proposal for relations with other Nordic countries. And the government is going to give systematic priority to the follow-up to the Norrback report. In this way, the Government has provided a good basis for avoiding new Nordic border barriers, and we have, of course, encouraged the other countries to consider similar measures. In addition, Poul Schlüter has been given the opportunity to take political leadership in the departments concerned here in Norway. There has been a good and open dialogue, and I think we have come a long way in the Norwegian political anchoring of reducing border barriers. In addition, I would like to mention that the Nordic Association is conducting several cross-sectoral regional seminars this year to inform the public agencies concerned about the Nordic agreement. This is important in order to enhance the competence and awareness of the public representatives of the border barriers or the applicable law that our citizens meet in the Nordic space. Information may be the most important single factor in reducing frontier barriers. And it's about getting the knowledge of the current legislation out to our citizens. Here too, the Nordic Association makes a great effort, also by adding the information service Hallo Norden to their offices in the individual Nordic countries. Hello The North should show the way to the right information for our citizens when they, for example, shall work, study, seek work or move to another Nordic country. Both centrally and national Hallo Norden offices will be provided with new means of marketing and increased staffing. In addition, the Council of Ministers is in the process of establishing a systematic dialogue with other regional information services with a view to concrete cooperation. In other words, the piece of information is about to find its shape. The aim of all of this is to avoid new and old barriers to the borders that undermine people's quality of life and social activities. Then we have to accept that this work often requires time and patience, while also showing impatience in solving concrete obstacles to the borders. In multinational cooperation, for many reasons, there will be some issues that we simply cannot solve. It's also important to take inwards, and we have to accept that. We therefore need to address the issues that there is reason to believe that we can find a solution to them without playing time and forces on desertless attacks in the Nordic countries – we should call it – windmills. But I fully agree with the representative of Wage that we need to achieve concrete results quickly and get an improvement in the Nordic simplification for most people, because that is something the North people expect us to do. Nordic cooperation is also changing in relation to the world around us. The Ministers for Cooperation have been working on issues in this area all year round, and we have joined the document «International Nordic – Nordic cooperation in a European framework». The document summarises our discussions and provides guidelines for the future cooperation of the Nordic Council of Ministers with the outside world. This will also be a theme for the next session in Oslo. The guidelines do not already replace approved strategies and plans — such as the neighbourhood strategy — but provide guidance on which the various parts of the Council of Ministers system will continue to work, based on their own situation and dialogue with, for example, the Baltic countries, North-West Russia, the EU, the other Nordic regional councils and the West-Nordic countries. The document was submitted to the Nordic Council earlier this autumn as part of the Council of Ministers' report on Nordic cooperation in the EU in 2002–2003. The guidelines take us a little further in terms of the neighbourhoods, both Baltic countries and North-West Russia. Already in the neighbourhood strategy of 2000, it was stated that there will be more equivalent cooperation and regular cooperation towards the Baltic countries, while the more traditional neighbourhood cooperation with North-West Russia will be strengthened. With regard to the Baltic countries, the challenge is now to strengthen political cooperation with the three future EU and EEA members. It will also mean the identification of concrete partnerships based on common Nordic-Baltic priorities and joint financing. Baltic participation in Nordic institutions is also up-to-date, and finance ministers are now examining, at the request of the Nordic Prime Ministers, the prerequisites for a Baltic membership of the Nordic Investment Bank. I am pleased with the strong support given by the representative in his statement. The basis for Nordic-Baltic cooperation will vary considerably from area to area, and it will be a matter of finding pragmatic and flexible forms of cooperation that can ensure this. It obviously requires a broad and active dialogue with our Baltic partners. In addition, an evaluation of the neighbourhood programme will also be carried out in 2004. At the same time, funds should be released for increased investment in North-West Russia, which is itself a challenge in the Council of Ministers’ tight and tied budget. The resources shall be used in a more defined and focused manner, so that the resources give greater eligibility where they are used. Thematically, it can probably mean increased environmental and sustainable development, exchange and education cooperation, trafficking in human beings and cross-border regional cooperation. Geographically, this will mean a stronger concentration in border regions towards the North and in Kaliningrad. As far as Kaliningrad is concerned, Russia has not yet provided the green light for setting up a Nordic Information Office to launch and operate a Nordic programme in the area. However, the Council of Ministers is continuing an active dialogue with the Russian authorities on this matter. The representative of Arnesen underlined the desire for close cooperation with the other Nordic regional councils. The Council of Ministers has also taken initiatives to increase cooperation with the other regional Nordic Councils, i.e. The Barents Council, the Baltic Council and the Arctic Council. Both the participation of the Nordic countries in these Councils and our joint agreement to the northern dimension of the EU bind us together and make it natural for the Council of Ministers to have a close dialogue and concrete cooperation with the other regional councils. It is worth noting that the Nordic Council of Ministers is an attractive partner in terms of its unique situation, not least with a significant programme budget. In the Arctic Council, the Council of Ministers has contributed to the financing of several activities, in particular in the field of research, and has its own Arctic cooperation programme. In the Baltic Sea Council, I would like to highlight cooperation in the field of energy, BASREC, where seven of the eleven countries in the Baltic Sea region signed on 29 September an agreement establishing the region as a testing area for the Kyoto Protocol's flexible mechanisms. The agreement has thus entered into force. The Barents Council and the Council of Ministers have still unused their potential, taking into account their many common priorities, and the Norwegian two-year Presidency of the Barents Council from October this year will be in favour of enhanced cooperation. So a few words at last about the cooperation in the West Nordic region and with the coastal areas of our western neighbours: last year the Norwegian Presidency took the initiative of a separate investigation into this cooperation to give it a boost and a clearer strategic focus. The committee's investigation is an interesting evidence that it is both desirable and already a broad cooperation. With this investigation and a recommendation from the Nordic Council as the starting point, West-North is on the agenda for the session here in Oslo, which will give cooperation another boost, and I hope that many of the representatives will contribute to that debate. From my point of view, I attach great importance to increasing our focus on Western-Nordic and Western-Nordic neighbourhoods. On the part of the Council of Ministers, the assessments of the follow-up to the investigation are in full swing, not least by the incoming Icelandic Presidency, which will take over from next year. It will also be interesting to see how the emerging cooperation with the neighbouring regions of the Nordic countries in the west can be developed. We have a lot in common with Scots, Canadians and other neighbours in the west. In my opinion, Vest-Norden brings Nordic cooperation a very special view that enriches the whole Nordic region, and it is about balancing our focus both eastwards and westwards. We will undoubtedly confirm that during next year's Icelandic Presidency, which will be a characteristic focus on nature's and human resources. I take with me the views expressed during the debate, and will take them into account both in the further work and not least in relation to the Nordic Council meeting in Oslo in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e586	I will take the floor in this debate to comment on a specific issue developed in regional cooperation in the north, namely Arctic University. Arctic University is a virtual university based on extensive use of information technology and was established in 2002. Arctic University is a cooperation between institutions, and there are about 60 educational institutions in the Arctic that are currently participating in this cooperation. Many Norwegian institutions are involved, for example: University of Tromsø. Arctic University has come to a good start on its work. Over 100 students have attended Arctic studies, most of them via the Internet. Internet-based classrooms have also been developed, and students from Siberia, via the Nordic and Greenland to Alaska participate in common classes. The origin of Arctic University is found in the Arctic Council, the initiative is taken there. The Arctic Council has decided that this should be one of the projects to be envisaged and implemented. And at the latest when the Council of Ministers met in Inari in October 2002, the Foreign Ministers gave clear support to the project, they praised the positive process involved, and committed themselves to working to ensure that the authorities, i.e. the countries concerned, secure funding for the project. As a member of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee of the Storting, I have committed myself to this matter and considered it important to follow up what several Norwegian foreign ministers have been supporting for some years. Arctic University has been through a development phase. It has been financed mainly by participating educational institutions as well as by Canada and Finland. It must be said that the director is Norwegian, is employed in Norway, has his office in Norway, but has been funded from Finland. Now the Arctic University is at a stage where permanent funding for what is to be the participation of the participating States must be put in place. It shall continue to be such that most of the costs are borne by the educational institutions, and external funding shall also be sought in funds, in the EU and in the Nordic Council of Ministers. Then we got into the somewhat troubling situation from the Norwegian side that it per. Today's date is no explanation of how we from Norway are going to discharge our obligations to finance our share in the Arctic University. Both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have participated in project funding during the project phase, while the situation is now such that the Ministry of Education has rejected the request from the Management Board to submit the Norwegian share of sustainable co-financing. I think this is a little flatter situation for Norway to have come in. It's per. today's date no clarification on how our co-financing will be settled from 1 January, and this is therefore a matter that Norwegian Governments and Foreign Ministers through the Arctic Council have helped to raise. The negative attitude of the Government through the submitted budgets and its refusal to apply from the Arctic University also seems to me to be inconvenient to the fact that Norway wants to pursue a more active policy in this area, cf. the establishment of the Northern Region Committee and the Presidency of the Barents Council of Norway. I therefore believe that there must be a solution to this matter. If the Government does not want to contribute to this, it is my opinion that the Stortinget must ensure that for years, Norwegian support to the Arctic University is also followed up in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e607	The Nordic Council Bureau has launched a debate and a process to develop and renew Nordic parliamentary cooperation in a new Europe. It is a fully consistent view that the EU's enlargement and the Nordic countries' EU/EEA relations pose very special challenges for Nordic cooperation in the future. Nordic parliamentary cooperation needs to be further developed so that the Nordic Council becomes a competent and active player who can play a constructive role in Nordic policy and in international cooperation forums. Nordic cooperation will be marginalised if we do not actively address the changing conditions in the environment, such as increasing globalisation and development in Europe and in our own northern region. First of all, we need to work together more closely within the Nordic region, while keeping more systematic track of the EU system agenda in order to assess what issues it would be appropriate to put on the agenda of the Nordic Council. We constantly experience being caught on the bed by the EU system. It is enough to refer to our heated debate on the differentiated employer’s fee. In retrospect, it is impossible to get support from our Nordic partners for our fight – a battle that they have already lost. Such an early warning system under the auspices of the Nordic Council, combined with a coordinated Nordic policy approach to EU decision-making processes, will bring us a long step further to the challenges of a changing Europe. We need to be more able to conduct Nordic discussions and act together before decisions are taken in the EU/EEA system. It is a very widespread belief that the reputation of Nordic cooperation depends on the functioning of the Nordic model and can indicate results. Not least outside the Nordic region, e.g. in our cooperation with the Baltic countries, it is essential for the Nordic countries to have the impact of our political ideas and values that we can show positive results within. Active participation in the EU/EEA processes also demands that we in the Nordic region have our affairs in order. Therefore, the work on removing border barriers in the Nordic region can be seen as the Nordic region’s strategy to meet the major challenge of internationalisation and globalisation of markets, namely to develop a good, competitive and well-functioning Nordic market. This means that the follow-up to the Norrback report and the removal of border barriers in the Nordic region will be the foundation of Nordic cooperation for a very long time to come. The Swedish Presidency has appointed former Danish Prime Minister Poul Schlüter as a special representative for the removal of border barriers in the Nordic region. Poul Schlüter will report at the Nordic Council in Oslo in the near future, according to his mandate. In the Christian People's Party, we look forward to a constructive debate on the removal of border barriers at the session, and it will be crucial for us in Norway to clear our table in this area. Firstly, it means that we are willing to correct the obstacles that still exist today. An example is the barriers in the Nordic labour market. Several have been mentioned earlier in the debate. But maybe it's just as important that we look at our neighbours in the Nordic region when we make important decisions for the future. We have to be careful not to make decisions in this room, because of lack of knowledge, that build new barriers in the Nordic region. It is therefore gratifying that initiatives have been taken to provide us with information on what other legislation in the Nordic region might be like in any case of doubt. Many exciting border regions are working to clear the way for problems in Nordic cooperation. A Finnish-Norwegian project between municipalities along the north border aims to contribute to the reduction of structural barriers in cross-border trade. Similarly, we could have shown many exciting projects going on between the different border regions in the Nordic region to address and reduce border barriers. The challenge for Nordic cooperation in a globalised era, with a strong enlargement of the EU, must be to strengthen the inter-Nordic dialogue on international and, in particular, European issues. This is particularly true of the Nordic countries' relations with the three Baltic countries, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, our relationship with North-West Russia and, in particular, with Norway, our relationship with the West, Iceland, Greenland and the Faeroe Islands. I agree here with what the representative Inge Wohnning said in this regard. West-North is especially important to us. The sea and the ocean resources are a special common interest to the whole of the Nordic region and to our Western neighbours. The sea is a cohesive factor in the problems and opportunities that inevitably call for cross-border and cross-sectoral cooperation. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about Barents' cooperation. Barent cooperation is particularly important for North Norway. On the part of the Government, it has been suggested that Nordic, Troms and Finnmark county municipalities can play a very active role in Barents cooperation. The Barents Secretariat has considerable expertise in North-West Russia and a comprehensive contact network. Overall, Barents cooperation appears to be of considerable breadth and competence. A comprehensive cooperation system is in place in a region rich in different natural resources. At a time of great challenges for the population of northern Norway, it is very important that cooperation in the Barents region be continued and given priority. Cooperation is at the heart of the development of a stronger business. Improvements in the Russian economy and changes in economic policy have led to increased interest in trade and investment. A Russian oil adventure in the Barents Sea is under way, with great opportunities for Nordic business to participate. But perhaps the most important of all is the competence in the environment and health and the demands of the Nordic countries in these areas, in cooperation. It concerns the safety of oil transport, nuclear safety and the clean-up of nuclear waste, the control of infectious diseases and the health care of mothers and children. After ten years, many good results have been achieved in Barents' cooperation, and Barents' cooperation, in my opinion, has the future ahead on the new Nordic agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e637	I would like to draw attention to a note in the position that Åslaug Haga referred to regarding Nordic United World College in Fjaler in the West. The school is a Nordic cooperation project that was launched by the Labour Party Government with Gro Harlem Brundtland in collaboration with the governments of Sweden, Finland and Denmark. The school has students from 80 different countries, where a large proportion of students actually come from conflict areas, from refugee camps, from SOS towns and other underprivileged areas. 63 pst. from Norway, 15 p.m. from Sweden, 8 p.m. from Denmark and 5 pst. from Finland. This joint Nordic project, which has actually been very successful, is at risk, as the comment in the committee setting shows. And it's strange to understand, because the school has fulfilled all of the Storting's expectations and assumptions in terms of cost level, management and academic results. Students of the school are an important tool in Norway in the fight against racism and as intermediaries of international solidarity and knowledge between people. Students and management of the school work for and participate in humanitarian projects abroad in cooperation with the Norwegian Foreign Service and in cooperation with the Red Cross, the SOS Children’s Towns and the Peace Corps, among others. In fact, we in the Central Party do not understand the Government’s arguments that the school is not important enough, either as a Nordic cooperation project or as an important contribution from Norway – we who otherwise aim to be the foremost in the issue of international solidarity, and to be bridge builders between people and nations in conflict. It is embarrassing that the Government chooses to cut this aid, which will in fact lead to the loss of the support of the other Nordic countries. I want to refer to the Budget-inner. S. No 12 for 2002-2003, where a joint committee says: «The appropriations allocated to the school are, in the Committee's view, unsatisfactory and the Committee is concerned with the need to seek a more long-term and stable financial framework.» And then it comes a little bit later in the same comment: ‘The Committee asks the Government to contact the other Nordic countries to discuss the financing of the Nordic United World College of Red Cross in the future.’ – precisely with a view to stable funding for this school. And my question to the Council of State is, What has the Government done about this? Has the government contacted the three other Nordic governments to seek a stable future for Nordic United World College?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e663	I'll try to comment on some of the issues and specific issues that have been addressed. Let me first comment on the last question, about United World College. It is such that it has always been difficult to ensure a Nordic funding of the college, and the government and changing governments have been busy ensuring it. Norway has therefore been alone in providing operating support, while Sweden has participated with scholarships for some students. In addition, the college has had a number of private sponsors. We have received signals that Sweden is considering withdrawing its support unless Denmark and Finland also contribute. There is a considerable pressure in this way. On the other hand, the institution, the college, has no formal link with the Nordic Council of Ministers. It is the case that the case lies below the Minister of Education and Research and is part of the examination of the budget of the year. I am not going to intervene in the budgetary procedure here, but I take with me the views that have come from several speakers on this topic, and what is in the position, and pass it on to the Minister for Education and Research. As I said, this will be a budgetary issue, as I understand it. The same applies to the question raised by the representative of Solberg regarding the Arctic University. I showed in my speech a closer cooperation between the Council of Ministers and the Arctic Council, and the representative Solberg indicated that the idea of Arctic University was an initiative of the Arctic Council. One has undergone a development phase, and one is now, as described by her, in a new phase where long-term funding is needed. It is the case that the budget is in the Grand Duchy for consideration. It could be a theme there. But here, too, I am taking the views further into the Government and into the Minister of Education and Research. The last topic I was going to comment on was the one that Mr Bastesen raised, linked to the wish that the Minister for Fisheries should take the initiative of a Western-Nordic joint government cooperation on fisheries policy. First of all, it is to say that there is considerable cooperation, while one must not overlook, which I felt that the representative Bastisen made significant, that there are strongly conflicting interests in Nordic and Norwegian cooperation both in terms of resource management – I can only point to the last ten years of development in this way both in the Barents Sea and elsewhere – and not least the allocation of resources. I don't think one should have a simplified view of the possibilities for achieving a common Western-Nordic policy and a common goal. I just want to refer to the negotiations that have gone over several years in the case of NVG fire, in the case of coal, and in the case of mackerel. The three fishing teams clearly show that joint government cooperation is a little further ahead. But both in terms of resource allocation and resource management and in terms of the management of marine mammals and the international perception there, we have close and good dialogue. Among other things, I have to: next week – Monday and Tuesday – have met in Iceland with my colleague there. We will discuss all these issues, not least the future joint impact on ecosystem management and marine mammals management.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e678	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 4 and 5 are dealt with as a whole – and considered adopted. [[See page 201]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e707	Any European State may become a member of the Council of Europe if it accepts the principles of the rule of law and guarantees human rights and guarantees fundamental freedoms for all those under its jurisdiction. The Council of Europe contributes to the consolidation of democratic stability in Europe by supporting political, legislative and constitutional reforms. These are values that we in Norway regard as very important. That is why we also consider the work of the Council of Europe to be very important. The Council of Europe also wants to raise awareness and support the development of Europe's cultural identity and diversity. An important task for the Council is to find solutions to problems facing European society, such as discrimination against minorities, environmental degradation, intolerance, drug traffic and organised crime. Today there are 45 Member States in the Council of Europe. That means that the vision of a pan-European organisation based on common values is almost complete. After admission of Serbia and Montenegro, only Monaco and Belarus are outside. The examination of Belarus's application has been suspended because the country currently lacks respect for the rule of law, human rights and democratic systems. The Committee stresses that the Council of Europe has a responsibility to assist and follow up its own Member States which have difficulties in following up their obligations as members. This is particularly true in countries and territories of the former Soviet Union and the Balkans. The Committee therefore welcomes the fact that it will be a priority task for the Council of Europe to consolidate its role in the coming years in these countries as regards human rights, democratisation and the development of the rule of law. We got a strong reminder of this by watching TV footage this morning from the presidential election in Azerbaijan yesterday, where police and security forces brutally hit the demonstrations in Baku, where there is a suspicion of electoral fraud in favor of President Aliev's son. It is worrying and an example of the fact that several Member States are located in border countries in terms of meeting human rights and democracy requirements. The situation in Chechnya is still alarming. It is therefore important that the Council of Europe continues to focus on the situation and has Chechnya high on the agenda and that regular dialogue with Russian authorities is maintained. As a member of the Council of Europe, Russia is obliged to respect the European Convention on Human Rights, the principles of the rule of law and democratic principles in all parts of its territories, including Chechnya. The Council of Europe has asked Russia to avoid military attacks on the Chechen civilian population, to introduce a ceasefire and to start a peaceful dialogue with elected Chechen authorities. Russia must also ensure that people who have committed acts of terrorism and violated human rights are prosecuted and hostages are released. The Committee is also concerned that the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict parties have not come closer to finding a solution, even though Armenia and Azerbaijan have undertaken to work actively to this end. This won't be any easier after Aliev won the presidential election yesterday. It is now appropriate to take initiatives from the outside to find solutions to the unfortunate conflict affecting hundreds of thousands of refugees. The annual report of the delegation shows that the very situation of refugees and internally displaced persons throughout the Caucasus region has also been at the heart of the agenda for the Parliamentary Assembly. The Committee believes that the Council of Europe will meet challenges when the EU is planned to expand with 10 new Member States in 2004, but that the organisation will continue to be a key instrument for the development of democracy and the safeguarding of human rights in Europe. Norway can also play an important role here when we take over the Presidency of the Ministerial Committee in 2004. The Council of Europe's most well-known document is the European Convention on Human Rights, which was adopted in 1950. More than 800 million European citizens are now protected by this Convention, and anyone who considers that his or her rights under the Convention have been violated may, once national remedies have been tried, bring a complaint to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The European Convention on Human Rights is thus a very central document. The EU Convention is now in the process of assessing the status of the EU Charter of Human Rights standards in Europe and of the European Convention on Human Rights. There is a joint Committee on Foreign Affairs that believes it is very important to avoid two competing human rights standards in Europe. The Council of Europe also worked in 2002 to ensure that the EU accedes to the European Convention on Human Rights and its protocols, and the Convention considers this to be an option. The ever-increasing gap between requirements and available resources in the Council of Europe remains worrying, and this is particularly true of the European Court of Human Rights. It is alarming that the Court only manages to deal with one third of the cases that come in, and that the amount of untreated cases only grows. Effective action must therefore be taken to avoid weakening the Council of Europe's apparatus to protect human rights, the building of democracy and the development of the rule of law. It is important here to stress that the primary responsibility for improving human rights lies with the Member States themselves. The Committee welcomes the fact that the problems of the Court of Justice, together with youth-related issues, will be a priority task for Norway with the Presidency of the Ministerial Committee in 2004. The Council of Europe and the OSCE should cooperate as far as possible, as both organisations are working on the building of democracy and the development of the rule of law in the same areas. Closer cooperation could strengthen both organisations' efforts to contribute to the creation of democratic societies and peace in the European area. There is an overall committee that is behind the suspension and which is responsible for attaching the notification of Norway’s participation to the 2002 Council of Europe Protocol. The same applies to the annual report of the Norwegian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e733	I will make a few further comments in addition to what the case spokesperson provided, and it is particularly related to the future to the Council of Europe, although the 2002 Annual Report is the starting point. The turbulence that we see in the Council – an ever-expanded Council with several members, some 45 countries as the case-speaker said, but at the same time that a larger and larger part of the members of the European Council also become members of the European Union – presents the Council with new challenges. Some of these challenges are a little different than what the case spokesperson was about. Now, in May next year, we are faced with a European Council where 25 of the members are in the EU and 20 are not in it, and at least seven of the 20 who are not in the EU have a clearly expressed objective of becoming that, it is clear that this will change the situation quite dramatically, not because the Council of Europe becomes irrelevant, but because one will face a new form of shared Europe in the area where the Council of Europe is to deal with human rights and democracy. It is obvious that both among those in the EU and especially among those who are not in the EU – I am not thinking primarily of Norway and Switzerland – there will be major problems when it comes to democratic development and human rights. If one then stands before a European Council to oversee this, where the one minority is, so to speak, responsible for monitoring the minority of countries, even if difficult powers such as Russia and others will be among those who are not, then the legitimacy of the Council of Europe may go free. Thus, cooperation with the EU is not just a matter of concern. It is a matter for itself, on which the case spokesperson was in. The question is to find a way in which this pan-European body can function in such a way as to provide a credible monitoring of democracy in all Member States. This means that the Council of Europe must also focus on the old democracies and look at possible weaknesses and problems in the democratic development of these countries. We must bear that in mind, even though it is of a different nature from democracy and human rights in the new Member States. In other words, it has to be a balance. The Council of Europe must be such that it is not just monitoring those countries that are not in the EU. When it comes to the countries of the European Union, and insofar as the countries that are almost in it, such as Norway and Switzerland and the others, it is clear that one has other mechanisms to take care of democracy and human rights, within the framework of the EU, etc. So this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- this is going to be equal to-- But this is a very fundamental problem, because one could risk some countries – ten-twelve countries – standing outside the Western European and Central European Community bodies through the European Union and at the same time be subjected to quite intensive monitoring – judgments from the Court of Human Rights – and one could then feel that these are the majority of their judgments over the minority. This has to do with legitimacy. I have no clear answer to that. The only indication that can be given is that the Council and, for example, The Commissioner for Human Rights must be briefed on problems in Western and Central European countries. This means that one deals with the whole of Europe, but that the heavy issues will of course be the new Member States and that they must be focused. This may also have something to do with what the case-speaker was also involved, namely the availability of resources in the Council of Europe in the future. If this becomes a body largely responsible for democratic control and human rights for a minority of European countries, the willingness to invest resources in this body will also be reduced, from the few who are being monitored, but probably also from the many who will feel that the Council of Europe is irrelevant. In this way, one could reinforce the problem that everyone is aware of, the lack of resources that exists particularly around the judicial system in the Council of Europe. In other words, there are a number of things that lie in the continuation of what the case spokesperson was in, and that Norway will be able to take up through the presidency that the Government enters in a very short time. It is not that there are simple answers to it, but it is a point to put on the agenda to ensure the legitimacy and relevance of the Council in those areas where everyone is aware that the Council should have a relevance and legitimacy, because it is the only body that brings all these between 45 and 50 countries that exist west of the Caspian Sea in Europe. If there is no guarantee of legitimacy and relevance, the Council of Europe will die out of lack of resources, and thus there is no organisation in which human rights and democracy can be addressed on an equal basis between Member States.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e744	It is not difficult to agree with the statements made by the President of the case and also by the representative of Blankenburg. But if we are to make the debate even more topical, we should note what was said on the news today early on, that even Norwegian lawyers have problems interpreting the law of the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg. You don't know enough about the law to make use of it in Norway. Then I thought we'd borrow an ear to him who's a human rights commissioner. He comes up with some challenges about where Europe is going. One thing is how human rights are treated in the conflicted areas, the war zones that exist around Europe, and also in the world otherwise. In addition, he is facing challenges in relation to what is happening in the real old democracy of Europe. For example, he shows the fight against terrorism has led to civil rights and human rights in, for example: The United Kingdom has been put to the game. One is allowed to keep people in custody a lot longer, intelligence agencies get to work a lot freer, people get put in without law and judgment, etc. – even in the country with the longest tradition of parliamentaryism. He says, for example. that what goes on in Guantanamo, Cuba, clearly signals to the Islamic world that one is willing to change the gamblers just the things are good enough. He comes with clear warnings against changing the game rules, because they can have disastrous consequences for the way we think about democracy. Where there are great wars, where there are great conflicts, there is no doubt that a deviation from civil rights in countries that have much more peace and order. I want to say a little bit about what he says about the situation, not least at Guantanamo. It is relevant to a matter we will deal with later today. He is right to say that if you believe that you win the fight against terrorism by shutting people inside like animals, without trial or defence, we are willing to fool ourselves and what we want to bring forward as a democratic principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e753	After this debate, it's probably just two points I wanted to pick up. One is – I think we are all aware of that – that on the European continent there are quite a number of cooperation organisations, partly overlapping cooperation organisations. It is therefore of great importance to focus on what is the strength of the respective cooperation forums. As I read the position and listen to the rapporteur, there is good consensus between the committee and me on what must be the main priority and the strength. So I just need to say that we will take that into account when we now prepare the Norwegian Presidency, which will apply from May next year, and which will last a very short time, only half a year in the future. The second point I wanted to pick up is that Haakon Blankenburg mentioned, and where for once I'm not quite sure if I agree with him. The main challenge for the Council of Europe is their geographical coverage, which means that it also covers countries that, from time to time, have something left in developing their social system in full compliance with the standards set. I agree with Mr Blankenborg that these standards are not just new members who must comply, they must also comply with old members. But then, in terms of their relationship to the standard and in particular not for the sake of the new countries, we are acting. But it's a significant challenge in many new countries to work for the standards, I think it's quite clear, but that's exactly what makes this task particularly meaningful. That is why it is important that the Council of Europe has now embraced as far as they have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e762	When the European Convention on Human Rights was adopted in 1950, there were ten countries behind it, and we had Winston Churchill's words that we need a United States of Europe. It was then relatively easy in the so-called old democracies to agree. But after the fall of the Soviet Union, there was a rapid development with many new members, which led to challenges for some of the so-called old democracies, for example. judgments of the European Court of Human Rights of Russia and Ukraine in human rights cases of the United Kingdom, Germany and France. When so many new members and this new membership were subsequently to be reflected in the College of Judges of the European Court of Justice, it probably also created a strong desire to focus on human rights in the EU Convention. In this way, two competing documents were obtained. The Council of Europe has now called for it to be avoided. It is another aspect of what the representative Blankenborg pointed out, that it must not now appear that there is a majority of the old democracies who are supposed to be, in a way, the perpetrators of human rights in the new Member States. But it was actually the reverse situation that was of some background that many wanted to create a kind of own human rights document for EU members. I hope that we will avoid such a situation, and that the EU will confirm that there is one Convention on Human Rights that applies to Europe, and that cooperation that all Member States of the Council of Europe have served can be found.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e774	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. [[See page 201]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e794	It's easy to be seduced by Cuba. Eyes inspire the senses and grasp the heart. In books and tourist brochures, Cuba is made as a magical city – with music and salsa to long overnight, spicy food, hand-rolled cigars and warm and passionate people. Combined with revolutionary romance, these impressions act as sky notes for the real situation in Cuba. Those who dare to speak freely, tell them about another weekday. Researcher Distad Andreassen at the University of Bergen writes in a chronicle in Dagbladet on 8 May last year: "Cuba was our exotic socialist dream, or nightmare, depending on political affiliation, because it seemed to work." He points out that many people have much to thank Fidel Castro for: that the revolution is scaring Cuba from chaos and corruption, and that the country has overcome poverty, racism, the replacement of the workers and enormous differences between the poor and the rich. But, underline Distad, this is a long time ago. The health system still has a lot of medical coverage, but it lacks medicine and equipment. The Verda Food Organization reports that one fifth of the Cubans are undernourished. Prostitution is increasing. Although the country has had some economic liberalisation, it was never followed up with political freedom. A system of intensification control at the basic level prevents this from happening. Cubans who dare to speak freely talk about a day-to-day fear, about human rights violations and tough conditions for freedom of expression, about security police and neighbourhood committees that can monitor the activities of citizens in all areas of life through an effective device, and about family members who are harassed. There has been no significant improvement in human rights in Cuba in recent years, on the contrary. Quite rightly, the country has the power to improve the health and school sector in a way that other poor countries do not have, and it is of course to be praised, but freedom of expression and assembly is still being violated. Despite the United Nations and international community's calls, Cuba will not accede to the international and inter-American conventions on political and civil rights. In ours the situation was dramatically worse. Then the number of arrests of opposition, independent journalists and representatives of civil society increased. It does not comply with the principle of freedom of expression and fundamental civil and political rights. This truth must occur. We cannot be silenced as long as Cuban regimes do not respect human rights and democracy. It's important for me to say that I don't want to isolate Cuba. I am critical of the policy that the United States is pursuing towards Cuba. He has not worked as he was thinking, and has been used in many ways as an argument from Castro to exercise more control. I'm in line with Nobel laureate Jimmy Carter, who my American government should work with Cuban government to create a cooperation based on mutual respect. I believe that the way to reform is through contact and cooperation with the Cubans, not through isolation. Norway, together with other countries in Europe and America, has normal commercial and diplomatic relations with Cuba. This view is also reflected in the fact that since 1993, Norway in the United Nations has voted in favour of the resolution which departs from the American embargo on Cuba. We have also reopened our embassy in Havana, which provides a good basis for cooperation. However, Norway is at the same time withdrawing from the human rights violations and the lack of democracy in Cuba, and is stifling UN resolutions that criticise this. Norway has so expressed that we can have a good cooperation with Cuba, even if we criticise parts of the policy that are being pursued in the country. I am therefore asking what we can actually do on the Norwegian side to increase respect for democracy and human rights in Cuba, and how this cooperation can be strengthened. I know that Norway, along with many other countries, has tried to engage in a dialogue with Cuban human rights regimes, but that it was suspended from Cuban side after Norway voted against Cuba in the UN Human Rights Commission in spring 2000. Cuban authorities have not been willing to resume this dialogue. Cuban regimes reject dialogue with reference to our voice pattern and our attitude in the Human Rights Commission. So it's not the rest of the world, except for the United States, that isolates Cuba, but it's Cuba that is isolating itself under the current regime. I don't mean that Norway should enter into a formal dialogue with Cuba, if that leads to that we can't speak in the UN as we wish. We cannot allow Cuban authorities to set such requirements. But if a formal dialogue is not possible now, there must be other ways Norway can cope with and improve the situation. Cuba’s human rights are being broken, and it is important that Norway strengthens cooperation and contact with the Havana government when it comes to human rights issues. We can't wait to change until Castro goes off or the United States cancels its boycott. It is important that we act now. The situation is dramatically worse in Cuba. In the shelter of the Iraq war, Cuban regimes in ours are putting in an offensive against the opposition in Cuba. In the first few months of 2003, the regime has increased the suppression of oppositionals. Journalists, political opponents and human rights defenders are our harassment, and more prisons. More than 80 opposition forces were arrested. Perhaps the most prominent is Vladimir Roca, founder of the Social Democratic Party in Cuba, the son of one of the revolutionists. Amnesty described the arrests as the worst against the opposition in decades. These systematic violations of human rights and persecution are a deliberate policy to suppress forces that want a free and democratic Cuba. We can't dwell on this. The regime is tightening the grip now, because the oppositional forces in Cuba have grown up lately, especially through the work of Oswaldo Paya. Paya has expressed optimism that it is possible to achieve a positive development in the country, but that this will not happen without international pressure. Paya is opposition leader and leader of the Christian Democratic Party in Cuba. Paya is also the initiator and leader of the so-called Varela project. It's a civil rights organisation that was set up in 1988. The Varela project has been internationally approved, not least after Paya received the Sakharov Prize from the European Parliament. He was also nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, among others. by Vaclav Havel. The Varela project is gathering the opposition. The movement is directed towards the fight for human rights in Cuba and is party-neutral in itself. It's a signing campaign with demands for popular reconciliation for better conditions for human rights that are already enshrined in the Cuban constitution. Freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and equal treatment of Cubans and foreign citizens are central here. Paya, on behalf of the Varela project, has presented and requested specific proposals to this effect in the National Assembly. In 2003, more than 11,000 signatures were handed over to the National Assembly, which, under the Constitution, confers the right to referencing. The Cuban National Assembly, with its one Communist party, has failed in this rejection of the demands of the Varela project for such a treatment. In this spring's group of prisoners of conscience, almost half are from the Varela project. 40 central members were arrested. The only thing they'd done was work to get the Cubans to enjoy the same dishes that we're new in Norway. Thus, they were imprisoned. Many in the Varela project will continue, but others are afraid and choose not to work actively in the movement of democracy. Both the leaders who are imprisoned and those who are not yet taken fear for the first time in many years of their lives. Prisons are desperate for a change. There are very debasing conditions in prisons, summary trials and minimal contact with family members. Most of them are located in isolation cells. The death penalty is again in use in Cuba. Dissidents have always been aware of the risk they're taking, but these judges were unusually hard. It hasn't been convicted so hard for decades. Castro has in a row defended the arrests by saying that the oppositional undermines Cuban society, that they are supported by the U.S., and are in the process of planning an American invasion. Paya has always been aware that the Varela project is a movement that is completely independent of both party, church, exiled environment and the United States. I think Castro is experiencing Paya, the Varela project and the movement of democracy as a truce. What other reason might the regime have had to arrest them? After three days of trial, they were sentenced to 12 to 28 years in prison and placed with heavily criminal prisoners, in prison far from their relatives. Could there be anything other than a strategy to weaken the work of democracy and secure the future of ownership and revolution? I don't think so. With this in mind, the Christian People's Party of the Government continues its clear speech to the Cuban regime and pursue a policy that leads to a peaceful transition to democracy. Norway must react to what is happening in an appropriate way and through its own channels. With this in mind, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: how can the Norwegian Government contribute to democratic reforms and increase respect for human rights in Cuba? What will the Foreign Minister do to release the Cuban political prisoners? What further steps will the Foreign Minister take to support the movement of democracy in Cuba?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e818	For several decades, relations between Norway and Cuba were almost of a purely formal nature. However, from 1998 onwards and for a few years, Norway has been able to enter into a constructive dialogue with Cuba on human rights. Two seminars focused on justice, democracy, freedom of the press and human rights were organised. These were perceived as a good starting point for further cooperation, and plans were made for more new meetings. However, the Cubans suspended the dialogue following the 56th session of the UN Commission on Human Rights in the spring of 2000. The background was that Norway, which had previously voted in favour of a resolution criticising the human rights situation in Cuba. Repeated attempts to resume the dialogue from the Norwegian side have not been made. The development of the Human Rights Commission meeting in 2000 has not given us any reason to change our critical position on the human rights situation in Cuba. Among other things, the international community has condemned the mass arrests of dissidents and independent journalists, as well as the summary lawsuits against them and against three boat captains arrested in March/April this year. The dissidents were sentenced to very long prison sentences and the captors executed. We also took these human rights violations up from Norway with Cuban authorities and made it clear that such a case-law is totally unacceptable. The Cuban chargé d’affaires in Oslo was called up to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in April this year and clearly explained the Norwegian views. Unfortunately, the Cuban authorities seem to be taking little account of the reactions of the international community. The authorities have suspended much of their contact with those countries that protested most, including the EU countries and Norway. Contact with the country’s political and administrative authorities has been greatly reduced since our chargé d’affaires in Havana were no longer accepted by the ministries. Cuba also rejects assistance from EU countries and Norway and does not allow follow-up visits to projects from the embassy. However, assistance through non-governmental organisations and the UN continues. But organizations like Amnesty International and the International Red Cross are not allowed to work in Cuba, which increases our concern for human rights in the country. Given the current, and hopefully temporary, limitations in our contacts with the Cuban authorities, the main task of the Norwegian representation is to maintain relations with civil society, that is. to groups who, by peaceful means, wish to give it democratic governance and secure its economic and political development and integration into the world community. Our contact with the oppositionals is an important moral support and at the same time a signal to the authorities that we find the treatment to which the opposition is subjected, unacceptable. This may be our foremost support for efforts to promote democratic reforms in Cuba. For a number of years, Norway has been providing humanitarian support to the families of political prisoners in an attempt to relieve the very worst distress and ensure a minimum of food and medicine. This kind of support we still want to be able to provide, and we want to use the channels that bring the help to where it is most needed. It is therefore important to be active and clear in international forums where Cuba is referred to and relations with national authorities are treated. Let me also mention, just to underline that, President, the interpellant also mentioned, namely that Norway in the United Nations has voted against the American embargo on Cuba for a number of years, because we believe that, in principle, there should be a distinction between sanctions adopted by the United Nations and unilateral sanctions by individual states. At the same time, we should, in the government's opinion, seek to maintain contacts with Cuban authorities where this can be done. The government also aims to resume a dialogue on human rights with Cuban authorities, but this requires a Cuban change of attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e844	The President just wants to remind the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this time the President is a lady.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e847	I mean, I said "honest president" so it held.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e852	Then the President will give the floor to the inter-pellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e855	And the interpellant likes to use the term "good president," and hopes that it can be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e860	It's accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e863	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, and I am very pleased with the responses that have already been made, and I also say clearly that in the future one will be active and clear in all international forums. I think it's very important. Furthermore, I am pleased that you will try to reopen the dialog. Then I also see that there is a clear need for Cuba to change course. It's a paradox that Cuba's powers of government are always saying that it's outside the world that is hostile to Cuba, and that when it comes to every single narrowdown, it owes to the United States and to the embargo. What Cuba has done in this case is say no to dialogue, say no to contacts with the countries that have always been open to both commercial and diplomatic ties with Cuba, and yet one has suspended that contact. It seemed to me that in this case it is Cuba that is on very thin ice, and it is necessary to charge it. Since I tried to raise this debate this summer, there has been a debate about what is important in a country. Is it food or is it human rights? What does the United Nations say about it? The UN has always grouped civil and political rights to economic, social and cultural rights. In the United Nations terminology, the categories are an indivisible whole. The United Nations is aware of this at all times, and no group is more important than others. Therefore, it is completely wrong when the representative of Langeland wants to drag the search light away from freedom of expression, from classical human rights, as voting rights and other dishes, and on food only. So the question is, isn't it that this hangs together? Then it's interesting to see what the Nobel Prize winner in economics Amartya Sen has said in his noble speech. He has said that political freedom, with freedom of expression, a free press, an opposition party and an active opinion, is important to contribute to the reduction of poverty. In other words, the classic democratic values recognised by the West are important for achieving other values, such as poverty reduction. I think it speaks for itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e870	On 5 June this year, the European Union issued a very strong and very clear statement on the regrettable development of the human rights situation in Cuba. This declaration was made on behalf of not only the current EU Member States but also of all the candidate and EFTA countries cooperating with the EU, including Norway. It's remarkable that an all-violence regime of the kind practiced in Cuba can survive for such a long time. It is also remarkable that it exhibits all the characteristics of totalitarian systems when they succeed in maintaining power over a long period of time, namely that they are forced to resort to increasingly brutal means of repression in relation to any form of opposition. It's not just about the right to believe something else politically, it's about completely fundamental rights like religious freedom, freedom of thought and freedom of expression. In view of this, it is alarming that the Norwegian Grand Prix has a representative from the Socialist Left Party who said so late as in Political Quarter in the NRK yesterday morning that he saw no reason to withdraw his proposal that Fidel Castro should be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. It is not only a remarkable example of active and persistent political insensibility, it is also a direct insult to the victims of the repression taking place in Cuba. Unfortunately, it goes into a pattern that we saw for a long time in Western European countries, that so-called left-wing intellectuals had problems seeing the human rights issue in regimes with which they themselves sympathise. There is absolutely no basis for believing that poor people are better off, that hungry people are fed by suppressing opposition, freedom of expression and freedom of religion. It's in itself a thought that's absurd. That is why I should like this interpellation debate to make it clear that the Socialist Left does not at all share the views expressed by the representative of Langeland in the public debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e881	There is no doubt that we need to see human rights and trading blocs in clusters, and we need to see what Norway can do in future Cuba. I totally agree with the representative Lilletun that there are major problems with regard to human rights in Cuba, and we have to dare to look at the background for that. We have two types of human rights problems in Cuba – one is what happens in the country of Cuba itself, and one is, of course, what happens on the American base of Guantanamo. I'll leave what's happening on Guantanamo, but just point out that the Red Cross says that the ratio is completely inhuman there. When it comes to what's happening in Cuba, I thought we should move out a little bit and try to figure out the background for it. In these days we know that Liechtenstein actually refuses to ratify the EEA Agreement. Why do they do that? Well, that's because Liechtensteinars have property in the old Czech Republic, in the old Sudentenland. In Cuba, too, this is the root of the problem: when land and land are confiscated by the Cuban regime, no owners outside Cuba, mainly in the United States, have created a Helms-Burton law, which says that someone is dealing with Cubans, they can be prosecuted in the United States. The conflict is so far behind that someone demands that they have their land and their property back. Then we're in the middle of everything that's made up of civil rights and human rights in Latin America. What we need from people has our soil, health care and education. This has the Cuban regime in very many ways ready to fulfil. When we e.g. Having visits to Cuban tradesmen here in Oslo, we have good dialogues with them. I say that one of the problems with professionalism in Norway today is that many of them vote for example. on the right hand side. They'll be very surprised because in Cuba, they're used to being kind of a mass input. But we have that dialogue all the time, and the representative, Lilletun, is quite right that that dialogue must be maintained. Then I'll invite the representative Lilletun to press harder on the U.S. and the relationship with the international law-enforcement commercial bloc. I invite the representatives here to participate in a cross-political work where we can create a network that works to get rid of the international law-enforcement commercial bloc. It would be a very concrete work that we can continue with and certainly have to continue for many years to come. The reports that Amnesty comes with from Cuba clearly show that there is an infringement here. We have to do something about this. Then we also have to make sure that the pressure in Cuba is not so great that it prevents them from doing anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e895	It's a shame that the representative Jacobsen didn't have to say clearly and clearly that he doesn't accept the totalitarian regime in Cuba. It's good with the interpellation that Jon Lilletun picks up, that here we have a chance to look at Cuba separately. And then we can't relativize the situation in Cuba by bringing forward all possible irrelevant relationships, because we're in front of a totalitarian government that, like many other totalitarian governments, has focused on raising living standards to people. The Cuban regime is not the first to be able to raise the standard of living for many in health care, school, etc., but under a totalitarian ride. And we're not going to lose sight of that. There's in all the last of the old types of dictatorship in this part of the world we're facing. That doesn't mean one should not look at external conditions. But when Bjørn Jacobsen says that there are external conditions that make Cuba undemocratic, it's wrong. Cuba can be democratized, but there are some external conditions that give the dictator an opportunity, an excuse, to hold on to his totalitarian system. There is, of course, the American blockade and the boycott the dominant one. Having an outside enemy is the best thing for a dictator. If the United States had removed this penalty, everyone would see that the Cuban dictator had the same clothes as the emperor, and the dictatorship would disappear quite quickly. If things got any better, no one can say. But it must be right, as the Foreign Minister also said, that we firmly believe that this is a totalitarian system that we do not accept. We can have an understanding, we can have a dialogue and mutual respect, but not a respect for the political system. That is why the line put forward by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, including the one that we will support in the further work to ensure both the most possible human rights rights, press for democratic development in Cuba and work to remove the meaningless threat that could be used in Cuba, the American threat, so that the dictator's instigation disappears. It is possible to work along both of these tracks. It's happened in relation to totalitarian regimes elsewhere, and it should happen in relation to the totalitarian regime in Cuba, because it's a dictatorship on a line with many other dictatorships where we're also trying to work along several tracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e906	It is important that developments in Cuba and, in particular, the human rights situation are closely followed by the international community. The last half-year’s events have also resulted in a number of focussing on the difficult situation that is, among other things, for the political dissidents of the country. Hard judges target a 70's opposition and death sentences against, among others. the ferries in April have generated significant and justified international reactions. I am also concerned that Cuba has refused to allow UN inspectors to investigate the human rights situation and that several international humanitarian organisations should be undesirable on the island. The question, however, is what approach international society and Norway have taken in order to exercise a reasonable influence on Fidel Castro. Clinton softened the relationship with Cuba something. This gave hope to a plagued Cuban population. With the Bush administration, however, we have experienced strong contractions in relations between the United States and Cuba again, and there is no doubt that Bush’s course and new sanctions are hitting the usual Cubans. EU Member States have also changed their Cuba policies and have, among other things, reduced assistance. In the summer, the EU adopted four points to limit contact with Cuba, affecting both high-level bilateral meetings and cultural exchanges. Furthermore, coordination between EU and US Cuba policies is now under way. I also understand that the Norwegian chargé d’affaires at Havana confirm to the Official Journal of Bergen that Norway follows the same guidelines as the EU. The Central Party believes it is extremely important that Norway, through its Cuba policy, highlight the need to strengthen the political opposition, that it is exceptionally important, and that we also contribute humanitarianly to families of political prisoners. I fear that the new policy of the European Union will work against its purpose, because the Cubans are most concerned about the conflict with Europe, and in particular about the economic consequences. We all know how successful the American economic sanctions have been for the country. It has caused great suffering to its 11 million inhabitants, and Castro is equally undisputed leader in Cuba. Cuba has never let itself be pushed to anything, cf. That the arrests in the spring came after several months of American activity against the opposition. But in view of this, and in summary, the Centre Party is concerned that Norway must pursue a balanced policy in which we maintain as open an exchange as possible with the Cuban regime, while clearly marking our moral and practical support for a democratic opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e917	The left shares Lilletun's concern about the human rights situation in Cuba and thanks him very much for addressing this matter at Stortinget. We also agree with the assessments made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his reply. Unfortunately, the situation is gloomy, as the authorities in Cuba show so little willingness for dialogue and reform. It is all the time because of the US boycott line, while the country is using it as a shell for continued dictatorship instead of looking at how to base a change in attitude from the outside world. However, it is positive that Cuba has reopened the embassy in Norway and that the ambassador has met with the parliamentary leaders here in the house. The left took up with the ambassador a list of 23 members of the liberal parties in Cuba who are now imprisoned, and was promised an answer to this situation. We hope that the reopening of the embassy and meetings is an expression of new will for dialogue, and that Cuba can take human rights more seriously. The ideological debate in Norway is rather labile. Some of the reason is that more parties will no longer talk about ideology. The left has, on some occasions, tried to challenge the Socialist Left Party on what they really stand for, since they almost consistently no longer take the word socialist in their mouths, nor are they provoked by statements from this pulpit that socialism is dead. But sometimes the court stands up and reveals that socialism, in its actual form, is not at all forgotten in the party that bears the name of ideology. One of the examples is the relationship with Cuba. For a number of years, SVs have had a romantic notion of Cuba as the socialist country where human rights are therefore relativised to the indecent. The Socialist Left Party has been wise not to leave Hallgeir H. Langeland as its spokesman in this debate. But I'm somewhat surprised by the strategy, not using this opportunity to distance themselves from those attitudes, but instead using the opportunity to throw forward a number of questions and support the principle that human rights can be prioritised, and also expressing that the biggest problem for Norwegian trade union movement is voting on different parties. It's almost not to think you're using the opportunity for something like this. I am convinced that both nutrition, health and education would be significantly better in Cuba if we had thrown away the journey of socialism, introduced democracy and a freer economy. In any case, it is reassuring to look forward to representatives of the Socialist Left Party continuing to act as useful idiots for a dictatorship, as we have seen so often before – conciliatory but also revealing. The Socialist Left tries to hide its ideological fundamentals in the political debate, and tries to appear as an intermediary between a social liberal and a mild social-democratic party. It's time for the party to take the ideological settlement and reveal what it stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e932	In mid-March of this year, the Cuban authorities further tightened the opposition situation in the country. 75 dissidents were arrested. Several of these were subjected to a very unfair trial. They were all subjected to severe punishment. The hardest one was 28 years old. Cuban authorities say that those arrested were foreign agents, who, through their activity, threatened Cuba's independence and security. Amnesty International is of the opinion that these are prisoners of conscience who were put in prison alone because of their peaceful exercise of their fundamental rights. This tightening of the human rights relationship was further updated in April of this year, when Cuba lifted its moratorium on the use of the death penalty. Three persons, who had been sentenced to death for participation in boat hijacking, were executed by shooting. These too, according to Amnesty International, had been subjected to summary cases. The executions were carried out within one week after the proceedings had started. It seems to me that the authorities in Cuba are using the American boycott of over 40 years old of the country as an excuse for their persecution of oppositionals. This is an excuse that we must not accept. Therefore, it is also encouraging that the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland from SV is just launching Cuba's Fidel Castro dictator as a peace prize winner. The fact that you're poor is no excuse for breaking human rights. All experience suggests that democratisation, improvement of human rights, development of rule of law and increasing integration into the world economy are prerequisites for both political and economic development. This is why it does not hold to claim, as some people do, that it is the West which, through its policy, is exploiting poor countries. That's what Castro claims, but let's not be fooled by those statements. It is the political regime in Cuba that is a direct obstacle to economic development and growth on the island. At the same time, we must also be allowed to stress that the US over 40-year-old boycott of the country has been completely unsuccessful. A lifting of the boycott will be of great benefit to all parties, not least to the poorest population in Cuba. As it is now, the regime uses the boycott as an excuse for its own persecution of different thinking. Norway joined the EU opinion in June to limit political contact with the authorities of Cuba. It was a wise decision to which all the representatives should agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e945	My name has been mentioned several times during this debate. I just want to repeat what I have said publicly: this is a private proposal, which is made with certain intentions that I believe I have achieved in part in this room. Among other things, I think it is positive that so many people in the debate say that now a person is going to work more actively to lift the illegal blockade that the United States has against Cuba. That's what I thought was very positive. Let me say that human rights violations and the death penalty – if it happens in Cuba, if it happens in Saudi Arabia, if it happens in Israel, and if it happens in the United States – I take a strong distance from it. Everyone should. But I don't very often hear a right-wing pipe when it's for 14-year-old kids who get killed in the United States, or when it's for the Guantanamo prisoners. There's not so much sound in the Right People then. Or what if there's an assault from Sharon's side and the Christian People's Party doesn't give out sound? So there are several people who have a job to do, not just me, as one claims here. I would also like to say the following: the Committee on Energy and the Environment was in Cuba. We had a dialogue with the official government there. They were very interested in having a closer dialogue with Norway, among others. invited them once after Statoil came and worked there. Perhaps there would have been an alternative to dealing with illegal methods in Iraq? Let me also say to Lilletun's briefing that, in fact, SV, as the only group, had a longer meeting with Paya in Cuba, a half-hour meeting, in fact, after the other committee members had gone home, just to listen to how they work, and if they run with sensible things. I thought they had a way of working that was important, because they work independently of the United States, and I think that's important. So to another point that has been made, which is really one of my main points with my suggestion. There are 40,000 children dying every day in this world, there are 1.2 billion people starving, and one of them obviously complains that Cuba, like a poor country, is just capable of doing something about this. They can accommodate people, they can feed people, and they can provide people with free school and health care, something that every country should be able to do. It's a poor country. But there's a problem: they don't have the right to vote in Cuba, they don't have the right voting rights we want. But many poor people don't have it, and most poor people don't have food and housing either. If a cage in Rio, or living in a slum in Miami, has a real problem with choosing what's most important. So in the end...
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e965	The time has run out, so there's no «in the end». Now it's over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e968	I just wanted to ask Secretary of State Petersen and Lilletun to invite Castro to Molde, as one did with Sharon.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e973	I'm not going to pull out this debate that much. I just have to say that it is an important matter that the representative Jon Lilletun here addresses in his interview with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. However, I have noticed that there is a great deal of disagreement between Lilletun and others with knowledge of Cuba about what are the actual conditions there. Lilletun mentions that Norway in the United Nations has abdicated from human rights violations and the lack of democracy in Cuba. This is important. Norway should address violations of human rights in the United Nations, regardless of the country in which they are committed. In this regard, I would like to show that I was Rwanda last year. There are 120 000 prisoners in particularly inhumane conditions. Time does not allow me to describe these conditions, but they have been sitting there for more than nine years without law and judgment. These are subject to the UN Court of Justice, and they are therefore our responsibility. But some people are more concerned with pointing towards the other side of the Atlantic than clearing up areas closer to us with worse conditions. This does not mean that I defend human rights violations in Cuba or elsewhere on the other side of the Atlantic, but that we must not forget those who suffer from much worse conditions on this side of the globe, and that we must put such inhuman relationships to an end.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e982	I would like to commend the initiative of the representative Lilletun to address this interview on the human rights situation in Cuba. I believe that some of the honour belongs to the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland for his proposal. So, as you can see, the debated proposal to nominate Fidel Castro at the peace prize may have had one positive player in the Storting and contributed to more people being occupied by what is the real human rights situation in Cuba. But I would like to add some comments to this debate. It is true that all representatives of the Stortinget and former parliamentarians have the opportunity to nominate people at the Peace Prize, but there is no party treatment of this. Me and SV believe that Fidel Castro is an entirely out-of-date candidate for a peace prize. The intention of the proposer has been to launch a discussion on what is actually happening. But for SV, the fight for social justice and the fight for political and humanitarian human rights are inextricably linked. The only thing I have to postulate on Lilletun's interpellation is the lack of concern about the conditions for gays in Cuba. For it is that homofil practice is forbidden there. It is one of the things that is also presented as a provider of a capitalist society. So if we can complement Mr Lilletun's statement on human rights concerns in Cuba, with what concerns minority rights, I think the picture might be complete. With regard to some references to the statements made by SV in this debate, I would just like to say that when representatives from SV say that we are in dialogue with different movements in Cuba – and representatives from SV have many meetings with them – they are confronted with the situation regarding human rights, it is not the wish of SV that everyone who is organised in the trade movement should vote in one party. It is then stated as a human right that organised in the trade movement in Norway also has the right to vote on a right-wing party, if that is what they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e993	First, I want to thank all those who have taken the word and shared it. It's not often that an interpellation captured such an interest in the hall. I think it's good when people's rights come on the agenda, that there's something that's fiending. So I'd like to tell the representative, Stensaker, that there was a lot of joy in his contributions in relation to the fact that he seems to be very busy with injustice in the world, that there is a need to do something about international structures, and that development work, aid work, is needed to sort out the unworthy situation that 40,000 young people die every day. I hope that the representative Steinsaker’s contribution was an expression of a new orientation in the Progress Party’s international policy. In that case, it'll be high time, and it'll be happy. I would also like to make it clear to the Christian People's Party that we believe that the United States is undermining international human rights standards through the treatment of the prisoners on the base of Cuba. We also mean that signing international agreements to guarantee human rights is negative in the same way. We're actually in exactly the same way with SV in. But we are amazed at this fear – as the representative Blankenburg expressed it – in order to address the specific situation that has arisen in the interpellation, and say clearly from it. It wears a lot with it, even a person as well-meaning as the representative Jacobsen. I have also received a letter from the Cuba Association, which mentions the unworthy campaign of the representative Lilletun against Castro and Cuba, and makes humanism in Cuba. I have searched a little after, and I think the representative Jacobsen will find many parties in this association. And I have to say that there wasn't much self-criticism in that letter. There wasn't much to see about the things we've been discussing here today. What I actually think the debate has resolved is that there is a mass mass saying that human rights are universal, and that they cannot be divided into having food and freedom of expression, as the representative Langeland did yesterday. Similarly, I also think it is very clear that you are content with the Government's commitment. Thirdly, I actually thought that the representative Blankenburg pointed out that there is still something unsolved in SV's policy, that this is in a way the recognition far inside, and with the romantic prehistory there is a piece to go before one is in the finish line. But sum total: I am pleased with the Foreign Minister's reply and with the debate, and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e1007	I think that this debate, at least towards the end, lacked the seriousness of the human rights violations in Cuba. This is serious, and that is why the Government is also clear on these issues. I think there are three things to comment on. One is what has been said about sanctions. I think maybe this penalty teaches us that we should basically discuss whether sanctions are at all a suitable instrument. This applies not only to Cuba, but also to many other areas, including where Norwegian politicians call for sanctions. We should take that inwards. The second thing I want to say is that this debate has shown a broad consensus on the government's line, but not so wide that it also includes SV, simply because the government is clear. As I have heard the SV's speakers in the debate, they are unclear about Cuba. There are too many excuses. When the representative of Langeland claims that he has not heard what, among other things, The government and the Right say about Guantanamo, it's probably because he just doesn't listen. When it comes to the content of the matter, I have to say that the lack of clarity that SV here has shown, I think is quite alarming. The representative Jacobsen made a statement – I don't think of Langeland, but I think of the representative Jacobsen, who also made a statement – which was marked by considerable ambiguity and many excuses, and so the party leader didn't manage to deal with it. I have participated in many debates with Kristin Halvorsen over the last few years where she still demands clarity in Norwegian policy. I assume that Kristin Halvorsen will repeat it, and I assume that she will understand that there will be smiles in the assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e1020	That being so, the examination of case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e1038	SV is very pleased that Norway's position on the war and the lack of legitimacy of the United States and the United Kingdom to go to war with Iraq was very clear. Norway did not support the war, but referred to the mandate of international law. I will therefore leave that part of the debate in this round. What is a dilemma both for the Norwegian government and for the whole of the United Kingdom is that during the debate on the background of the war, much information was provided from the United States and the United Kingdom that has subsequently proved to be significant manipulation of facts. This means that Norway has a problem in the next crisis that arises, because we are very much dependent on the information we get from them. We are also in the situation that the Defence Policy Government proposes that Norway should have the capacity to participate in foreign operations. It is added to a much more offensive role for the Norwegian forces than what we have had in various UN operations, and it makes extra strong demands that we have information and background that is correct. The SV's position on the matter itself is that we should not have participated in the Iraq war even if the Security Council had given a mandate, but I should also have left that in this round. Let me just briefly go through what was alleged facts, so that we get a refresher of what this is about. What was claimed in the circle of the President of the United States just days after the terrorist attack on New York and Washington on 11 September 2001 was that Iraq and Saddam Hussein were a possible target, although nothing suggested that Iraq had anything to do with the attack itself. However, the Bush administration has many times, both in advance and after the war, suggested that there is a connection between Saddam Hussein's regime and Al Qaida. According to NTB, Powell has made several such claims. On 26 January this year, Powell said in a speech in Davos that there were clear links between Saddam Hussein's regime and the terrorist network Al Qaida. Powell said the same thing on February 5, when he presented evidence to the Security Council that Iraq still had weapons of mass destruction and had relations with Al Qaida. UK Minister for Foreign Affairs Jack Straw said on 5 March 2003: ‘What we understand in intelligence is that the Iraqi regime seems to offer a tolerant environment where Al Qaida can work. Of course, we have evidence of links between Al Qaida and different people in Iraq. What we don't know is the extent of these relationships." It has turned out in retrospect that these are statements that are very difficult to substantiate. The second claim was that Tony Blair, in an briefing to the British Parliament, said that Iraq had the capacity to trigger a chemical or biological attack in 45 minutes. This claim turned out to be from a twelve-year-old doctoral thesis. The author of this thesis believes that the quotations have been manipulated, and that the threat from Iraq was presented as much more bombastic than what it was in the report, and that Blair's work, for example, was carried out. translated ‘opposition groups’ by ‘terrorist groups’. A third claim was that Iraq had nuclear weapons, and that the country had tried to get enriched uranium from Niger. It was checked, and the former American ambassador Joseph C. Wilson declared this as false statements. Both the CIA and the State Department were informed about this. The International Atomic Energy Agency also warned against this information, but it was still used in Bush’s ‘State of the Union’ speech. The fourth claim concerned biological and chemical weapons, where Bush in his 2003 State of the Union speech was very bombastic in that US intelligence had estimated Saddam Hussein to have material to produce as much as 500 tonnes of saringass, mustard gas and VX nerve gas, and that Saddam Hussein had not reported where it went. In addition, Bush claimed that U.S. intelligence could indicate that Saddam Hussein had over 30,000 shots capable of delivering chemical drugs. The weapons inspectors found 16 of them, despite Iraq's statements that they did not exist. Saddam Hussein has not explained the remaining 29 000," said Bush, and it was presented as evidence of their existence. In June, two trailers were found in Northern Iraq as a suspect could be mobile laboratories. These turned out to be blowing up artillery balloons, as the Iraqis had always claimed. The list of examples is long, including intelligence. What we know is that Powell was under a constant pressure from the Pentagon and the White House to include information that was presented as clear information, but that he himself refused to provide in the Security Council. The U.S. weekly magazine US News & World Report has provided evidence of this. On 5 May 2003, VG wrote that much of the dubious intelligence coming from the Pentagon's Special Planning Office was set up after 11 September to find threats that the CIA had overlooked, and that they were too proud of the dubious reports of the Iraqi National Congress. The claims that have been made with great certainty by the United States and the United Kingdom as grounds for going to war with Iraq have subsequently proved to be false or manipulated with facts. But at the time they were presented, Foreign Minister Jan Petersen went well with them in the Stortinget. Nor did SV have any background to claim that they were false. Foreign Minister Jan Petersen, for example, said: in a comment on 13 February following Powell's statement to the Security Council: “Some say that Powell’s statement did not contain anything new. Well, at least I didn't know about all of this, nor had I seen the information put together in such a way before. However, it is crucial that the information is not new but that it is correct. As far as I can see, there have only been objections to a few of the points in his full account." Minister for Foreign Affairs Petersen also made a very clear statement in a foreign policy statement on 16 October 2002: ‘Likely, we have been informed – from the United States and other related allies – that Iraq still has access to chemical and biological weapons. Iraq shall also have an active nuclear programme and in a short time be able to develop nuclear weapons if the regime has access to high-rich uranium. We have also been made aware that Iraq has delivery systems that enable it to attack neighbouring countries with such weapons of mass destruction. This information is also fully addressed in independent research reports.» So the Minister for Foreign Affairs went well with the information that came out then, which has proved not to be a goal in retrospect. I do not attack the Minister of Foreign Affairs for knowingly having gone well because information he knew was wrong, but I challenge the Secretary of State and the rest of the United Kingdom to take over the fact and the problem that is now being discussed in the United Kingdom and in the United States, that the background and reason for going to war with Iraq was manipulated. The most serious thing you can do in any crisis situation is go to war. It only does one in those situations where there is no other way out. That's why we need to have a discussion in Norway about how to deal with information coming from the United Kingdom and the United States after that, because there will be new crises and new conflicts, and there will be situations where it may be relevant that information coming from the intelligence service of these countries is presented as a justification for going to war. SV's challenge to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: How are we going to deal with this information in the future? How are we going to make sure that we ourselves get aggregated information and evaluate the information with the critical distance that this case shows that we need?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e1086	I have a prepared answer. It is nevertheless natural for me to begin with an unprepared answer after what I have now heard Kristin Halvorsen say, for she carries out a reasoning in which she almost separates the question of legitimacy from the question of fact. It won't last. When decisions in the Security Council, i.e. legitimacy, did not come, it was because there was uncertainty about fact. The point is, for Norway too, that we did not base our decisions on the facts that Kristin Halvorsen now mentions in his article. On the contrary, it was precisely the question of further inspections that was constantly central to Norway, because we wanted more clarity in the matter. That is why the loose quotations that Kristin Halvorsen made do not cover, which is the reality of the matter. We have discussed this so many times that at least at this stage, Kristin Halvorsen should be able to admit it. That means that it's not right as she says, that we bought these positions as the basis for our action. What is right is that this information was so serious that for that reason we believed that the Security Council's decisions were taken. 1441 was right, and it was important for further inspections. That's the reality, and not what Kristin Halvorsen now tried to sell. On the part of the Government, we have consistently argued that the only safe way to clarify the issue of Iraqi mass destruction issues is through unwarranted and verifiable investigations in Iraq. As a member of the Security Council, Norway therefore supported in the autumn of 2002 the adoption of the Council’s mandatory travel package. 1441. The resolution included: called for UN weapons inspectors to receive from Iraq, within 30 days, a full overview of all aspects of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction programmes. In cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the inspectors, or UNMOVIC, who were their name, should be given full and unhindered opportunity to inspect the correctness of the information provided by the Iraqi regime. The Security Council was of the opinion that such inspections were necessary because the uncertainty associated with Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction programmes in itself posed a serious threat to peace and security in the region. Res. 1441 gave Iraq a last opportunity to clarify the issue of their weapons of mass destruction and to dispose of such weapons without the use of military force. By this unanimous and binding decision, the Security Council established a strategy for the peaceful disarmament of Iraq. UNMOVIC’s reports to the Security Council showed that the Iraqi regime did not cooperate with the inspectors ‘immediately, unreservedly and actively’, such as these. 1441 required. They also showed that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction delivery with a range beyond the UN's limits. They also showed that Iraq had not adequately explained what had happened to the biological and chemical weapons that we know the country had in the 1990s. This uncertainty regarding illegal weapons and weapons programmes and the many other unanswered questions was the reason why UNMOVIC’s leader Hans Blix, in his presentation to the UN Security Council in January 2003, recommended that inspections should continue. Unfortunately, it was not possible for the Security Council to agree on this. However, there was no disagreement among the permanent members of the Council that Iraq had grossly failed its obligations under the Council decision. The disagreement was about the way forward, i.e. if the inspectors were to be given more time. The government's position on the two key issues facing international society at that time was clear and clear: We agreed that Hans Blix and his weapons inspectors would continue their work.The government did not believe that there was sufficient ground for international law to go to a military action against Iraq. A new decision to this effect by the United Nations Security Council would be necessary. There has been a debate on the quality of intelligence information that existed before the United States and the United Kingdom acted against Iraq. But the government's position on the Iraq issue was not and is not based on US or British intelligence information. It was based on the binding decisions of the Security Council and the information provided by the UN Security Council by Hans Blix and IAEA Director-General Mohamed ElBaradei. In spite of Iraq's gross defaults, they were made. 1441, was the government of the opinion that the weapons inspections should still have because it had been made progress. The Security Council should have developed a concrete work programme with clear but achievable deadlines. The binding Security Council Resolution 1483 of 22 May this year reaffirmed the importance of a final confirmation of Iraq's disarmament. The resolution calls on the United States and the United Kingdom to keep the Security Council constantly informed about the investigations and findings that have to be made. The U.S. administration has made it clear that it wants to intensify its investigations in Iraq and has asked Congress for additional funding for this work. Of course, we are positive that the United States – and the United Kingdom – are concerned that what can be done to create certainty is being done. We're waiting for the results of the U.S. and British studies. As I said, there are still a number of unanswered questions related to Iraq's weapons of mass destruction. This is primarily due to the fact that the former regime was not willing to cooperate with UN weapons inspectors. At the outset, I said that from the Norwegian side, we have always believed that clarity in the issue of Iraqi weapons of mass destruction can only be created by unhindered and verifiable investigations in Iraq. It is important that the studies continue. This is a complicated work, but it has to be carried on in a way that gives the world community confidence that the studies are thorough and credible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e1127	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. First, a small visit to the opening remarks. We are all aware that there was a draw within the government on what should be Norway's view at the end of the seventh and last, and I think we can later be happy that the violent mobilization that was, among the people most and not least in church environments, led to the government being clumsy clear as to the fact that there was not a sufficient basis for international law to go to war with Iraq at that time. But it wasn't like Jan Petersen was cheering. I remember, among other things: that we had a round after the presentation here in the hiking hall, where Jan Petersen had more than enough to speak to the Swedish Prime Minister when he thought that the war against Iraq broke with international law, because it was going too far. He even used such strong words as that it was “all over the earth” to characterize the Swedish Prime Minister. In retrospect, I think he might be very pleased that the Norwegian view of the conflict was as it turned out. What I see as a little bit more sympathetic is that the government is not more offensive than to think of the strategy that is about how we are going to make sure that we get information and also verify the information in the future. So five months of intense search for Saddam Hussein's prohibited weapons has not produced any results, and all the claims that came before the war cannot be documented, even after five months of access to everything. David Albright, for example, former UN inspector, says that it is clear that the governments of the United States and the United Kingdom want to exaggerate the grounds for going to war. However, the report has not yet been properly presented, so that we can take the reservations that come with it, that we must see the report when it comes. What's our intention behind this interpellation is first and foremost to look forward to it. I think the situation will be so that most of the information about different conflicts in the world will be open information. And the biggest challenge for all countries will be to have the knowledge and competence to analyse the information that actually exists about different conflict areas. There is still the SV's position that we need to have a completely different and reinforced assurance that with regard to the information we use, we have made sure that they are carefully evaluated in different environments that have a good background to do so. And it's not necessarily certain that it's in state environments, it can also be in different research environments. That care requires such a difficult world situation as we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e1138	Kristin Halvorsen's problem in the debate we've been going on for months now is that she's concerned about pushing at me a couple of positions that she's found out that I have, and then she wants me to almost make a spokesman for the opinions the British and US intelligence services have had on these issues. It's a role that I don't see any reason to assume. I think it's getting very special, to say it carefully, when the question of the ground of international law, which I commented on in the hiking hall, is made a point in this case. Kristin Halvorsen knows just as well as I do that in relation to what she's interpolated about today, this is completely irrelevant. I stand by what I said about the basis of international law, namely that it is possible to look at this issue differently. It's well argued along both lines. It is therefore not possible to say that you stand on your own right, and that therefore everyone who disagrees with you, in that case acts contrary to international law. That was my point, and I'm still at it. I also have to say that I am more than surprised when Kristin Halvorsen asks about what was the strategy for knowing more than what was American and British information. The strategy for that was the weapons inspectors! It was rice. 1441! It was such an open and so clear strategy, and if Kristin Halvorsen hasn't yet got it with him, I just have to say that I'm stretching my hands in the weather. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e1145	It is so nice that this question is raised, and I have a few points I want to make. One is that the realities surrounding this are not yet clear. The second is that because the realities were not clear at the time when we were invited to join in supporting the war, we could not support it. But it was not so strange that the Foreign Minister and the Government had to take seriously the information that came. You didn't have a chance to reject them, and you didn't have a chance to say that this didn't matter to the position we had to take. However, we had to take the position that we could not support the war because we had not been able to conclude on the basis of the information that was available. What are we going to do for the future? There's only one thing to do, and that's to hold fast to what Norway said, and as there was a clear majority for here in this Chamber, that there's only one international body that's authorized to approve a war, an attack war, to renounce a regime or make a humanitarian intervention, and that's the UN Security Council and the instruments that the Security Council establishes. Another thing was that SV did not accept this principle, which is enshrined in the UN Charter, because Kristin Halvorsen went against war anyway, even though the UN Security Council should have approved it. But the rest of us stood by what is stated in the UN Charter, namely that the UN Security Council has this authority. And of course, there are other considerations, such as: that as much independent information as possible can be useful. For anyone pursuing foreign policy, it is important to have independent information. I don't think Norway could have done that in this context, but I would say that it would have been a great advantage for example. Europe could build more capacity on independent information, so that we could also pursue a foreign policy based on our own information, not just on those of others. Finally, I would like to say that there are a lot of questions that can be asked after what has happened, for example.Why, then, is the world so light in the genocide that took place in Iraq over all these years? Why didn't the information come forward? Questions have been raised as to why, for example: the UN was not more able to report on what was going on. For example, SV was silent. questions at the grounding zone which was the only effective means of protecting the Kurds. And I have to ask if it's certain that the United States and the United Kingdom were trying to mislead the world. Or is it perhaps that all that had happened, like the gassing of the Kurds and the killing of 1 million people in the war against Iran, gave rise to suspicion that in this country there was actually an aggression and perhaps also a capacity to relaunch a war?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e1158	The interpellant has excused me, but in my ears and in my eyes, the interpellant's text contains an assumption or an insinuation that we, in Norway, too, led the debate on Iraq on wrong premises. It is strange that the Socialist Left continues to have problems recognising that the Government and the Stortinget actually chose the safest possible basis for the Norwegian position on Iraq. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has, both in the past and today, been persistently unambiguous and asserted that only verifiable and objective international investigations in Iraq could clarify the issue of any Iraqi weapons of mass destruction. That's why we stuck to the UN track. That is why we supported them. 1441. Therefore, there is also rice. 1483 a logical continuation. In the debate on the foreign policy statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 20 February this year, Kristin Halvorsen very closely spoke about Norway's attitude to follow the so-called UN track. She claimed, among other things, in the debate: ‘The statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs that the Norwegian perception of the UN track is at all times what the United Nations ultimately decides for the Security Council to adopt.’ Like it was supposed to be so weird. Here we should get a clarification. Does the Socialist Left believe that we should work through the UN to resolve international conflicts, but only commit ourselves when the majority decisions fall into Norwegian taste? With such an attitude, one should be quite optimistic about believing that others will take us seriously when we refer to the multilateral forum for the resolution of threatening conflicts. In a line change during the foreign debate, Kristin Halvorsen was also challenged whether it was wrong for Norway to vote for travel. 1441, and what the options might have been. There was no clarifying answer to that question. Not that time either. I am among the many who are becoming more and more amazed by the Socialist Left Party, a Socialist Left Party where opinions are strong about what is against, but where we are still waiting for the party's alternative solutions in important foreign and security policy issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e1176	The interpellation of the representative Kristin Halvorsen bears the impression that she has always opposed the war against Saddam Hussein, and that she feels it is a pity that the despot was removed. It seems that it would have been better to stick your head in the sand and forget that the terrorist regime of Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction and used them both against their own inhabitants and in the war against Iran. It also seems that the Gulf War is forgotten. Saddam's despotism was a threat to world peace. The dictator also supported terrorist networks that were and are spread across large parts of the world. Terrorism against its own population also ensured that there was no major overall opposition to the regime. Last year, the UN Security Council was adopted. 1441. This resolution called for immediate disarmament. It also required the immediate destruction of weapons of mass destruction and equipment and components for the production of this type of weapon. Furthermore, evidence was required that this had been carried out and that it was to be submitted to the United Nations within a given deadline. As we all know, Iraq had previously withdrawn from the UN resolutions they committed themselves to following the last Gulf war, and did not comply with these demands. The result was that, in close cooperation with the United Kingdom and with the support of several countries, the United States went to action to remove a mad despot from power. The Iraq war was a victory for the democratic process in a country that has been heavily exploited by a mad despot. In polls that have been conducted in this country without a democratic tradition, among others. The newspaper Saudi Daily Okaz, it turns out that almost 70 pst. by the people who asked believe that Iraq and the Iraqi people are better off after Saddam's fall. This clearly shows what we have known for a long time, that people wanted to get rid of this tyrant who forced so much suffering and helplessness on their people. With this in mind, it is important for Norway to demonstrate its willingness to help our allies with the reconstruction and democratisation of Iraq, which is essential for the country to develop into a democratic society, and it should support Norway instead of suspecting the motive for the action against Saddam.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e1191	Norway did not support the Iraq war, and we did not join the war in Iraq. We chose to stand on the United Nations track. On such serious issues, there must be no individual countries or groups of countries, but the world society through the UN that determines the direction of a solution. Therefore, we warn the United States and the United Kingdom against acting without anchor in a new decision of the Security Council. For the Christian People's Party it was quite central that the use of military power should be one of the very last resorts when everyone else was tried, and if the option was worse. The war against Iraq was waged without authorization from a new clear decision of the Security Council. There were also other reasons why a war could not be supported. The government's attitude, which we support, was not based solely on a constitutional and legal assessment. The government reached its conclusion on the basis of a health assessment. The UN initially had good arguments to push the Iraqi regime. The regime was a real trick, with its many invasions of neighboring countries, negligeeing and liquidation of its own population and ignoring and violating UN resolutions. We're going to remember that our information was not based on information from the United States and the United Kingdom, but on information from the UN's weapons inspectors and the International Atomic Energy Agency. They found some of them. biological weapons program that Iraq had hidden. The weapons inspectors could also report just before the war that they had a strong suspicion that some 10,000 liters of anthrax were still to be found in Iraq. Iraq couldn't do anything for about 1,000 tons of chemical combatants they meant to have destroyed. The inspectors also believed that Iraq had enough both — and was still capable of producing — rockets capable of delivering weapons of mass destruction in contravention of the UN's 150-km limit. Bush and Blair could have led a strong case based on information only from the UN inspectors. But they didn't. Many suggest that Bush and Blair exaggerated the treason that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction. Bush gets criticism of this among politicians in the United States. Joe Biden, Vice President of the Senate's Foreign Affairs Committee, made an article on 1 October this year that marks a signal with the Bush Administration's Iraq strategy. Biden thinks the administration was exaggerating, spreading intelligence and linking it to Saddam and Iraq and September 11 without any basis for it. This can have very serious consequences. The weakness of the Anglo-American presented risks damaging the people to their own politicians, and trust the world and close allies have to the United States and the United Kingdom. Both the United Kingdom and the United States are our close allies. They will still be. As President Bush said in conversation with Prime Minister Bondevik during the Iraq conflict, there are naturally discussions between friends and respect for each other's views. The final answer to what happened here, we don't have yet, as the representative Igland said, we have to wait for that. Therefore, it should not be judged today either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e1206	The centre party believes it is important that we have a discussion in this Chamber in connection with the circumstances surrounding the Iraq war. There are awfully many who have said that the truth is the first victim of war, and it's just as true even though many have said it. The United States and the United Kingdom justified the war against Saddam Hussein with the danger of Iraqi possession of weapons of mass destruction, and possible use. In retrospect, we haven't been able to figure out that there were weapons of mass destruction in the category that we were talking about. It's a very special situation, it's a very serious situation. I am unusually happy that the Norwegian government ended up at a position where one said no to war. But I still believe that there is a basis for asking some questions also about the assessments that the Government made in that process. Before the war broke out, the situation was that the weapons inspectors were at work. The weapons inspectors were not allowed to complete their job. The weapons inspections showed actual progress at the time they were interrupted. It is, of course, very serious when the Americans and the British are not doing what is in the United Nations Charter, that one is trying out all peaceful ways before one goes to war. Therefore, it was with great amazement that the Central Party registered that, in the event of the outbreak of war, the Minister of Foreign Affairs primarily regretted that the Security Council did not agree, in practice, that one did not agree to follow the Americans, and that he was very little concerned about the principal aspects of the failure of the arms inspectors to complete the job, and that UN and international law were being undermined. The statements of that time give the impression that you actually believed more in the information that came from the Americans and the British than you believed in the weapons inspectors who were working in Iraq. To the representative Lilletun, I must say that there was also a development in the reports from the weapons inspectors, and at the end of the work of the weapons inspectors, Hans Blix went very far in saying that there was nothing to find here. There is a lot to say about this, but I was amazed when, in an NTB message early in August, I saw that the Minister of Foreign Affairs was quoted as follows: ‘It is not a matter of whether the United States and the United Kingdom went to war in Iraq on false premises, because Norway did not support the war and therefore cannot say that we feel led away.’ I think it is a strange approach to truth, and that it is a strange approach to a situation where the Security Council may have been misinformed. I hope the government takes this more seriously than you can get the impression from that kind of statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e1224	I really think this is a little sympathetic, for the same reason that Åslaug Haga ended up with. It's actually the case that there is a war going on against a country, with a reason and against a clear UN mandate, with an argument that those who made it knew was wrong, and knew that was manipulated. They did this with open eyes to legitimize a war, and war is the last resort. Nor is it that anyone can sum up that the war against Iraq has so far been super-successful. It's actually so that the situation is pretty unclear. There are many issues on the basis of this that we are going to live with for many years to come. It does not relate to whether Saddam Hussein was a despot or not. He was a despot, and he was built up of the West. He had gasted the Kurds, and he had committed very gross violations of human rights while he was sponsored by the West. That's the sad background. What is the situation, and as I think it's funny, is that it seems that the foreign minister's indignation is much greater to SV and the fact that we are addressing this debate and trying to raise the questions that are coming here than to the fact that it was presented as evidence, as the reason for a war that did not have a mandate under international law sufficient to allow Norway – the Government – to support it, claims that were directly wrong. Why isn't the Foreign Minister indignant that it was claimed that Iraq had enriched uranium at a time when the United States and the CIA knew it was wrong? Why is the Foreign Minister not indignant that Tony Blair is presenting evidence that Iraq can go to war at 45 minutes' notice, when you know it's wrong, and that it's manipulated with old tasks? It surprises me, because that brings us into the future. It is this attitude that we must ensure that we take a settlement in relation to future conflicts. Now I believe that even if you do not succeed in getting the big concessions from the Right and the Foreign Minister in this debate that it is not possible to rely on information from the United States and the United Kingdom in the future, the matter will, of course, just that. Norway will have to take all the information with a pinch of salt in relation to future conflicts and make the necessary balances. In addition, we need to get more alternative information. That's the big cross of thought about how we're going to be able to inform ourselves in a difficult world in the future, that our closest allies can't be a guide to the information we can trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e1236	Both Kristin Halvorsen and Åslaug Haga have in common that they always interpret what others have said, so that it suits their own arguments. The father with that is that then the imagination can well be free, and so it has become in these cases. When Åslaug Haga makes it very serious to say that it was implicit, as I believe she said, when I said that the Security Council should agree, that I criticized that there was no agreement to follow the Americans, Åslaug Haga knows that it is wrong. She knows she doesn't say it right from the Storting's pulpit, and yet she does. I'm being raised when representatives almost unreserved can actually say that from the Great Britain's pulpit. What Åslaug Haga should do is go back to what I said, and then she should put it to the ground and not her own imagination about what fits. I'm upset about politicians who act that way. When it comes to the question of how we handled the whole matter, I understand that Kristin Halvorsen now accepted in many ways without saying it still accepted that we had an arrangement to handle information. It was just following the journey. 1441 and the inspectors. And to make it understandable, I have to quote what I said at the end of the statement to which Kristin Halvorsen himself referred. I said the following: ‘I assume that the weapons inspectors are now reviewing and assessing more closely the information provided by the US side and reporting back to the Security Council.’ Kristin Halvorsen had a question: how would we handle it? We handled it there and then, and in such a way that led to the result that is. I agree with Kristin Halvorsen, this has been in many ways sympathetic, and so the consoling thing is that Kristin Halvorsen is trying to push on me and others a role and positions that others other than me are having to defend.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e1250	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e1256	We then go to voting in the matters that are listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-16.ana.ud989e7184	In Case No: 6 and 7 no voting theme is available.
