ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e91	The representative of Åslaug Haga will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e94	On behalf of the representative, Alter Skreisestad and myself, I would like to propose to reintroduce the temporary law on the right of access to police records until 31 December 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e99	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e113	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups: right 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e122	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on good and constructive cooperation. There is a broad consensus on most comments in this setting. There is only one suggestion, from SV, which I am referring to here. I expect that the various parties will explain their particular comments during the debate. In 1999, a majority in the UK, on a proposal from SV, decided that Norway would reach the OECD average level of research effort measured as a share of gross domestic product in the next few years. The Research Communication, and following the treatment of the Storting, set 2005 as the year for which the objective is to be achieved. By the end of 2003, we will probably need between 8 and 9 billion dollars to achieve this goal, depending on how developments are going to be in the countries with which we are going to compare. We assume that the public will have to finance approx. half, the research budget needs to be increased by DKK 4 to 4.5 billion over the two years up to 2005, i.e. in the years 2004 and 2005. We have also adopted a reform of higher education which requires closer follow-up of students, new forms of teaching, new forms of evaluation, etc. All of this will require more scientific people. A broad majority of the Committee considers that both universities and higher education institutions should continue to be research-based. The training of researchers shall be based on and shall focus on integration into the professional environments. SV believes that the main model of doctoral positions should be 3+1 years, that the grant holders have one year in addition to what they use for the task itself, and that this should be linked to the obligation to teach as part of the overall environmental effort. We believe that by drawing the scholarship holders closer into the environment and imposing tasks on the rest of the students, this will also help recruit more Master's students, because they come into contact with the research environment in a different way than they would otherwise do. In addition, we in SV believe that the estimate for the number of scientific people added by the Government is somewhat low. We choose to use the NIFU estimate in terms of the need for scientists in the coming years. That's why we have our own proposal that the increase in the number of scholarship positions should be 400 in the coming years, as opposed to the Government's proposal, which adds up to 350. I would like to remind you again that the research report operated with an increase of 150-200. After Storting's treatment, this was increased somewhat, and now it's increased even more, precisely because we see that the need is greater than what we assumed. We believe that one of the proposals of the department does not meet the need we will receive in the coming years. In addition, an overall committee agrees that there is a need to increase the number of postdoctoral positions. It is important that we be able to create continuity and coherence and facilitate a career path for those who want to invest in a career in the university and higher education sectors. We know that when a person is finished with a doctorate, it is often difficult to get a permanent position. Then it's very important that we have jobs that can catch up with the people who want to bet on such a career, and that's where post-doctoral positions come in. We in SV believe that postdoctoral positions as a general rule should have a length of four years. Both doctoral students and post-doctoral students have temporary employment until they get a permanent position. We think it's important that post-doctoral positions also have a duration of four years to get a continuity. We also believe that post-doctoral students should be part of the integrated environment at the institutions, at the institute, at the faculty, so that they can also be used in education in a different way from that of today. In the end, we're the only party that has a note that pay is an important recruitment tool. Giving these doctoral students real pay is an important matter to ensure the necessary recruitment. We continue to be able to recruit people to most of the positions in most of the subjects, but there are problems in some disciplines, and I think that the problems will increase in the future if we don't manage to use wages deliberately to secure more for these positions. We propose in our note that ‘the salary level of doctoral scholarships should be at least equal to that which is the starting salary level in alternative public positions’. It should be the level to which you are going to apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e144	Rolf Rikham has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e147	The Advocate General, the Chairman of the Committee, gave a good presentation of the Committee's position. I believe that the big message and the setting provide a good basis for increasing the recruitment of scientific staff to our universities and colleges. I would also like to underline the great degree of agreement that the setting bears the mark. The implementation of the quality reform and the stepping up of research efforts to the average OECD level are the basis for the recruitment needs of the sector. The working party believes that quality improvement and personnel needs need to be addressed in a combination of new recruitment, better framework conditions and more efficient use of resources. We also base the principles that most professional positions should be combined teaching and research positions and that education should be research-based. The Labour Party believes that the implementation of the quality reform, the strengthening of the research sector and the increase in recruitment positions will require an increase in the number of scientific posts. In my opinion, this is underestimated in the message, or perhaps more correctly described: the government is somewhat restrained in the assessment of resource needs. And it's more than nuances when the majority point out that one doesn't need significant increase and the minority positive says that we need an increase. I also refer here to the budget debate on appropriations for the institutions and, in particular, the means of conversion to quality reform. Greater freedom and flexibility for institutions are desirable, for example: in relation to the use of human resources. However, this must not mean a discharge for the ministry or admissibility. Important principles and considerations must be respected. The university and higher education sectors are too short in the recruitment of women. There are far fewer women here than men in fixed scientific positions, and the higher the proportion in the job structure coming. Here we need a more comprehensive and comprehensive effort. Important measures are to maintain the system of designating scientific positions for women, developing skills and providing good welfare for families with young children. At the same time, we consider it necessary to evaluate and evaluate the processes and criteria for recruitment. Over time, it may be necessary to build up some disciplines in order to strengthen others. However, we need to have funding to enable the maintenance of the subject after an in-depth assessment, where there is no high demand at the moment or permanently. Norway needs an increased number of doctoral candidates, and we agree that this needs to be achieved through a combination of better streamlining in organised research training and stepping up the number of scholarship positions. The Workers' Party is in favour of the Government's extended plan for increasing the number of doctoral candidates for the period up to 2007, but we will reserve the right to assess the need along the way and take a concrete position on the number of scholarships in the annual budgets. Of course, career opportunities and wages play a major role in recruiting for scientific positions at our universities and colleges. These are familiar elements, but they are probably not perceived to have been followed up by many of the employees of our institutions. I would also like to emphasise the role of institutions in motivating and following up research candidates. Important things here can be the form of teaching and the relationship between the student and the supervisor. Scientific staff should be encouraged to be active in relation to students who show an interest in a research career. This also applies to master’s degree students. Information is an important prerequisite here. Research sprouts should be caught as early as possible. Recruitment is also about dissemination, dissemination of research results to people most both in order to increase the level of knowledge and create a social debate. It can increase the status of researchers and society's willingness to invest in research. Research results have to go to the audience. Yes, I also want to hit a blow for the students' production, the main tasks. I would also call this a kind of research, and there's a lot of information potential and dust in the warehouses of the university libraries. The transition from student production to research candidate production needs to be reduced. Being part of the professional environment of institutions is important, with participation in education and guidance at the centre. Scholarships are a resource for institutions and must demonstrate flexibility to complete their work. At the same time, institutions need to be secured staff and resources to guide and educate the increased number of scholarship holders. The way to the doctoral degree is too long today. The Labour Party believes that the research training should continue to be three years, but asks the Ministry to evaluate, in cooperation with the sector, whether the training period should be extended to four years. We need to increase research efforts in Norway to secure our common future. The Labour Party has high expectations for the quality reform of higher education and research. Everything is not dependent on money. But at the end of the day, there is a question of securing financial framework conditions for institutions that allow them to follow the good intentions. But there's another bowl, and this we'll come back to in the next budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e185	The size has adopted a stepping-up plan for Norwegian research. During 2005, the total research effort shall be at least at the OECD average level. The size has also passed through Innst. S. No 337 for 2000–2001 on the quality reform based on the principles of higher education, which poses many and major challenges to universities and higher education, this applies in particular to the recruitment of teaching and research positions. St.meld. No 35 for 2001-2002, which we are dealing with today, shows both the will and the ability to increase quality and to strengthen the conditions for research. The notification contains several changes in the course of research and personnel policy in the sector. I would like to highlight in particular the requirements of the management of institutions to focus more on strategic developments in their own research environments. The need to satisfy research conditions in the disposal of own budgets requires the provision of stronger professional management. It's an ambitious escalation plan for doctoral scholarship positions it's added up to. This is necessary to ensure the necessary recruitment of scientific personnel. The plan adds up to an increase of 1,600 doctoral positions over five years. When we know that Norway has had a significantly lower number of doctoral degrees than our neighbouring countries, this is necessary. With us, the number of doctoral degrees has increased by 6.5 pst. the year in the 1990s, while the corresponding figures in Sweden are 10 pst. The Government's goal of training 1 100 doctoral students annually in the coming years – an increase of 60 pst. – will ensure access to doctoral students for universities and higher education, as well as ensure increased recruitment to other establishments, including: in business. From the Right, we want to express satisfaction with the broad connection to the Storing Message. The Government shall be associated with all the main items of the message. The priority should be given to strengthening the research conditions and improving quality rather than extending the staff and stepping up the plan for doctoral scholarships. Other key elements, such as improved throughput and degree of completion in research training, the continuation of combined research and teaching positions and the strengthening of professional leadership responsibility, are also widely supported. Furthermore, the notification provides the necessary room for greater boldness in the use of tools to recruit and retain the most competent staff, even if this could lead to untraditional discrimination. All of this, as well as the other main points of the Communication, are important measures to increase the quality and strengthen the conditions under which research is carried out. The small degree of disagreement in the Committee has focused on the need and desirability of detailed management and the dictates of universities and colleges. For the right, it is important to point out the freedom and autonomy of institutions. This freedom and autonomy also involve responsibility for ensuring good educational opportunities, career paths and creating opportunities for the recruitment of teachers and researchers. So we haven't seen either the necessity or the desire to be as detailed in our remarks as the Committee's minority. This does not necessarily mean that we disagree with the purely content, but the question is how detailed the Committee and the Storing should be to the institutions. It must also be said that minority comments contain some advice that is so obvious that the need to say something about them might not be there. Institutions must be given freedom within the framework set out in the notification. The majority of the Committee, with the right, agrees with the Government that the quality reform should be possible without a significant increase in permanent professional staff. However, it is difficult to have a safe view of this at that time. At least the majority do not have a safe view of it. However, we assume that both the institutions and the Government closely follow developments in this area and, if necessary, come back to this in the annual budgetary proceedings. Finally, let me point out that new demands for follow-up of the students, longer semesters, etc. must not result in a further reduction in available research time for scientific staff. Institutions have professional management responsibilities both to ensure that the research obligation is fulfilled and to facilitate the provision of time. Last but not least, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough and constructive discussion within the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e204	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e207	Jan Olav Olsen used as a reason that the Right did not participate in any part of the comments, that this was detail management, and they would therefore not be involved in them. The right and the government parties have withdrawn some of the remarks that are largely under the responsibility of the institutions — and call this detailed management. If the message and our setting were not to go into any details, there might not be that much left in the message or in our setting. But what is important for the minority – and as Jan Olav Olsen calls detail management – is to tell institutions, universities and colleges that they must have structure, and that they must have models for how to recruit people for research positions and encourage people to take a doctorate, a postdoctoral position, etc. We write a lot about the integrated environment and the need to integrate these new doctoral students into the professional environments. It didn't feel the right need either. We write a part about these scholarship holders and postdoctoral positions being important resources in a professional environment in order to be able to conduct research-based education, etc., and we write about what's going on in mentoring, that the institutions have structural organisation to provide good guidance, and that this is not just the responsibility of the individual supervisor, but of an overall environment. It was these things that came out of the right. The right obviously did not need to give these leaders to the institutions. I would therefore like to ask Jan Olav Olsen: what is so detailed within this in relation to the rest of what we write in the setting, and the rest of what is in the message?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e218	The committee leader's reference to minority comments is correct, and that's part of the points that he himself mentioned, which we think are unnecessary detailed management. We believe that within the framework of the communication, the institutions themselves must have freedom in how to organise this training. Of course, we believe that universities and colleges need to have structure, to have models. Of course, good relations are needed between supervisors and those preparing doctorate, which is one of the factors that the minority draws on. We do not think it is necessary for the Committee and the Storting to give advice in such details as are self-evident and that we know that every institution with respect for itself will have to follow up in its own way. We also believe that universities and colleges should be able to follow this up on their own without necessarily giving detailed advice on how this should be. But, as I said, not being involved in these comments doesn't necessarily mean that we disagree with that. Clearly, we agree that there must be models. We agree that there must be structures. We agree that there must be good relations. But we don't think it's necessary for this to be detailed by the Storting or the Committee. But – for the third time – let me stress that we do not disagree with the need for good relations and good models.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e227	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e231	Recruitment is difficult. It appears that a field is not controllable. Isn't it strange that people's desire for a career doesn't seem to be in line with the decisions made here in the house? The proposals presented in the Communication require institutions to pay greater attention to the strategic development of their own research environments and to take far more account of research conditions in the disposal of their budgets. That should be common sense. But this obviously has not been the case. The assessment of the need for qualified research and teaching positions for the public sector and the business community refers in the notification to those with a doctoral degree, which represents approximately two thirds of the total number of posts in the sector. When recruitment in the public sector in particular appears to be a recurring problem in many areas, it may indicate several factors: the adoption of unclear decisions, the adoption of too many decisions, and the repeal of one decision, or, simply, the failure of the framework conditions. In other words, lack of predictability. The majority’s willingness to combine positions can also be a contributing factor. The progress party does not share this principle position, which we notice in the setting. The Progress Party sees no purpose in teaching all researchers at all levels of the higher education structure. Neither does it seem that the students are equally impressed with the ability of all the professors to convey their knowledge in an easily understood and interesting way. The party of progress is of the basic opinion that teaching for lower-level education must not be carried out by researchers in a combined model. At this level, education is most important. However, we are of the opinion that this is more and more necessary the higher the educational structure the individual student comes to. This principle, which we wanted to assess, was promoted in the Inner East. S. No 110 for 1999-2000 on research, but was downgraded. Although our proposal did not have the support of a majority, this is still our policy. Such an approach would provide significantly more flexibility, while at the same time assessing the quality of individual readers at a lower level without the individual's research efforts being decisive. The progress of the students and the acquired qualities of the students in the desired disciplines had become the most important factor. Research as a career and career goal would also become clear, and research would have a clear priority profile. This, in turn, could have facilitated the work of recruiting. When this principle cannot be given a majority, the Progress Party has taken this step inwards and is dealing with the system that the majority wants in its position. The Progress Party would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation in this regard. We have had no problem going with, among other things. The government parties to form a majority because what we think is the best possible solution model within the system we have today, which we are not particularly pleased with. With regard to the quotaing of women to higher education positions, our view of women's quotaing is fairly clear, and I'm not going to draw up a long debate on this right now. The measures specifically mentioned in relation to the child/care situation for the individual are equally addressed to men, and therefore are not a women’s political stance alone. With this I will be allowed to thank you for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e254	The Committee's position demonstrates a high degree of political agreement on the recruitment of research. The rapporteur has explained the Committee's position. The Christian People's Party is part of the majority that endorses the Government's announcement. There is a broad consensus on increasing the number of scholarship holders. In the view of the Christian People's Party, government estimates represent a realistic analysis of needs and objectives. When the Storting discussed the research report for a few years ago, the majority went in to increase the number of scholarship holders. In retrospect, it has been a little difficult to find qualified applicants for all these new scholarships. I think this can also be the challenge with the escalation we're now adding up to. It is important that the institutions contribute to research-oriented master's programmes and demonstrate the possibilities of research for their students. It may help to obtain qualified applicants for awarded scholarships and for research in general. In addition, we need more post-doctoral scholarships to secure professionals for research and to create career paths in research. The Christian People's Party believes that the institutions have great self-interest in facilitating good research education. They also have a great responsibility. I trust that they will take that responsibility seriously. As far as the length of research training is concerned, there are several arguments in favour of a four-year education, and this is, as far as I understand, a recommendation from a panel of the Norwegian Research Council. However, the Christian People's Party wants closer dialogue with the sector and investigation of all the consequences before we can draw such a conclusion on extending the main model from three to four years. In the Christian People's Party, we believe it is a strength for education to combine education and research. Here the Christian People's Party distinguishes itself from the Advance Party. Combined positions are therefore desirable also for lower-level or lower-level education in higher education. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that there is still a need to maintain the system of earmarked scientific positions for women. We need scholarships for women to recruit for research. However, in addition to positions and scholarships, we also need to facilitate practical and social arrangements relating to the granting of maternity rights and also childcare facilities. All of this can help to improve the recruitment of women for research. Finally, the Christian People's Party also supports the assessment of a separate post category of senior lecturer in higher education in order to obtain meritorious work and thus also to increase the possibilities of recruiting for research in the higher education sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e271	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e274	I have a comment and some questions for the representative Arne Lyngstad. The Christian People's Party has also signed up from some of the comments made by the minority on the responsibility of institutions to facilitate a good research environment, to integrate doctoral students into the environment and to have good doctoral training, good guidance systems with a leading supervisor, and that the overall environment should be responsible for these doctoral students. The minority writes this to underline the responsibility and to ensure that they are able to carry out the work during the period allocated to them. Are there any fundamental reasons why the Christian People's Party will not participate in these formulations? Do they disagree with any of the possible statements? It is important that this occurs because this is an attempt to give some signals to the institutions. Then I have another question, about using wages as an instrument of recruitment. Does the Christian People's Party see that wages are a necessary tool? I refer to what has happened within the teachers' groups, where we were given a paycheck that would help secure recruitment. Does the Christian People's Party believe that there is a link between pay levels and recruitment, and is the Christian People's Party willing to join in using wages? And what may be the reason why the Christian People's Party does not agree with SV that the salary level of fellows should be at the level of comparable positions in the state? So another question about education: Arne Lyngstad basically agreed that the period should be of 3+1 years, with one year for teaching. I perceived him so that they had to assess it more closely. [[The President clubs.]] [[The President clubs again.]] How should teaching requirements be met if grant holders are not to be used for it in the years ahead, as we do not increase the number of permanent posts?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e287	The President will note that the questions have to be asked within the regulatory time for replies!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e290	With regard to the last question from the representative, I agree that fellows who are in doctoral education should definitely also have a teaching component in their education. But where we're a little bit different from the representative of Rikvam, we're talking about post-doctoral positions and scholarships. Because there we are of the feeling that they don't necessarily have to have teaching components. There will be a negotiation case between the individual grantee and the institution. A postdoctoral position may well be a purely scientific one where teaching is not necessarily the norm. As far as the doctoral student is concerned, I think it's natural that he also has a teaching component. This may be in relation to some of the courses given by the institutions, which are within the field in which the doctoral student is engaged. When the representative Rikham tries to make it so that there is a big fundamental distinction here by the majority not agreeing that an institution should include the grantee in its research environment, that is not the right thing. The majority say there's no fundamental difference. We say that the institutions have a significant interest in having a good research environment with a high quality and a good international network, and that the competence of the research community is reflected in the guidance provided by the institution to the doctoral students. There are no fundamental differences here, but in a lot of things, there's probably more to language, I think. Finally, in the case of wages, I think it belongs in wage negotiations, in which the Stortingen should be careful to settle.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e301	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e304	The goal of higher education and research of a higher international class requires both wide recruitment and extra bet on the best. At the bottom, students must be able to concentrate on the study, so that they have an economy and housing situation that makes it possible to do their best. In addition, institutions must have framework conditions that make them attractive both for students and for teachers and researchers. High quality study also requires good local, adequate equipment and fewer students per year. learner than is the case today. This must be at the bottom. Then recruitment is a theme. So far in the debate, I would like to mention a little bit about the relationship between the research environment and society, which is absolutely crucial to ensuring the practical use of research results both in business development and management. Research and development will become increasingly important for industrial development and jobs in Norway, both in the private and public sectors. The scope and quality of our research and development will have much to say for competitive potential. Such a good contact between the research community and companies will also make the research more meaningful and interesting. We in the Centre Party thought it was a pleasure that the Committee agreed on many points on how the quality reform should be given a boost. It has been said that it will facilitate better follow-up of the individual student, and here the Centre is clear that the quality reform and the escalation plan will require an increase in the number of candidates, more than has been added by the Government. There is not much money to put in. A total of up to DKK 10 billion will have to be raised until 2005, according to the setting, of which at least DKK 4 billion will be expected to grow in public licenses. The principle of combining educational and research settings is good. There is a lot to get here, especially given that research results can be used more as a motivation factor for the students. The interaction between the educational staff and the student groups and the potential for enthusiasm for the subject and the subject area can be decisive for the number of researchers in the future. When it comes to the recruitment situation relative to wages, it is at least an important tool, no matter how you look at it. Recruiting women has its own chapter. That's good. The system of ear-marked scientific settings for women shall continue. I would then recommend that one look at the context when it comes to the scientific career and tasks of baby mothers, and that this be more remarkable than it has so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e319	The Committee's position shows that there is broad political consensus on recruitment policy in the university and higher education sectors. I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough work on the matter and for its insightful, precise and, in my opinion, interesting comments on the communication. I am also happy to note that the message has been well received in the professional environments. In my opinion, the message and setting mark a clear policy change. The research conditions shall be strengthened and the new recruitment dimension shall be dimensioned so as not to undermine the objective of better research conditions for all. This is also the way to put quality on the agenda in recruitment policy. There must be a quality-enhancing balance between human resources and research conditions. Norway continues to face major research challenges, but at the same time Norwegian research is now very positive. A good research budget has been adopted and there are happy signs that business will now invest more in research. We've been given new incentives to commercialise research. At the same time, a number of quality measures are being implemented, including, for example: the creation of 13 new and first centres of excellence. The Research Council is being reorganised and a new main board has been appointed. Quality reform also contributes to raising the quality of Norwegian research. The examination of this Communication also takes important steps to strengthen Norwegian research. A sharp increase in the number of new scholarships envisaged is adopted. One hundred doctoral students are to be trained annually. There is a marked change in the course of course which means that greater emphasis should be placed on better research conditions and the quality of research before the creation of new professional positions, if any. A much more strategic human resources policy is expected, including: make more flexible use of professional staff, including: through individual determination of units of teaching and research time. Measures are discussed to stimulate more people to take research training and to choose a career path in research, whether in the university and higher education sectors, in the institute sector or in industry. These are, of course, still challenges. One of them is precisely linked to the research training that has been evaluated, partly not so positive. Although the quality of the thesis is high, the flow rate and the degree of completion are too low. The evaluation report has now been consulted, and the Ministry is currently systematicising the consultation opinions and will start a dialogue with the sector before finalising any changes in the training of researchers, including their length. With regard to what the institutions themselves can do to make research education more visible and make a research career more attractive, I think the Committee has come up with many exciting ideas. Some also talk about fumigation in Norwegian research. It's a truth with modifications. The main problem is actually not anti-abuse, but old age at the time of addition, on average 42 years. Then it doesn't take that long to get off soon. So the challenge is again to do something about the flow and thus the average age of those who start a research course, and of the doctoral students. It is also a challenge to increase international mobility, so that we can attract more scientific staff from abroad and contribute to our going out and recruiting more women for top positions among scientific staff. I welcome the Committee's comments on this point. Finally, there is so much positive in Norwegian research right now, both quantitatively and qualitatively, that I think there is reason to say, hope and believe that we are seeing the results of the government's and the Storting's investment after examining the research report that the Bondevik I government presented a few years ago. If we stick to this strategy and have a long-term perspective, I think we can see even more positive results in the years to come. The settings we are considering today will also contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e340	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e343	I think the message gives a good description of an area that concerns both the Department and the Workers' Party. It's about equality. Despite many measures, there are far fewer women than men in permanent scientific positions. The proportion decreases its higher in the job hierarchy you come to. Some — perhaps central — plugs are pointed to, such as the time when research funds are to be attracted or the issue of publication requirements. I think it's particularly interesting what's written in the message, that maybe an informal network of men deprioritises women, the so-called glass roof culture. The message also says that if this is the case, you are set to enter with positive special treatment. Then at least you have to look into whether that is the case. I guess that's what we in the minority have thought, that by going through the recruitment and recruitment process, you see whether this can be just some of the down-priority elements. I fully agree that it should be maintained as correct that scientific positions can be earmarked for women, even though it is known that there can be uncertainty about this in the spring related to the decision of the EFTA Court. But I don't think it's enough to leave responsibility for and follow-up to the institutions. The Ministry points out in a proposal that this could be a measure. It is said that it is necessary to examine whether an incentive scheme is possible. I expected the Department and the Council of State to say more ‘we will’ and ‘we will’. As I have seen the Council of State in other areas, there is more power to act, even though there has been disagreement, but there is a total consensus here that the proportion of women is going up. So we need a more comprehensive and comprehensive effort to ensure a fair share of women at all levels in some of our most important social institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e353	I agree that what is being addressed here is a real underlying serious problem. There is no real reason why women should be so poorly represented at the top level because women, unlike in previous times, are now training as much as men. In fact, they do it better at some levels of education. So this is a serious underlying problem. There is a very weak representation of women at the top level, but it is actually even weaker in some other countries in Europe, and is considered to be a major European problem in the sector in general. I think that provides a good basis for the case we are going through, where we are now awaiting a judgment in the EFTA Court. We have in particular outlined some tools. We're going a long way in using instruments in Norway because we've been told in our law that we can actually run some kind of radical quota. We do not know all the reasons why it evolves as it does in terms of the female share at the top level in the sector, but I am fully open to discussing different types of action. I don't think we should run the institutions in detail. We have a good dialogue with the sector in terms of human resources policy and human resources strategy. I'm completely open to discussing that. But we are now at a stage where we have to await the EFTA Court and see what will be the conclusion there. The overall measures we can use will depend a little on the results there. But I think this is an important matter, and I'm completely open to discussing different kinds of actions. After all, I believe it is also important to entrust the institutions with the responsibility of human resources. I think the institutions themselves are very aware that something needs to be done here, and the designation measure has been requested by the sector itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e360	I hope that the Government will also have a good dialogue with the sector even though the resource situation. In this case too, there is reason to recall that the ambitions must be followed up in the resource allocation. When I have that approach, it is for the purpose of a committee comment that a majority consisting, among other things, of by the Party of Advancement and Government Parties, it appears that: ‘The Government of the Communication expects that the quality reform – through efficiency effects and better use of existing teaching resources – can be implemented without significant input of permanent professional staff. The majority do not dare to have a safe view of this issue at the current stage of the implementation phase, assuming that both the institutions themselves and the Government are closely monitoring developments in this area. It is also important to ensure that no new demands for closer follow-up of the students, longer semesters etc. leads to a further reduction in the time available for own research for scientific staff.’;» So we're back to the idea of running with the combined positions. But what makes me dwell on this is that a number of committees are responsible for the government to follow developments in the resource field carefully. We receive a message of concern from universities that the quality reform can almost end up on the runway. It is important that there be a close and good follow-up, and that the Government follow the comment and ensure that there are sufficient resources. If not, this is just talking and nothing else. There may even be a reduction in research efforts in some situations where scientific staff are used primarily to take care of the students in the first semester when they come as students, and that is certainly not the intention. So I ask the Council of State to make sure that there is a close and good dialogue here and to ensure that the necessary funds are put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e377	It is quite right that it is not easy to have completely certain opinions about the need for permanent jobs in the sector, but I can assure the representative of Sortevik that we have a very close and ongoing dialogue with the sector about this. NIFU had an estimate of 2,000 more new research positions, but it was based on the policy at the time. The government has wanted to improve the research conditions. It is my strong impression that if researchers themselves are to highlight the problem of their research, there is a lack of coherent time and other research conditions that determine, and which is the biggest problem. We want to increase the number of scholarship holders and the number of support staff for researchers, and have then estimated that the result of this policy change will be approximately. 1 000 new posts. But the institutions themselves are responsible for the addition policy, and they can add more if the research conditions also improve and they meet that requirement. At the same time, the Communication and the Committee provide for much greater flexibility in the use of staff. I would nevertheless like to say that the budget is less cautious than the recruitment message, which was submitted long before the budget. There we only talked about temporary means of conversion, but the budget has secured 500 million. In the case of stable budgetary growth for educational purposes, and as I said, institutions themselves can then assess the addition. I have to conclude by saying that I have not received any signals that it is moving towards a bug landing for the quality reform. The reports I receive are associated with a lot of enthusiasm. It is clear that institutions are undergoing a very demanding transition, the transformation of times. We have said that you might be practical and at least mentally should reset the organisation to do something new. It's demanding, I'm not going to underestimate it, but I also think it's very enthusiastic to track out in the sector, and the dialogue is very close, as it has been in and on the whole process of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e384	I would also like to stress that I have also not received any signals that indicate that there will be a bulwark landing for the quality reform, on the contrary, I have also received strong signals that it is quite enthusiastic. It obviously depends on how we deal with it further, but right now it seems like it's a lot of enthusiasm. At least we must not draw a picture here from this speaker that this reform will not be implemented and that there is resistance around the institutions. I also agree with the Council of State that there is a great deal going on in Norwegian research. We've made it easy to do self-placing and self-paining in this country and tell each other how hopeless and how bad most things are. That's very good. We've got quite a number of centres for excellent research, and there were a lot of good qualities in the environment that didn't get in that way. All of this indicates that there is a lot of good in Norwegian research, and that image I think it is important that we sometimes draw up, so that we don't always use self-placing and self-tankering. But I have some questions for the Council of State. We are not going to add up to any particular increase in the number of permanent jobs. It is contained in the Communication, which should be more efficient and rationalised. The increase shall take place in scholarship and post-doctoral positions. It is also in the Committee's position and, furthermore, in the communication. Then you still add up to the doctoral period of three years. This means that those scholarship holders should not enter and undertake teaching tasks. We have adopted a quality reform that will require more education, closer follow-up of the students, and then my question will be: who will do this if we are not even going to be able to add up to a four-year doctoral programme where one of the years becomes a compulsory year of education? This is also consistent with the evaluation of the Evaluation Committee, which will be the best model. So my question to the Council of State is: shouldn't it already be a clear and clear answer now that we want this, this is the way to do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e395	I have to assess that. We have had an evaluation report at the hearing. We haven't even systematized the hearing opinions, we haven't consulted the sector, so we haven't taken a position on that. However, it is clear that there are potentially also some economic consequences that need to be assessed. Either there must be fewer scholarship holders within the same framework or it will result in relatively significant costs and therefore requires a thorough assessment. However, institutions can assess for themselves 3+1 years to meet the educational and guidance needs of quality reform. But this is not a question I have raised, it is a question I say we should consider in the light of the hearing opinions and the evaluation available. If that's allowed, I could imagine using the few seconds I have now, to say something about a point that several people have affected, and that I could think of saying something about, namely, the salary level of fellows. I think there might be reason to draw attention to the fact that this year's paycheck actually gave a boost to the scholarship holders by now being placed directly between salary steps 40 and 60 upon addition, and it is higher than the initial salary in alternative positions in the public sector. I would like to add that in the draft budget we have tabled and adopted, the Ministry has also taken on the basis of salary step 42 when allocating funds to new posts in 2003. So I see that what you've expressed concerns here is, in many ways, taken care of by reaching that level through this year's salary line and what's in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e402	Just a little follow-up to my first line. I believe in the will of the Council of State to increase the proportion of women in the university and higher education sectors, and especially in top positions. At least there should be no sleeping cushion that we are currently internationally well located, and I have not understood the Council of State this way either. My question in the previous line was related, among other things. informal networks may be linked to recruitment procedures and recruitment. It is stated in the notice that if this is the case, it is a willingness to use positive specific treatment. Then I'm just going to confirm, although there's a minority in the committee that points to it with the recruitment process, that the Council of State is open to go in and see if that's the case that the notification itself describes as deprioritising women in more informal contexts. Then I am concerned and will stress that one should not – and I did not see the Council of State as such – leave responsibility to the institutions in this area, but of course we should not deprive them of the responsibility to follow up. So that's not enough on purpose. I imagine that one here – as I said in my first line – says something about ‘this we will’, ‘this we shall’, and that one has a claim on the institutions for objectives. We had a discussion earlier, last year, about representation in corporate governance, and there I realized that there were some people who thought it should be left to business, while the government's conclusion was, I understood that one would actually go along with some demands. I also expect in this area that we can come up with something more comprehensive that also includes concrete expressions of the positive will that I perceive everyone has.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e411	When I said that we were well off with other countries, it was more that we were better off. That was more to illustrate how bad things are in other countries, because there's really a low proportion of women in top positions, in scientific positions. As far as comparison with business is concerned, in my opinion, it is not quite accurate. Business is private time and has its own set of democratic rules. There is a difference between the decision by the State on the possible conduct of business with positive special treatment and the decision by the State of its own institutions. It's something else. In this way, I personally think it is more legitimate that the state governs its own institutions. That is what we have done in the field of higher education, and we have gone to quite radical steps compared to other countries, which I was in for. In terms of positive treatment at different levels, it may be divisible into two. Personally, I think what is called moderate quota, namely that you prefer the underrepresented sex on other equal terms, almost a matter of course today if you are faced with managements and working sticks that are very homogeneously composed, and where you need more diversity. A positive treatment involving the prioritisation of the underrepresented sex, even though less skilled, is, of course, a much more drastic measure, which must be extremely careful and have very good reasons for doing so. That, too, has to be assessed on a case-by-case basis. I am, as I say, willing to go deeper into these issues in the field of university and higher education, and also willing to assess instruments. I also have a dialogue with the sector about how they themselves can implement measures on the staff side to recruit more women, but I am not prepared here and now to conclude with exactly what kind of measures it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e422	Continuity and the ability to choose research as a career path are important for recruiting – i.e. those who are encouraged to start a doctorate see that there is a career path within the system, and that there is an opportunity to move from scholarship to postdoctoral position and, if necessary, to a permanent position. The minority in the committee writes a good deal about this in relation to postdoctoral positions. Establishing several post-doctoral positions is an important matter, just to catch up with several of those who are completing their doctorate, and get them into a position. We are also concerned that the postdoctoral position should be of longer duration than today. The most common thing today is a two-year scholarship as a postdoctor, and then maybe one can get it extended. We are committed to seeing whether this should not be extended to four years as a general rule, and also closely linked to the professional environments of the institute, at the faculty, just to ensure that there will be an overall responsibility within the faculty/institution. My question to the Council of State will then be: is it not important to ensure a career and secure recruitment to extend the length of post-doctoral status to four years? Because it's just around the postdoctoral position the bend has been the largest, getting the opportunity for a position from one is finished with the doctorate, until one can get a firm position. So extending the length to four years, wouldn't it be an important matter for the Council of State – consider, go in, make recommendations – so that we get this continuity and this opportunity to plan a career?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e433	I have noticed the small discussion that has been here in the Chamber about these minority comments and the majority view of them, and I have then noticed with interest that there is no real disagreement about the substance there and the thoughts that you make here, but there may be a little other reason why you have divorced layers. I think that a part of what is written about the training of researchers, how to make it more attractive, how to make research a more attractive career path, how to integrate the courses of education and research, so to speak, at the institutions, is exciting – I think it is very exciting in those comments. In the case of postdocs, the annual target period is usually from two to four years, mainly related to research, but also here institutions are free to add postdocs for four years with one year of compulsory education. So that's possible. The new thing that we have to get used to is that we have given institutions greater freedom, that they have greater freedom, and that they are supposed to use and manage this freedom and take responsibility. It's a difficult balance, of course, both for us and for them, but I think that's the regime we all have to try to make friends with, and here they have a freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e441	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox That means that the representatives have brought the matter safely to port, and we can at least not talk about any abdominal landing here. [[Fotation, see page 1534]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e459	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1535]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e477	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1535]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e495	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1535]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e513	We now come to a whole series of proposals, even the proposal in case No. 10, which is linked up to the Innst. O. No 49 on the introduction of an index price-based system for the placing on the market of medicinal products. The party of progress was opposed to the introduction of this system, and I have taken the floor to clarify some of the voting order here, because the committee's position will differ from that of the majority in these matters. This means, among other things: that the proposal on file No. 5, which is about to come back with an evaluation of the index price system, including the blueprint system, the Progress Party will vote against, as a result of a later proposal that better captures what we think. There will be some of these cases here, which makes voting a little difficult, because if one is adopted, it will be difficult to address – I kept saying – the original and the position of the committee, because there is already a proposal adopted in the Grand Chamber. So I don't know if you want to look at what's going on in the voting order here, or how to implement this voting, but the Progress Party will at least vote against proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox I don't know if I can get permission to give an explanation of vote on the other proposals as well, because here we have the same general position. We will vote against the proposal in case No. 5, as a result of our own proposal, which is the proposal in substance. 10th@item: inlistbox We will also vote against the proposal in case No. 6, because we have another proposal, the proposal in case No. 7, which we will vote in favour, and we will vote against the proposal in case No. 8 and for the proposal in case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e518	Then we have received a explanation of vote from the Progress Party. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1535]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e538	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1535]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e556	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1535]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e574	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1536]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e592	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1536]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e610	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1536]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e631	The interpellation is based on an article appearing in the Evening Post on 1 November 2002. Here are figures presented by Professor Dag Bratlid at NTNU in Trondheim. He has made calculations that cause some of the image of a poor health care system to be demolished. Bratlid says to Aftenposten on 1 November 2002: ‘Increasing inefficiency, constant or even declining access to new patients and re-use of old patients is a better diagnosis of the current hospital system.’ He also says, ‘You can turn the health debate around and say that medically speaking, it may be more appropriate to lower the level of activity. Politicians are committed to continuing a high level of activity. If it means checking patients even more times than now, it is asked whether this is a reasonable use of health resources.’ Bratlid’s reports have left the national hospital figures behind, looking in particular at each department at St. Olav’s Hospital in Trondheim. The figures were presented in Economic Forum No. 8 2002, and they have also been presented in two articles in the journal of the Norwegian Medical Association. The number of hospital contacts per person is described here. patients increased from 2 in 1999 to 2.5 in 2001. The increased capacity of the hospital was therefore used to treat the same patients several times. In summary, hospitals are characterised by an inefficiencies in which more and more health workers are treating fewer and fewer patients at an increasing cost. The report I have described states that the lack of cooperation between the hospitals and the doctors outside the hospitals, at the medical offices where people live, is a major reason for the large increase in controls at the hospitals. It is also suggested that the number of checks in relation to the number of initial studies is not something that can be entrusted to individual health professionals, but that, instead, general guidelines should be established as to whether the checks should be carried out in hospitals or in doctors where people live. Furthermore, it is emphasised that the system for financing hospitals has an important part of the blame for the situation described. It is suggested that the funds allocated to hospitals should be more closely linked to the number of patients actually treated and not to the number of times each individual is treated. The figures presented in the survey show that while at St. Olav’s Hospital, that is to say the regional hospital in Trondheim, 373 doctors were employed in 1995, the number increased to 509 in 2001, which means an increase of 36.7 pst. Similarly, in the same period, the number of pleasures increased from 1,596 to 2,067, which is an increase of buttons 30 pst. In the same period, the number of newly treated patients fell from 8 700 in 1996 to 3 900 in 2001, i.e. a total of 55.5 pst. Outpatients showed no dramatic change, with 75,500 newly treated patients in 1996 and 74,400 in 2001. But the fact that there was no dramatic change in those numbers while there has been a dramatic change in the number of employees is in itself cause for concern. So there was no increase here either, despite significant increases in resource availability. Other research environments have also shown that resource use, particularly towards the hospital sector, is not optimal. Professor Kjell Haug of the Department of Social Medicine, Institute of Societal Medicine at the University of Bergen, is the editor of a book published at a National Conference on Health Economics in May 2001 in Bergen. In an interview with Aftenposten on 7 May 2001, Haug stated that if more money is allocated to the treatment system now, it will probably benefit already priority areas. Haug points out in the interview that long waiting lists, health cows and crowded corridors are about priorities and organisation. More money, says Haug, is not the solution. He also expresses the fact that general practitioners are in a key position in the healthcare system. According to Haug, increased availability of general practitioners and improved continuity in the medical patient relationship will lead to more problems being solved by the primary doctor. This, in turn, will solve the need for specialist treatment. What I want to add here is that we have a fixed medical system that was put in place about the time Haug spoke this out, and which even better today enables us to have patients treated at the primary level, because the coverage rate has increased in the case of primary health care. We all know that the different healthcare companies are struggling with the strained economy. So what I've said here may appear paradoxical, since it's an argument for using the funds differently and not necessarily in the form of increased appropriations for hospitals. Of course, I am aware that there will be short-term problems that hospitals will have to solve, which are also about money. But in a more long-term perspective, I believe that what I've drawn out here is important to bring with it, and it's important to set up the healthcare system in such a way that you get out of the mess you've ended up in in many ways, which is made visible through the two reports I've mentioned. I feel that a central issue relating to the hospital economy will be: how can economic instruments be created for better resource use than today, so that the groups that should be given priority will also be? At the heart of that discussion will be the future financing mechanism for hospitals. As you know, the government has set up a selection to look at the financing of hospitals. The selection is led by Professor Terje Hagen. I expect that the Minister of Health in his reply will refer to the work of the sample. However, in view of the high cost of hospitals, it is necessary that both population and government have a dynamic relationship with developments in the hospital sector, since the ring-fence of poor financial management will be high. Another key question is: to what extent can the development of healthcare services be disconnected from political governance without the policy being determined by either corruption or government? In the State budget, we have seen a number of possible structural changes to hospitals in the direction of health businesses and descriptions of them. It is obvious that some of the changes are in line with both what the Storing has decided and what the Government has proposed. But we also see trends where, at least as a wholesaler, there is an unpleasant sense of being a spectator of what is happening, more than a premiscuous supplier. We see that there should be possible and quite significant changes to the emergency services. We had a discussion in the Storting about changes in neonatal care, where initially a development that could go on those changes, so far without the Storting being drawn to a general level. Now, the Storting will be, because the government is sending out a message about the newborn care and we get a discussion in connection with it. We've seen a change in the very content of the hospital functions. These may include emergency preparedness, the specialist functions to be covered by each hospital and at all places of decentralised or centralised specialist services. What we also see is a very big difference in the offers related to the specialist coverage, and it can be demonstrated that in some regions there may be a use of specialists in the multiple of the other regions. In any case, the differences between individual municipalities can be very large and very large depending on the extent to which patients live from hospitals. This is, of course, a development that has not taken place through political governance, but in many ways through a much more market-adapted healthcare system where users are given access depending on the proximity of services and how easily they are available. Signals about changes in the decentralised supply such as hospitalisation sites, ambulances for specialists or dialysis and cellular toxicity treatment have also come as a consequence of poor economy, where the measures could in many ways have been suitable for reducing expenditure growth, because they occur close to patients. The cost of travel is reduced, and in this way overall the social economy can be better exploited. These are things that can happen so far without the Storting having thought it would happen, but because health companies see themselves having to or earning it. The most dramatic, however, is in my and SV's view the constant messages we get within the psychiatry. Last night I received a message from Eastfold about a reduction in the offer at some of the district psychiatric centers with sanctuaries. It's, as far as I know, five district psychiatric centers in Eastfold, and it was about not being open on weekends, and that patients might be moved to other institutions, which could be quite dramatic for the patient group we're talking about. This is happening in parallel with an escalating plan for the psychiatry. I would like to conclude by saying that there are two key answers to the questions I have raised. One is the need to look at a new funding system with a different device, where it needs to be stimulated to the right use of resources at the right level. Some form of framework funding must be at the bottom of requirements for performance in terms of processing capacity. The second is that it is necessary to have a national overall health plan which provides guidance for health businesses and imposes obligations in respect of follow-up, both for health businesses, and in turn also for government and enlargement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e696	Let me first commend the representative Ballo for the initiative he has taken through this interpellation, which I feel has the intention that the Stortinget should be more involved in discussing the premises for health policy, which I, as the Council of State, feel is an important matter for me too. There's a lot happening in these days in the organisation of our hospitals. It is in line with the expectations expressed in this room for the reform. But the changes don't happen in a political vacuum. It is a prerequisite and a requirement for regional and local health establishments to carry out their activities in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the Stortinget. I believe that practices to date provide good points of view for this basic assumption to be fulfilled. I interpret the representative of Ballo to that he is concerned that the health service with the hospital reform is subject to weak political governance and control. I can assure Agent Ballo that that is not the case. The political responsibility is now clearly assigned to me as the responsible State Council. It's a responsibility I take very seriously, including the constitutional responsibility of the business model. That means that the central, overall decisions are subject to the treatment of the owner. Within this framework, it is essential to succeed in providing the local environment with the necessary space to perform its tasks. Small governance is not overarching political governance and should not be the pattern at this stage of health care development. Regional health enterprises are responsible for ensuring the necessary specialist health services for the population in the future. In order to ensure this in the longer term, enterprises need to meet their future needs, i.e.: meet the epidemiological, demographic and medical technological developments. It presupposes that regional health enterprises draw up strategic plans for the overall design of the service provision, operational conversions and structural measures in the region. In order to provide the Storting with the best possible basis for discussing the development of the specialist health service, I have set up a cooperation with regional health companies to make an annual report to the Ministry by regional health companies. I am aiming for this plan material to be included in the St.prp. No 1st@item: During the current month, the Ministry of Health will assess whether formalised documents from regional health establishments should be issued as part of this work, including what should be included in the status reporting. To me, this new planning and notification system is an important instrument for a comprehensive national and political governance of the specialist healthcare service and a long way from meeting the mandate of the representative of Ballo. I share the opinion of the representative of Ballo that the resources should be used in the best possible way. Thus, it is an objective that patient treatment should take place at the right level, with the proper use of available resources and competences. The availability and proximity of patients should be emphasised. This means that hospital treatment should be limited to cases where there is a need for hospital competence and infrastructure. Patients who can be treated at a second level, i.e. in the primary health service or in the specialist outside the hospital, care shall be taken outside the hospital. The so-called LEON principle is old and used, but should perhaps be followed up even more. Good use of resources and follow-up to developments and changes in healthcare often require conversion. There may be demanding processes, especially at the local level. It is important that local views and assessments are expressed and listened to, but special interests should not prevent transformation that provides good and holistic solutions for the benefit of society and users. Overall development has resulted in treatment and interventions traditionally linked to hospitals, to a greater extent than to date outside hospitals, either in the primary health service or at an intermediate level such as: in hospital, up-to-date nursing homes or so-called semi-interline services. We now have several measures under test, not least on the basis of initiatives taken by the representative, Mr Ballo, both as a representative for big business and in other contexts. I particularly mention dialysis and cancer treatment with cell poisons, because these two measures show how modern technology enables the specialised treatment to be decentralised with full support and monitoring from the leading specialists in a university hospital, many miles away. Such an approach is supported by the decision taken by the Stortinget just before Christmas, where the Government was asked to prepare for the transfer of the funding of sick transport from the Riksstrøgdeverket to regional health businesses. We will come back to this when we follow up the position of the Finance Committee, the Hagen Committee, to Stortinget. We must recognise that so far there have been no adapted arrangements in relation to the organisation and funding of so-called grey-zone patients, i.e. patients who need treatment at a level between hospital and primary health services. The current financing mechanism and the division of financial responsibilities may, in some cases, prevent rational processing solutions. As you know, we are now carrying out several attempts to gain experience, including as a contribution to the future funding mechanism. It is necessary, in particular because medical options change rapidly, and what was only possible yesterday in a hospital is also available outside hospitals, while introducing new forms of treatment. Technically, it is possible to cut the time that patients have to stay in the hospital, but patients also need time to recover, both after emergency incidents and planned interventions. It has not been given that this should happen exclusively in hospitals, but we need to ensure good offers also for such situations. For the time being, several such actions are being financed as interim solutions, until the issue of organisation and financing of operations is permanently clarified. I see the development of a district medical centre as an interesting perspective to ensure a specialist health service at the lowest effective level. The Finance Committee, the Hagen Committee, gave its position just before Christmas. The setting also addresses this question. The work of the committee will provide an important basis for the Ministry's proposal for a future financing scheme for the specialist health service. I fully agree with the premises outlined by the representative Ballo for the future design of the scheme. Then the representative of Ballo refers to an article in the Evening Post on 1 November last year based on a study at St. Olav's Hospital describing a development of the use of resources in hospitals that may indicate that costs have increased more than treatment capacity and that hospitals are engaged in ‘re-use’ of patients to increase their income. I have registered this claim and will make some comments. It is important to follow up and to ask whether the various health professionals can confirm that established procedures are good and cost-effective and that there is a development in line with the knowledge acquired. This has been followed up in my governance message to regional health businesses for 2003. The article claims that there have not been any more new patients, but that the number of hospital contacts and the number of checks per person. patients have increased. It is suggested that many of these contacts and controls are unnecessary and that hospitals ‘recirculate’ patients, and that there may be economic incentives to do so, including: the financing system. The same material was previously presented in the journal of the Norwegian Medical Association in February 2002. The conclusions were somewhat more reserved, and it was clarified that care should be taken to generalise the development of one hospital to the rest of the country. Sintef Unimed is now working on an independent re-analysis of the data on which those articles are based, and Sintef Unimed questions whether there is a basis for conclusions on the re-use of patients. It is important that the professional analyses are carried out with sufficient thoroughness, but it is equally important that there is sufficient urgency to identify measures to improve the use of resources in healthcare. There are many possible reasons why individual patients have multiple contacts with a hospital. This may include, inter alia: due to multiple preparatory contacts prior to insertion, altered organisation of treatment with multiple and shorter stays over one longer continuous stay, as part of the efficiency of operations and reduction of overcoatings and corridors. Early discharge may be defended if followed by more frequent outpatient checks. At the same time, the number of older people, in particular the group over 80, has increased. This group has a major need and consumption of hospital services. There may also be a lack of provision of primary health services or insufficient cooperation between first- and second-line services as a reason for many to be controlled in hospitals. However, with the development of the fixed medical system, I believe that it should be more limited. At the same time, we know that there are great differences between hospitals. It depends on several things, for example: undue number of outpatient controls, unnecessary follow-up checks, lack of transfer of patients to prescribers, etc. However, better monitoring is needed before safe conclusions are drawn. The Ministry of Health will take the initiative to monitor, on the basis of the differences, the extent to which ‘real’ patients are being treated in hospitals and the patients that can be followed up, in whole or in part, at a different level than in hospitals. The increase in the activity of the somatic hospitals we have seen in recent years has been weaker than the significant increase in hospital budgets. This development has now stopped and is about to turn around. There have also been large differences in cost levels between hospitals. This indicates that there is a significant potential for further efficiencies in the specialist healthcare service. It is one of the challenges of hospital reform. It is the government's clear ambition to increase the efficiency of specialist health services, so that you get healthier for each krona, while at the same time improving the quality of services. For this reason, we have put in place a prerequisite for significant pressure for efficiency improvement in 2003, a prerequisite to which the Storting agreed in the current year's budget. This means looking at both the structure and the implementation of the operating arrangements from different sides. This may lead to changes in patient provision. But I attach great importance to following up what has been said in the budget, that the overall patient offer should be a continuation of the high level we have in 2002. Regional health enterprises have been given greater autonomy in the exercise of overall management and governance by law on health enterprises and by the statutes. This applies both to the ownership function and to the responsibility within its own region. Although health care companies have been given a great deal of operational autonomy, I would like to refer to what I have said in this room earlier. Health enterprises are not exempted from health policy priorities. They are not exempted from the decisions taken by the Stortinget and, of course, from the budgetary requirements adopted by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e741	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for his answer. I actually don't see it as a matter of fact that the Minister of Health is a counterparty here in relation to the ideas that I have outlined, but I think we are facing a development where there are important choices that must be made in the years that come, in terms of what kind of health care we want in Norway. And it's not a matter of course what kind of choice the different parties will make. One can choose to bet that the weight of healthcare is to be done through an increasingly specialised healthcare system, where we are to have very top-heavy professional environments, and where the costs will necessarily be very high as a consequence. In some areas, it is obvious that Norway will be both in the forefront and in the heavy professional environments. In some areas, the Storting has also decided that we should have it. For example, we've said something about stem cell research, and we're going to have good, heavy disciplines there, just like a majority election has done in relation to the Biotechnology Act. But – and that’s an important but – if we’re not concerned with the general disease spectrum in the population, how we get the best out of helping them, it means that a clean and isolated focus on very specialised disciplines makes us help less, because most disorders are, after all, I don’t want to use the word banal disorders, but it’s relatively simple suffering that can be remedied by relatively simple means. This means that you can do much to help the individual who lives with his or her relatives, and you can do it with a reasonable use of resources. That is why it has always been important for us — it has been important for me, and it has been important for SV — to strengthen the basis for healthcare, because it makes it much easier, even when we recognise that services should be further developed on that basis, to reach where it is to be more specialised. But it's like building a house – if you start with the roof and the walls and are not occupied with the ground wall, it goes wrong. What I'm registering, and which I'm happy to register, is that many of those thoughts also have the Minister of Health. I also register it with regard to the funding system in the hospitals. I think we should have what we've been talking about, which is an overall national health plan in some form. You can give it the concept of different content, or you can have different approaches to it, but I see the outlines that we're starting to put it in place when the Storting is presented to health companies' thoughts. The government will present it, as far as I understand, annually in connection with the state budget, and then part of it also begins to come into place. However, I would like to ask whether it should in some way be enshrined in the Health Enterprises Act itself. But we'll have an opportunity to come back to that. I would otherwise like to follow the rest of the debate here today with excitement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e754	I agree with Mr Ballo that we are faced with important health policy choices, even though we also have some very important road choices that we now need to take the consequences of, follow up and give a real chance to work. I am, like the representative Ballo, concerned that there are forces in medical technology that allow treatments that previously had to be done in hospitals and by specialists to be done at a lower level. A popular example is the treatment of diabetes, which to some extent is decentralized to the individual patient. What's important is that we have a health service that also captures the decentralizing features of the subjects and subjects, and that opens up these possibilities. There is no objective of transporting as many patients as possible to as few central treatment institutions as possible. In fact, it is an objective to provide quality good treatment as close as possible to individual living, a treatment that is professionally sound and economically sound. I want it to be an important premise when we tackle the design of the funding system in the future. I have noted the Social and Health Directorate's report from last autumn on the development of a district medical centre as an important and exciting perspective that we will continue to work with. In conclusion, let me just touch on the issue of political governance. I think we need to live up to the notion that controlling the details of the operation and controlling the details in the way hospitals and services are conducted is good political governance. Good political governance is to take the overall road choices, and it is to follow up and make sure that it actually happens in practice as one has determined. It's also meeting the challenge that comes from the subjects. Too much of the health care management before the health reform and the hospital reform was introduced is marked by the fact that it is the subjects that have managed, and that it is the specialists that have happened to have in a hospital, which has been largely decisive for the activity pattern that the hospital has received. It is also not a desirable development, and it is also a challenge in relation to overall governance and priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e763	The interpellation is based on an article in the Evening Post where, among other things, it was claimed that the costs in our hospital have increased more than the treatment capacity. The interpellence also addresses the question of whether health businesses are actually implementing a health policy across what the Storting has adopted. Both of these issues are very central to the debate on health policy at all times. In a SINTEF report on medical interventions and activities presented, among others: in the Address Paper of 30 April 2001, it was found that the number of medical staff in somatic hospitals had increased by over 40 pst. from 1992 to 2000. At the same time, 10 pst had been treated. fewer patients, i.e. significantly fewer patients per year. play. One could talk about a fall in productivity. Of course, the causes are complex, including: increased specialisation, clearer working time agreements, more time for professional immersion, etc. There is therefore no basis for drawing such studies too far. We have implemented and launched a health reform that was just based on the fact that the health funds we grant should focus as much as possible on the treatment of patients, i.e. the most effective use of appropriations for health purposes. And the reform helped improve the quality of specialist healthcare and decision-making as close as possible to employees and patients. Statistics for treated patients show that much of the activity is due to patients admitted to control. It may be possible to ask whether all these checks are strictly medically justified. Otherwise, I would like to stress that health professionals should follow closely the lead of the Storting, whether in the field of psychiatry, food supply or treatment, which should be carried out in close interaction with primary health services, etc. It is not that any health company can sabotage the will of the Storting or the Government. It is therefore necessary that the Minister of Health at all times follow closely the dispositions of health businesses and intervene whose prerequisites are broken. I am very pleased with the assurances given by the Council of State and with the practices that I have so far seen in this area. Our new system for the organisation of hospitals and the other specialist health services gives great powers to health companies, but within the framework of the Stortinge constantly withdraws. I'm going to end up talking about the lines that the Council of State put in its contribution drew up in relation to financing decentralised health services, which the interpellant also had in mind in its contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e778	I expect this is a debate that the President appreciates to follow. There's a very interesting debate this interpellation is drawing up. We now have one year of experience with state ownership of hospitals. With the experience we have had during this year, I am very pleased with the answer given by the Minister of Health, among others. with regard to the further development and improvement of reporting back to the Storting. The companies have a great responsibility, and they must also have great freedom. If not, the management system will not come up. Of course, health businesses are not exempt from health policy priorities and not least from the annual budgetary guidelines. The transparency that businesses seek also means that models and proposals are aired with the outside world, without necessarily becoming final decisions. This is positive. But we also need to see the question in the light of the management system that we have adopted just a little over a year ago. Before that, the county councils were hospital owners. This meant that 19 independent health policy guidelines were developed at county level, while coordination was at regional level, and the government gave its leadership. Now, political responsibility is located in one place – at the Council of State. I believe that this means that over time, citizens will receive a more equivalent health provision and will be significantly more assured that health policy priorities are in place. But, in my view, the representative Ballo's question opens up two new basic issues: where does the boundary between what businesses should be able to decide, and when should the Government and the Government be involved? And what is the scope of enterprise if the Storting adopts objectives and priorities that do not rise financially, or even worse: goes beyond other decisions taken by the same bodies? Those questions we have to answer ourselves. To the first question, where the decision-making authority of the undertakings is at its limit, it is most close to referring to the leaders on the basis of which the law is based. I would like to refer to the comments made by the majority on Section 16 of the Health Business Act. Here it says that the majority ‘have taken note of the fact that the State exercises its ownership control at the business meeting. This means that regional undertakings work under the authority of their owners in the current operation and thus have a high level of responsibility and significant authority.’» When looking further at the criteria for the issues to be dealt with by the business meeting, the same majority presents the example of hospital closure. It implies that the Government has initially placed the list high on which matters are to be brought before the Enterprise Meeting. This brings us directly to question No. 2: What happens when the Biggest Guide doesn't go up financially, or is it cracking? In my opinion, the answer is that this is a development that we are responsible for not happening. We have chosen to organise the companies in the way we have done, just to avoid hospitals being run through the Stortinges Question Time. Therefore, this is a good opportunity to ask ourselves the question: Have we managed to keep to this goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e800	It is both positive and right that the members of the Social Committee closely monitor the implementation of the hospital reform and ensure that national health policy priorities are followed up by corporate governance. However, both I and my party are particularly concerned about the economic situation in which businesses have come into, as we have recorded a significant operating deficit for 2002, a deficit that will only accelerate in 2003, with the consequences that it may have for patient treatment in the current year of operation. In this context, I refer you to the proposal made by the Progress Party in December in Stortinget, where the party proposed an additional budget of EUR 2 billion in 2002 to cover the operating deficit of health businesses in 2002. Unfortunately, this proposal did not receive a majority. Nor did the party represented by the interpellant support this proposal. I do not share the interpellant’s claim that hospitals are engaged in ‘re-use’ of patients to increase their income. I am also sceptical about the article in the Evening Post of 1 November 2002 that criticises the use of the resources of hospitals in relation to the follow-up of formerly admitted patients. It is true that to some extent hospitals follow up complicated cases after very short hospitalisations in order to provide patients with safety and good professional follow-up, which cannot always be done by primary health services. On the other hand, I agree with the inter-pellant that enterprises should use the total treatment capacity, that private specialists should be used much more, and that cell poisoning and dialysis treatment outside hospitals should be used more widely. Here I believe that the Minister of Health, as a general meeting of the Boards of Directors, must be able to influence in the right direction. A problem that health businesses have and will only strengthen in the future is the difficulty of having pre-treated patients outsourced at the hospital level for proper continued treatment and care in the primary municipalities. We still have a significant shortage of hospitals and rehabilitation facilities in the municipalities, and this is an area that needs to be given greater attention by the social committee in the time to come. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it should now be seriously assessed whether the primary health service should also become a State responsibility. I think it would provide a larger whole in the treatment chain and a more effective use of the total capacity on both the treatment side and the rehabilitation side. Finally, I would like to point out that hospitals are now operating according to a business model, where corporate governance thus has a great deal of freedom to organise and manage operations, with full responsibility for facilitating a fair distribution of health services to benefit all Norwegian citizens. It is then important that we do not receive a detailed management from Stortinget, as we did with county operational responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e815	The Christian People's Party will give tribute to the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo, who in his interpellation asks questions as to whether the increased appropriations for our hospitals have led to a corresponding increase in treatment capacity for the benefit of patients. He also refers to an article in the Evening Post on 1 November 2002 claiming that hospitals are calling for more hospital checks than is strictly necessary. This ‘re-use’ of patients provides increased revenues, while the number of treatment for new patients has declined. I can't vouch for this claim. But for the Christian People's Party, it is an important objective that patients are treated at the right level, so that they take advantage of competence and resources in an efficient and good way. I believe that many patients feel safe to have a back check on the hospital they have been hospitalized before. At the same time, most people have a fixture that can follow up properly. All healthcare companies are developing good IT systems that, in networks with primary health services, can ensure that epicrisis and patient information are rapidly derived from healthcare businesses. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a clear need for the permanent doctors or specialists outside the hospital to have a good follow-up and follow-up of patients, so that hospitals can treat new patients and thereby reduce waiting lists. Like SV, the Christian People's Party has been concerned that it is the specialist healthcare service that needs high knowledge of technology and treatment methods. At the same time, we see a new development, where higher education capacities and competences allow more and more people to be treated at a lower level. More and more people are being treated outside the hospital, what we call the one-way service. The Christian People's Party has great faith in a rustling up nursing homes and creating hospitals. We support the opportunities offered by telemedicine and the decentralisation of healthcare. These include: the possibility to provide dialysis and non-hospital carcinogenicity therapy. It is important that we find good financial instruments that continue to stimulate this. The interpellant is concerned whether health businesses are pursuing health policies across national guides and decisions. It is reassuring that the Minister of Health assures us that the health reform is under political control. If we are to succeed further, it is important that the Storting does not control the companies in detail by considering individual cases and individual enterprises in each and every Question Time, but instead gives a steering signal in relation to the annual messages. It seems logical that these should be included in the annual budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e834	This is a big and important topic that we could probably have spent several hours discussing. I'm not going to pass all the claims in the evening post and in other investigations that are used as a starting point here, but I think it's interesting to look at some of the developments that are now at our hospitals. What's interesting is that in this debate it's very focused on this to reduce costs, society's costs, while reducing risks and unnecessary burden and suffering for the patient, is something that comes in the second row, I think. It's important that this is seen in context. Avoiding unnecessary burden and suffering for the patient is also, in my view, a good social economy. Among other things, I'm concerned about what's now happening in the wake of healthcare companies' financial arrangements, with the tight economy they have, that the emergency medical preparedness, the proximity of patients to specialist health care and the response time and quality of ambulance services are getting worse. We have examples that municipalities have had to be on spice layers to keep ambulances in service, and it is a health service in today's Norway unworthy. It is also said that there are several hospital treatments for the same patient, almost having a ‘re-use’ of the patient. I think it's hard to use that argument. But I think there's an explanation for this, which nobody's been up to now. It's that the rapid outsourcing of patients that's now happening leads to even more swing door spaces and more reintroductions. That is why I have also warned in the past about this rapid system of outsourcing, which is going to be even faster and more effective. I think it's important that the patient is finished before he's printed. Where the disease picture is complicated, it should at least be such that what the patient is being treated for is under control before printing. There is also another great cross of thought about what is now happening, with printing and treatment at a lower level. For this lower level, it is largely not possible to accept these patients properly today. Then the municipalities must be able to do so. It is also necessary to enable the two-way service to treat these patients. Capacity-related resources are very low at one and the other services level. With regard to the municipalities, with the economy they have today, I find it irresponsible to say that they should take patients almost from post-operative treatment and continue treatment. In that case, resources must be made available, primarily financially. At the same time, however, a better economy must be able to build up professionally sound health services both in the field of medical care and in the field of nursing. The LEON principle is, I am very much in favour of, but the LEON principle applies primarily to care. Here we also introduce treatment at the lowest possible level, and then the treatment must have qualities in itself that make this acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e850	You are facing a choice when you are going into this kind of debate, which can contain extremely many subjects. We could, for example, have focused on the issue of psychiatry. I think that it might have become a much more critical debate, angled against whether we succeed in what we've set ourselves up. One of the most important things about this interpellation is to discuss: what kind of direction do we want on the future health care system, so that – from the patient’s point of view – the best possible care is taken? Here I fully agree with Glütvold that we must not forget that this is about the sum of individuals. It's about the patients, the individuals, who make contact, and their experience of being cared for. It may well be that in my main post I did not say clearly enough that this is what this is really about. Because if we're going to accept to spend $55 billion on the specialist health service, we have to assume that these resources are used in a way that gives the most to those involved, namely the patients. I have to say that there is one thing that surprises me, for example. With regard to the approach of the committee leader – the Progress Party – here, it is that it almost doesn’t matter how this money is spent, that you don’t demand: do we have results that are a consequence of what we’ve put in? Because if we are not concerned about it, we are not concerned about what the Progress Party would like to have called the taxpayers' money: targeting the use of the funds that patients themselves are using. The overall use of resources by the healthcare system is so great that it not only affects the provision of healthcare, it also affects offers related to school services, to kindergartens and to transportation. We were a little bit into the same kind of discussion when it came to the state budget. When you refer to other budget lines, you can see that they represent the fraction of what we have, linked, for example. to the sickness fund chapter only. That is why this discussion becomes important: how can we ensure that the individual’s assistance is sound, that the best possible resources are targeted, and that help is usually provided close to where he lives? I record that Glow violence perceives that the LEON principle has to be concerned with care in particular. I disagree. Treatment with relatively complex medicines can, surprisingly, be given – and I think the Minister of Health was in a good way – even where you live, provided that you use the specialist health service both as an adviser and in between as a caregiver who is there as well. It is surprising, however, to what extent cell poison treatment can be given in Norwegian municipalities under the control of Norwegian general practitioners – of course, with over-control by specialists. The fact that you can do the same with dialysis, where you have nurses who have been trained to do this, makes it clear how you can use resources in a much better way. When patients who may otherwise have traveled 300-400 km to a hospital three times a week, may experience being at home with their own family, going for treatment for a couple of hours and then going home again – perhaps even working in combination with this – we have really succeeded in what we are looking for, namely, using resources properly and at the same time helping the individual in a better way than we are doing today. That's my main concern in terms of this interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e865	I think this debate has been very useful and important. As part of previous health policy debates, it has not been influenced by attempts to re-examine the reform that in many ways is the main premise of health policy in the case of specialised services. On the contrary, it has been the basic idea that this reform should work in the best possible way. That's what's now the starting point. I am very pleased that it is becoming a common political substance, regardless of the starting point in the approach to reform as such. I am also very pleased that the debate has consistently focused on how the overall policy governance of healthcare can best take place, and that – at least as far as it has been commented on – there is a consensus that I will continue to develop this planning and reporting system linked to St.prp. No 1, so that we provide the Storting with a broader basis to be involved in health policy priorities and choices. I am, as I said in my first post, well started with it. Furthermore, regional health establishments have a general obligation to notify the ministry if it differs significantly over the year from the target picture set out in the management document. The governance document is clearly anchored in Stortinget's treatment of St.prp. No 1st@item: I'm also glad that from several teams there is a warning against a political governance that goes on the level of detail in relation to operational assumptions, because I think it gives an illusion of governance, and that it really does not imply what you're looking for. It will be undermining the reform that the Storting itself has adopted. I have also noticed the signals that have emerged in the debate. I am taking them into account in the implementation of Stortingen's hospital facilities in 2003, and not least in preparing the new financing system for the specialist health service, which we are now working on in the wake of the Hagen Committee's suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e878	That being the case, it is no. 11 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e889	The size is ready to go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e896	In the course of the debate, Mr Rikvam, the representative, has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The number of doctoral degrees awarded at universities and higher education institutions shall be increased to 400 new scholarship holders per year for the period 2003 to 2007.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e925	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Karita Bekkemelm Orheim, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 16 December 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals on the prohibition of advertising in textbooks and teaching materials in primary and secondary education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e943	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Ola D. Glötvold, on behalf of the Centre Party, submitted by the meeting of 16 December 2002 of the Odelstinget: ‘The Government is asking the Government to cover expenditure on home and medical services on a white prescription in accordance with detailed rules to include this in the Roch 2 scheme. The same applies to medical devices and consumables, orthopaedic aids and chiropractic. This must be provided as soon as possible and at the latest within the State budget in the autumn of 2003.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e961	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 16 December 2002: ‘The decision asks the Government, in cooperation with the user organisations and, at the latest, in the context of the 2004 State Budget, to raise a case on which and how municipal ownership can be included in the Roch 2 scheme.’ The President expects the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e981	There is a vote on the proposal by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 16 December 2002: ‘The size asks the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2004 to come back with an evaluation of the index price system, including the blueprint scheme.’ The President assumes that the Labour Party and the Advance Party wish to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e989	President! The centre party wishes to vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e996	The centre party also wants to vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e1011	There is a vote on the proposal by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 16 December 2002: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that the pharmacies receive full compensation from the social security system when implementing the index price system, in cases where the doctor reserves the exchange, but that this question is re-assessed in the evaluation of the index price system.’ The President here also expects the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e1031	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 16 December 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the public interest continues to cover the medical costs in cases where the doctor considers it unwarrantable for the patient to be supplied with a medicinal product other than that prescribed.’ The President assumes that the Right, Socialist Left, Christian People's Party and Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e1051	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 16 December 2002: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate the further development of a model whereby the applicant prints active substances on the prescription and not as at present a particular medicinal product.’ [[in practice doctor]] The President expects the Progress Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e1071	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 16 December 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the prohibition of any other than simultaneous rebates applies only to the placing on the market of medicinal products included in the calculation of the index price.’ The President assumes that the Right, Socialist Left, Christian People's Party and Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e1088	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e1095	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e1109	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 16 December 2002: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortingen with a review of the entire medicinal product area in the context of the evaluation of the index price scheme.’ Here too, the President expects the Right, the Socialist Left, the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e1125	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-09.ana.ud1137e1136	There is no record.
