ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e55	: Two permit applications are available: on the sick leave of the representative Karin S. Woldseth from 8 May onwards and until further notice from the Central Party Group on the leave of the representative Rune J. Skylaaaen Thursday 8 May to participate in the official visit of the Storting to Poland On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates of the county of Hordaland are convened to meet during the leave period: Jan Koløy and Mali Grete Neergaard Aksnes2. Mali Grete Neergaard Aksnes is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Rune J. Skylaaen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e85	Jan Koløy and Mali Grete Neergaard Aksnes are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e101	: At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose to give rise to five lines of reply following the intervention of members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e106	Oscar's fortress is 150 these days. Oscarsborg has been the training center for officers to the Kystartillery for a number of years, having played a significant military and historical role in these 150 years. The most dramatic story, which hopefully most people know, is that from April 9, 1940, when shots were fired from Oscarsborg and lowered Blücher, which meant that the German occupation of Norway was delayed, and the king, magnificence and government got time to get safe. Through its 150 years of existence, the fortress has played a major role in the defence of Norway. In 2002, the Falcon School was closed and moved to Horten. At the same time, the flag was split four, and the defense moved from the area. Today there is only one museum there, a unique one, but otherwise the area is largely open to the public, with all that it can bring with it. Some predicted this and wrote a document no. Eight proposals, which triggered Innst. S. No 314 for 2000–2001 and adopted in June 2001 in the United Kingdom. It contained a proposal to set up a foundation for the preservation of fortresses and other military-historical buildings, but the primary idea was Oscarsborg, and that we could have something clear on the day the defense left the area. Unfortunately, the Oscarsborg fortress has become a chapter in a major foreproject called the State Cultural Historical Properties. The work is managed and managed by the Ministry of Labour and Administration. After the defense left Oscarsborg, nothing really happened. The undersigned and others have written a number of letters to the Council of State on the matter and received an answer, but this has not triggered anything in particular. It is therefore fully understandable that a new Document No was drawn up. Eight proposals, which are then the background for Innst. S. No 196 for 2002-2003, which we are about to deal with today. Oscarsburg's fortress is a national monument and has a special place in the hearts of many northern men. The place is unique in many ways and has to be taken care of, and it is urgent. That is why, with great satisfaction on this day, 8 May, the day of release, I note that an overall committee shares the same opinion on this, and that we can therefore today promote a common position and a common recommendation. Oscarsborg's fastening is, as I said, a very special monument, which must be immediately taken care of. The final decision on the future of Oscarsborg must be reached. It assumes that the activities added to Oscarsborg are in line with the historical tradition and culture represented by the bourgeoisie. The Committee asks the Ministry to consider a combination of limited military presence and other activities, including possible private financing of military presence. Finally, I would just like to recommend the Committee's proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e125	Like the rapporteur, Mr Width, I am also very pleased that an overall committee is behind this setting. Only a few comments from the Working Party: The main task of the defence is to defend Norway and Norwegian interests. But the defense is also very much more than that. It's historical culture and tradition, to mention something. In this regard, I believe that there is no stronger symbol than the Oscarsborg fastening. This case therefore concerns an important part of the defence. The history of Oscarsborg began in the 1830s, when proposals were discussed for what was to become Oscarsborg. As far as I know, the first stage of construction was completed in the revolution year 1848, and the fixation was completed in 1853. Later, Oscarsborg was modernised and updated several times. It is not only that Oscarsborg is an old and venerable fortress, to which the case-rapporteur also pointed; the lowering of Blücher 9 April 1940 is perhaps the most famous and mentioned moment in modern Norwegian war history. All the North have a relationship with this day, with Oscarsborg and Blücher. History writing is demanding and not always as precise exercises, but it is obvious that the lowering of Blücher contributed to the king and the government of Nygaardsvold getting out of the country and in security. Today, the flag of Oscarsborg is not divisive. A lot of people think it's cruel. I understand that. We can't or will not let Oscarsburg fall due. That was why the Workers' Party presented this Document No. The 8th proposal. Oscarsborg must be kept in the best possible way. And what does that mean? This includes, inter alia: that we must ensure that dignity is respected. We must ensure that the public, the public, has access to the islands. We must ensure that defence history and tradition emerge clearly, and will be a central element of future use. We must prevent commercial interests from overstepping the cultural value of Oscarsborg. We must prevent the Oscarsborg fastening from being replaced by tivioli or circus. We need to look at the possibilities for a new military presence. These are principles and thoughts that we have now come to grips with. Oscarsborg fastening is a national clenodium that must and must be maintained. That is why the Storting will today decide to withdraw Oscarsborg from the Ministry of Labour and Administration's investigation into the country's cultural heritage and treat it as a matter of its own. Even before the fall, we have to decide on Oscarsborg's future. Today, in the form of decisions, we are asking the Government to return to the Stortingen in the budget proposal with proposals for possible military presence at Oscarsborg. This can be combined with proper private operation. I am very grateful that a unanimous committee now supports the Labour Party's proposal and looks forward to a solution that will safeguard the dignity of Oscarsborg in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e144	I refer you to the two previous posts. I agree with what was said. But for the sake of order: since the split flag was taken down from Oscarsborg, the fastening under various governments is, of course, managed entirely in line with the leaders given by the Stortinget. Since this is the day of release itself, as the rapporteur said, it is very good that the Stortinget makes a decision to ensure a worthy future use of a defence agency that, with its efforts in 1940, contributed significantly to shaping Norway's further history. As the representative Leif Lund said, it was the very prerequisite for ensuring greatness, government and royalties. However, as a representative of Hedmark, I have to be allowed to add that this food was followed up a day later, in Midskogen, which led to the Germans being careful about exactly what the representative Lund was talking about, being prevented for the second time. Oscarsborg is a national monument that is well preserved today and which is to be well preserved in the future, to the delight and benefit of the public. The Minister of Defence has clearly underlined this. For fastening works that have been decided to be withdrawn from military use, provision shall be made for worthy alternative use. This has been done successfully in connection with other national fastening plants, such as: Fredrikstad fortification and Fredriksten, and I am sure that there will also be alternatives for the Oscarsborg fortification that well preserves the cultural historical value of the fortress. Some – whether they are parties or individuals – fear of commercialisation of the Oscarsborg fortress is groundless. Finding the proper use of the national fastening plants is the main challenge. However, the development and revitalisation of the properties presupposes the exploitation of income-intensive opportunities, such as renting. At the same time, it is important that good conditions should be given to existing cultural establishments. The goal is to get live fortifications, where history and aesthetics will benefit the public in the future. This is possible without reducing cultural historical values, with civil administration and state ownership — where appropriate, as the Committee says: A combination of limited military presence and other activities, including possible private financing of military presence, is considered. Like the other speakers, I would like to stress the importance of a unanimous committee behind this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e157	This is a matter that is important to us. It is nice that it can be treated on May 8th, and in addition to that three days before Oscarsborg will celebrate its 150th birthday. There is also one thing where all the speakers are going to agree, and I agree with what the case rapporteur and the speakers who have spoken then have said. Although Oscarsborg is now 150 years old, Kaholmene, as they are called these islands on which Oscarsborg is located, has a much longer history as a defense agency. As far back as the 1600s, almost 200 years before the country got its own big business, we had a defense firm out on the Kaholms as a forward line of defense to protect Christiania. As others have said, it is probably particularly connected with Oscarsborg on 9 April 1940, but this fortress also has a much longer and a wide history, both military and cultural history. It has meant a lot to society in many ways. When Blücher was lowered on April 9, Oscarsborg was bombed for 24 hours – over 300 bombs were dropped over Oscarsborg. The fort stood against this attack. Without claiming to be completely precise, I think we can divide Oscarsborg into two areas. One part is the fortress itself south of Kaholmene. There we have today the most important part of the Oscarsborg Festungsmuseum, and the Kystartilleriet museum is there. Then we have the northern part of the Kaholms. There we have teaching buildings, catering buildings, kitchens, canteens, barracks, residential buildings, commandant residences and administrative facilities. We think this part of the bonding area might be interesting to see in different ways. I don't ignore the fact that you can have activity and teaching activity here, or that you can have a part of a total experience center here. The fort itself must be taken care of. Such a construction works are due very quickly. It is not without reason that we want the defence to be responsible for this part. It is the Defence that has competence and knowledge of this type of building. It is not without reason that the Defence Department itself provides the Defence Museum in Norway. However, I would not hesitate to point out that the audience's availability has to be present when it comes to this fastening plant. The audience must be able to visit and experience Oscarsburg in the future as they do today, and as they did before, while the split flag was out there. Then there was good contact and cooperation between the military management of Oscarsborg and various cultural institutions. We had opera there, acting, art exhibitions, etc., and I think that's all there is to be able to continue under military leadership at Oscarsborg. Once again, as far as the northern part is concerned, I will not fail to mention that the state is sitting here in an area that is likely to suit a country's educational centre. Everything is there: the accommodation, the teaching facilities – everything you need. And the vicinity: it's an hour by boat from Oslo to Oscarsborg, or 45 minutes by road and 5 minutes by boat to Oscarsborg. There the Prime Minister could also have his conversations with other Heads of State, to the extent that it would be desirable to have such a place. Or meetings in connection with Norway’s role as a participant in discussions between conflicting parties could well be organised there. All of this, I believe, should be assessed. I am very pleased that there is a unanimous defence committee that has gone in to maintain this place at the hand of the state and under military leadership. It is that even though we are a modern, efficient and active society in all sorts of ways, not everything can be turned into money, not everything can be commercialized. I don't think even the most thought-out market librarian would find it particularly opportunistic or relevant to suggest Akershus Castle sold to hotels – it has a brilliant location and could certainly collect a lot of money – or that the Troldhaugen outside Bergen would become a hamburgerbar. I doubt that you want that kind of development in society. Oscarsborg is in this category, and it is very important and right that we take good care of it. We're also going to hand something over to our descendants, not just shares, which have some fluctuation in value.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e176	Congratulations on the day! 8 May is a special day, and Oscarsborg is a special historical monument. As part of the change of defence, in spring 2001, the Stortinget decided to shut down the military activity at Oscarsborg. About the same time, Stortinget asked the government then to investigate the future use of fasteners that the Defense would no longer use. The Stoltenberg Government therefore initiated a work under the direction of the Minister of Labour and Administration to accommodate the permanent management of the properties to remain in the State’s ownership. The Stortinget was informed about in St.meld. No 4 for 2001–02, and had no comments on it. This government has continued the work of the previous government and the decision of the Grand Duchy. A unanimous increase now wants to take Oscarsburg out of the Minister of Labour and Administration's overall investigation, and it is unproblematic for the Government. For the Government, it is most important to preserve the cultural values and facilitate an alternative use of the fortifications, because military activity has ceased. The aim is to make the fastening works more accessible to the public and to offer valuable and exciting experiences. The history of installations shall be disseminated in an exciting and more attractive manner. The organisation of such use requires a good knowledge of local circumstances, opportunities and constraints and will initially be quite comprehensive and labour-intensive. Defence buildings have set up an interim administration pending the Ministry of Administration's investigation, and defence buildings have, precisely in their connection with the Defence Point competence in order to safeguard the very special cultural and natural historical values of the fastening works. At the same time, cooperation is established with other environments competent and experienced in the development of cultural-historical properties. I perceive that Stortinget supports this work. Agreements shall develop the properties for civil purposes. For the government it has never been relevant to sell our national fortifications, and it is well known to the committee. I'm clarifying it anyway, because from a leader in the evening post today you could get a sense that it has actually been an alternative in the past, which it hasn't been. However, these old installations require substantial resources for maintenance. In this context, it is important to provide a financing model that does not make fastening plants dependent on large public funds. At the same time, the civil use of the fastening works is the main means of securing revenue and thus maintenance and preservation. It is of course a prerequisite that simultaneous use does not impair the protective value of the fastenings. New activities shall take into account museum and cultural and historical interests, and applicable regulation of protective provisions shall be respected and taken into account. Oscarsborg has a special historical significance and is a national cultural memory of great value. The ambition is for Oscarsborg to become a living museum, and I want to come up with creative solutions for use and conservation. Cooperation with local and private bodies will be a major focus in this process. Oscarsburg's fastening will be put out for rent in a short time. A rental offer has been made once before, without finding a relevant partner. Defence buildings aim to identify users who can take advantage of the unique opportunities available at Oscarsborg — the cultural-historical environment, the location of the fjords and the fine natural areas. It is clear that it would be preferable to rent out the entire attachment to one lessee, in order to have the best possible official control of the use and development of the attachment area, and of course a tight contract agency will be established. I hope it is possible to find such a tenant, who will give us sufficient funds, so that Oscarsburg becomes as much self-financing as possible, because that is the best guarantee for future maintenance and protection. At the same time, it is clear that ensuring public access and putting in place a high-quality concept of distinctiveness that appears attractive is a premise for a future agreement. I have noted that the Government is asking for an assessment of a possible new limited military presence at Oscarsborg, following the decision of the Stortinget in June 2001. It will be assessed in an overall budgetary context and submitted to the Stortinget. I am very pleased that there is unanimity in the Chamber. I am very pleased that we have a common ambition to succeed in a new use of Oscarsborg, and I would remind you that in a situation where the defense is modernizing to think new, modern and future, it is important to stick to our roots backwards. Especially in a time of great change and change, having an anchor fastener and clear roots that keeps us in place, very, very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e195	Let me first, as committee leader, thank both the case rapporteur and the other committee for their willingness to reach an agreement on a matter that has both defence-historical and cultural significance in our society. So I want to join the Evening Post today, which in the leadership position notices that it fits perfectly well that the Stortinget ensures Oscarsborg's fastening just on the day of release, the 8th of May. There are several of our fortifications that represent historic milestones where our country's fate has been decided. We owe it to those who contributed to the tearing down of these national monuments in history, to treat the fastenings with respect and not to do anything that could be perceived as in the worst case as an incident. And what do I mean by that? Well, commercial exploitation without the necessary ethical framework. On this basis, I am pleased that Bergenhus is still assured of military presence, among other things. by the local HV administration moving there and the attachment facility having a military commander. The situation for Oscarsborg, however, is quite precarious, and there are several speakers who have expressed it here. After almost ten months without a commander and someone who appears to be responsible, a lapse has already been noticed. This was the fear of the then Defence Committee when, in June 2001, it unanimously agreed to ask the Government to return to the Stortinget with its own case about the fortresses that had been decided to be taken out of military use. It was also a Document No. Eight proposals by Mr Røsjorde and Mr Width, among others. on the basis of which this unanimous decision and the unanimous decision were adopted. The Ministry of Defence chose to send the matter to the Ministry of Labour and Administration to see the fastening works in conjunction with other protected buildings in our long-range country. The problem is that there is the matter, without there being any plans to get to Stortinget with the first, as far as I am aware. The year 2005 has been suggested to me for the conclusions of the cultural memory project. It's too late for Oscarsborg. Oscarsborg, which was built as a coastal fortress around 1850, is perhaps the national monument with the greatest cultural historical significance. Oscarsborg robs in Norway's history as hardly any other castle or building, or for that matter monument. Saturday a week and a half ago, TV2 had a “Reflector” program that I recommend to see, if anyone can get hold of it. On April 9, 1940, Oscarsborg had less than half a war crew. Nevertheless, both the torpedo battery and the Coke battery were able to be manned. And as everyone knows, the German management vessel for the Oslo Group – Blücher – was lowered. So it was possible for the royal family and for the government to get away in time. Oscarsborg's lowering of Blücher decided the course of events in the April days of 1940. Let me stress that we are not going to have any fixation defenses, but we are going to take care of and we are going to treat a place like Oscarsborg with the respect that the castle deserves. Personally, I believe that it was wrong to remove the commander, or the military presence at Oscarsborg. Whatever activity you choose to add to Oscarsborg in a slightly wider sense – course activities, cultural events, museums, which are there, private and public activities – must be done with respect for the environment that is there. Today, the Stortinget also decides that the Ministry must return to the budget proposal with a proposal for a possible new military presence at Oscarsborg. This can then be combined with private activities that respect the dignity of the citizen. Finally, something that does not concern either Oscarsborg or the fastenings in that sense, except that there is a responsibility to manage the fastenings. I am genuinely concerned about the mandate given to Defence Building – we have also dealt with this earlier in an interpellation – and the way in which they manage the mandate. Perhaps Defence Buildings should have a clearer link with the administration and the ministry and be subject to clearer political governance. Decisions have been taken in this Chamber on Defence Construction. It is in some situations right, in my opinion, to re-examine matters and evaluate them in the light of experience. We should probably also do that in the case of Defence Building.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e216	The former commander and the headmaster of the Oscarsborg fortress, Tor Hovland, pronounced to the Eastern Blade earlier this spring: ‘I am sure Norway would not have been the country it is today if Blücher had not been lowered from Oscarsborg on 9 April 1940.’ The opinion says everything about the national historical significance of its 150-year-old Oscarsburg fortress, and why it is so important to take care of such a historic monument. Since the Storting unanimously decided to take the attachment out of military use, on a proposal from the previous Labour Party government, there is some confusion about Oscarsborg's continued existence. Among other things, it has created the impression that we are now facing commercialisation and even the sale of national monuments of great cultural historical value. To make it clear, it has never been possible to sell Oscarsborg, or any other fastening for that matter. There has also been no need to rent out building stock and areas to anyone and risk making such an area any amusement park. This should be unnecessary to clarify both after what the Minister of Defence has said today, and after what the Cooperation Government has previously said. The point for the Right and for the Cooperation Government is to facilitate a worthy alternative use of the fastening works, as the Committee has unanimously agreed. This must mean taking into account the history, tradition and culture represented by the fastening. At the same time, the cultural activity already under way in Oscarsborg must be given good conditions in the future. Of course, this applies to the fastening museum, and this applies to e.g. activity exploiting the fact that the castle at Oscarsborg is one of the country's most beautiful outdoor arenas. A unanimous committee believes it would be appropriate to withdraw Oscarsborg's attachment from the Ministry of Labour and Administration's investigation and deal with it as a matter of its own. Hopefully, this will help to remove any doubt that the authorities will facilitate the further development and rental of Oscarsborg, which will give us a living fastening plant that will be accessible to the public and enable us to continue the history it represents to new generations. That's what this Defence Building is all about in order to get tenants and users to Oscarsborg. The availability to the public of, and consideration of, traditions and historical values in an ethically and aesthetically sound manner must be given to the consideration of a good price, so to speak. Whether a military presence is necessary to ensure the proper use of the fastening plant, I do not take a stand at this time. However, it is good if the Government can come back with an assessment of that issue in the context of the State budget, as the Defence Committee unanimously states.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e234	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The date taken into account and with the consensus of the debate, this must well be characterised as an appropriate salutation of the day. [[Food, see page 2782]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e252	I would also like to congratulate you on the day, but I would otherwise like to focus on the even more detailed history of this case, which concerns the Ombudsman’s report on the activities for the year 2002. The Committee's position is unanimous. The statistics show that of the 101 complaints cases dealt with last year, the proportion was 36 pst. The extensive shift and downsizing that is now taking place in the Defence Department has not resulted in a large increase in the number of complaints. The Committee is satisfied with this, although the number of complaints in the defence does not in itself represent a safe parameter, but more is an indication of a situation. I would like briefly to touch on some of the issues on which the Ombudsman is particularly concerned in his report and on which the joint opinion is concerned. The Ombudsman’s subject matter does not have significant comments on the new rules governing the rules of trust in the defence, but is concerned that the new appeal mechanism should not reduce the Ombudsman’s access to a subsequent assessment of the proceedings on behalf of the Grand Duchy. The Committee supports this and assumes that the role of the Ombudsman is not impaired in this area. In previous years, the Ombudsman noted that the Chief of Defence’s implementing directive for the introduction of minimum rates for welfare purposes has been complied with only to a limited extent by the military departments, but that this, with few exceptions, has been complied with for 2002. This is a positive improvement. The Committee further shares the view that this mechanism should be continued with the allocation through the respective defence sectors, and notes the assumption that any reorganisation of the library service and the offer of artists at the various welfare events must be assessed cost-effectively, so that the reorganisation itself does not result in an unintended deterioration of the library service and the artist service. It is important to clarify that the reorganisation of the defence must not contribute to the weakening of soldiers’ welfare services. Adult training in Defence is important for many reasons. Adult training in Defence shall include, but not be limited to: be a compensation for the loss of education and practice resulting from the provision of a statutory first-time service. Adult defence training should be maintained at a level that continues to ensure that the offer is perceived as a real compensation for the year in which the initial service is served. Adult training shall enhance the civil competence of vulnerable crews, trainees and contract officers and the offer should be meaningful for all these groups. The Committee has noted that the conversion of defence has led to the use of the local adult training offices for the purposes of continuing training and training among the personnel assigned to them and that these developments are likely to continue. It is important to maintain the opportunities for flexible use of adult training resources, without prejudice to the interests of soldiers. It is also a major challenge to provide information on adult education at an earlier date than today, so that you can plan what you want to do while you are in the service before you meet. The Committee would ask for an assessment of this in view of possible measures. There are currently incomplete health and health statistics in the Defence for 2002, but 2002 appears to have been a normal year. The Ombudsman is particularly concerned in his report with the prevention of freezing damage. The Committee, in its comments, has supported the emphasis on the need to prevent freezing damage and will request that specific measures be assessed by the departments where such damage occurs most frequently. Military medical education and competence centres consider the health status of the teams involved in international operations to be satisfactory, and it appears that the stress assessment team for international operations is becoming more and more deeply involved. The Committee would assume that post-mortem and post-participation effects may increase the prevalence of international operations by increasing levels, and would ask for particular attention to be paid to this. There has been a decrease in the number of researched issues in the Armed Forces drug groups from 2001 to 2002. This is positive. The causes of the decline may be many, but it has, among other things, Over the course of 2002, there has been active work on drug prevention at the High Command of the Defence Agency, and extra resources have been put into the work. Drug problems in society in general are serious. The Committee has noted in its comments that it is unfortunate that the presence of ‘adults’ has become weaker outside the ordinary term of service in the Defence, and we will request that this development be closely followed. In the annual report for 2002, the Ombudsman recommended a bonus scheme for the provision of initial services, and this is maintained in this annual report. The issue of protective status measures will be presented to the Storting and, in its comments, the Committee has called for this work to be intensified. The Committee has also noted that the excessive watch and duty time burden caused by the shortage of personnel, which has been pointed out for several years both in reports and in the Committee's comments, now appears to be somewhat alleviated, and finds this to be positive. I recommend with this the unanimous setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e288	Quite briefly just a few comments on the message. The first concerns adult training. I very much agree with the point made by the rapporteur here. It is important that adult training is maintained at such a level, both economically and professionally, that the soldiers feel that they will get something back when they have completed the duty of protection, even civilly. It is therefore important, as we have pointed out, that before they meet, the soldiers are made aware of the career level there are opportunities to get in the defence of civil education. I think it is important to emphasise what the case rapporteur was talking about, and we need to coordinate the forces in the Defence – the Swedish Defence Agency, etc. - to get it done. The amount of adult education has fallen somewhat in recent years. It's probably due to the fact that the soldier coals have become a little smaller. But at least we have to try, as it points out, to keep a high level. What's been a danger in the last few years, and as I've seen from numbers and statistics, is that those who are graduates go into unemployment. That was an increase of 40 pst. according to the Evening Post for a time back. We cannot, as responsible politicians, accept that once you have a duty of protection and spend that time, you have to go out into unemployment. The second matter I would like to briefly address is this with state-of-the-art measures. As the rapporteur said, the government will come back to it in the spring, when we get the full long-term message. But I think it is important that we look seriously at that matter. If we don't do that, I have a big problem gradually defending the general protection obligation as it is today, because it's very unfair. It's under 20 pst today. by Norwegian youth serving the verne obligation, while the other 80 pst. relieves the burden it is. And then we have to give the duty of protection such content both economically and educationally that we can defend it against everyone. I note – the defence committee has been travelling and actually came home yesterday – that there is a greater and greater transition to professional forces across Europe. I just want to make it clear that if the Council of State does not come back to the Storting with truly state-of-the-art protective measures, I think society needs to take up a wide-ranging debate on whether we should leave the Norwegian protection obligation and move on to a professional army.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e301	8 May is a good day to discuss the state of the defence and to look forward to it. Document No 5 for 2002–03 is perhaps the most important document for defence during the year. Here we can see how the defense works at good and bad for those who are in the defense's clothes. I would like to make a few sentences on the status-enforcement measures for those in need of protection, which the Progress Party has seen as very important and, not least, fair for those who are serving the duty of protection. The obligation to protect has a long way back to the saga period of the nineteenth century, the so-called lease runs until 1866, when the first full protective duty law was written, and until today, when more than half of the country's boys do not have a protection obligation. The rest of the youth who earns this year must be compensated for better than it is today. This can be done in the form of higher daily allowances, many more bonuses after earned protection, extra school credits, more well-being, such as: more return trips, more leisure activities, even more interesting service with even better training, the burden of the service, etc. This is something we will look at later, and I can promise that the Progress Party will support state-of-the-art measures as well as actions that will improve the daily lives of the Norwegian soldier. At the same time, we also need to ask why so many do not have the duty of protection, and what those who do not, for several reasons, can do – compared to those who do away with the usual duty of protection and their needs and opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e316	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2782]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e332	In the context of the treatment of the 2003 State Budget, adopted in December 2002, it was decided to introduce environmental taxes on hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons, also known as the HFC/PFC charge. The purpose of the charge is to reduce the total Norwegian level of emissions of harmful greenhouse gases contributing to global warming. The imposition of charges is rarely a popular exercise in relation to those affected who have to change their behaviour or have the framework conditions for their activities deteriorated. However, tax policy must have a comprehensive perspective. The co-operation government has reduced taxes and taxes by nearly DKK 20 billion during 2002 and 2003, and most of this has benefited business. If you have the ability to distort individual charges to also have a positive environmental impact in addition to a proceeds effect, while reducing the overall level of taxes and charges, I think this is very good in relation to the business environment. The decision to introduce the HFC/PFC fee is only a few months old. The fee had worked for barely two months when Document No. 8:74 with proposals to review the experience of the fee was promoted. The proposal is thus clearly an attempt to reverse a decision in a general government budget, adopted only a few months ago. At the same time as the levy was adopted, it was also decided to establish a reimbursement scheme for the HFC/PFC gases. This scheme is being implemented during the current year and has therefore not been in use during the period during which the proposers wish to receive an evaluation of the fee. In a letter from the Ministry of Finance, with its opinion on this proposal, it is underlined that the charging authorities and environmental authorities are committed to the smooth implementation of the fee in relation to the enterprises concerned. Various regulatory adjustments and clarifications are therefore considered along the way, including: after recording from the industries concerned. So the fee is obviously in an implementation phase. In Document No: 8:74 it is also proposed, in addition to a general review, to examine the number of enterprises that are not able to benefit from the reimbursement scheme as a result of the direct release of the gas into the atmosphere of the production process. For such enterprises, it is proposed to conclude agreements to phase out the use of the HFC gas. The letter from the Ministry of Finance refers to the fact that this issue was assessed prior to the imposition of the levy, in conjunction with the identification of a single enterprise, Jackon AS, where a large part of the gas is emitted during the production process. In relation to this company, the issue of a phase-out agreement was assessed, but rejected, because such an agreement would obviously have an impact on the emissions from that company, that in this case a special scheme would have resulted in increased pressure for more specific arrangements, that such a scheme would be more costly and administratively demanding, and that such a scheme would probably have to be submitted to ESA for approval in relation to competition law. So both environmental and non-discrimination considerations speak against this type of tax exemption. In addition, the letter from the Ministry of Finance comments on some of the allegations of the HFC/PFC tax that have been made in Document No. 8:74, and to which the Committee has paid little attention during the examination of this proposal. The majority of the Committee, on the other hand, show that the fee is clearly in an implementation phase and that it should be allowed to operate for a longer period before it is evaluated on a general basis. The majority also indicate that the decision on taxes and charges is mainly taken in the context of the treatment of the State budget and that there will be full opportunity to assess the HFC/PFC levy in the coming years. In the light of this, the majority of the Committee proposes that the proposal in Document No: 8:74 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e353	I agree with the rapporteur that charging can be an effective tool for reducing emissions of environmentally harmful substances, i.e. an instrument of environmental policy. In this case, it's not the best way to do it. A voluntary agreement was in place for the collection of most of the products using this gas in closed systems — heat pumps, cooling systems, fire-fighting equipment, etc. It was negotiated an agreement to further develop this. It would be the best environmental policy to go further, in cooperation with the industry. That is why the Workers' Party has always opposed the introduction of this fee. We thought it was better to continue on the path that had been started, and get into a cooperation agreement that could ensure that the gas was taken care of when the products that had these gases in themselves were disposed of, through a collection scheme. With regard to the one company identified, Jackon in Fredrikstad, which uses the gas to inflate insulation material, it has been systematically working over several years to reduce emissions or the use of climate-damaging gases, which it has reduced by 95 pst. The company is prepared to continue that work, and therefore it is a great shame that no basis has been found to enter into an agreement about it. It would also contribute to the environment. Now, the result is that these products are imported — produced with the same gas — into companies that we have no opportunity to intervene in order to obtain reduction agreements. That is why the Workers' Party is part of the proposal for proposal 1 in the vote, and I will deal with it. The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Coastal Party agree on the proposal to enter into such agreements with Jackon and, where appropriate, other companies in the same situation. On the other hand, the Labour Party agrees with the majority that evaluating this fee before the reimbursement system is in place and before it has worked particularly long is not appropriate. I would like to add that when the Progress Party finds that it is proposing this two months after the budget has been adopted, a budget for which they have voted and which contains a levy on gas, it is an attempt at a political tyre manoeuvre to avoid responsibility for what they have been doing here in the Chamber. That's what the Progress Party does, they're to be judged, not what they say they should have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e362	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e365	In the context of the 2003 budget, it was decided to introduce an environmental tax on hydrofluoric/perfluorocarbons, which has already had a good impact. The basis for the fee was basically that 2 pst. the Norwegian CO2 emissions would come from HFC/PFC. The State pollution control projection model described a theoretical development without the industry’s already established measures. Of these 2 pst. represents approx. 1.55 pst. emissions from the aluminium industry, emissions regulated by their own agreement. An effective heat pump for e.g. industrial or industrial purposes could result in a reduction of power consumption by up to 60 to 70 pst. The economic incentive to make such an investment disappears when the levy on HFCs/PFCs consumes the entire economic savings. The charge affects not only heat pumps but also a number of refrigeration plants using HFCs. In most cases, the costs of such facilities have increased by 15-20 pst, and the user organisation, FOKU, has gone out and recommended not to purchase such facilities, but to keep the HKFC facilities as far as possible. In practice, this counteracts the fee desired by the Norwegian authorities, namely the phasing-out of these facilities under the Montreal Protocol. This is a current problem for large parts of the fishing fleet. In addition, the levy appears to distort competition internationally. HFCs are used in many ship facilities and refrigeration/cooling containers for international use. Customers are mobile, and the Norwegian cold industry is at risk of losing many jobs. For example: Denmark is exempted – also for Danish vessels. HFCs are also used in fire-fighting systems and, in particular, on smaller vessels there are no adequate alternatives. The charge provides a three-four-fold increase in the price of such installations and may result in the use of less efficient facilities, at risk of loss of life and values. CO2 taxes in the case of fuel oils and fuels are consumed. Today’s system is accounting for imports as waste and therefore covers everything, including what is going on in tight systems. This is going to be completely unreasonable. If you first have to cover a fee, it must be right to do so on the emissions and at the same time have a refund scheme on what is returned to the approved reception. Such a scheme is available per year. not today. However, even with a functioning reimbursement scheme where the amount of the reimbursement is at a level that at least covers the average market price, the public charge and the costs associated with the return, the fee will have a number of negative effects, such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t Irregular imports of HFCs will create unfortunate distortions of competition in the market.The loss of foreign jobs and job losses will occur.The tax does not stimulate the phasing out of cold media regulated by the Montreal Protocol.The tax does not stimulate the transfer of technology and the use of natural cold media.The tax leads to unnecessary additional costs.The tax distorts competition in international competition. A good alternative to charging had been a number of technological measures implemented in cooperation with the industry. Finally, I would like to include in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e406	The representative Per Erik Monsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2782]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e428	I am aware that the Health Directorate, on a mission from the Ministry of Health, has investigated how to achieve the best possible interaction between different levels of health care with special attention to the future organisation, association and funding of hospitals. An important area in the interaction between the levels of specialist healthcare and primary health services is the problem of ready-to-print patients from hospitals to a lower, professionally sound level. Even before the hospital reform came into force, there were serious problems in some places in the country to prescribe pre-treated patients to the municipalities, yes, this was such a big problem that some years ago the municipalities of Stortinget were imposed a daily ticket to the hospitals, and this daily ticket has increased significantly from 1 January 2003. There have also been restrictions on the time limit for alerting. The problem of outpatients staying in hospitals has increased considerably since the hospital reform was implemented from 1 January 2002, due to more efficient hospital operations and shorter lay time. The ready-to-print patients are often older, have many diagnoses and actually need intensive treatment and rehabilitation for a short or longer time. This poses major problems for municipalities, partly because there is a high shortage of nursing places and inadequate medical and nursing staff in the institutions. In particular, medical staff is irresponsibly low. Hospitals are therefore unable to provide adequate professional care for elderly patients discharged from hospitals who need intensive care as well as care over a short or extended period of time. For many years, Norway has had a tradition of having several hospitals that have been relieving the hospitals, a buffer for emergency hospitalisations and given good primary treatment, after treatment and follow-up. Hospitals have covered a kind of semi-intermediate service in several disciplines: emergency medicine, maternity care, general medical services, and some specialist health services such as: dialysis, telemedicine and rehabilitation. The ownership organisation and funding of hospitals has been somewhat different from one place to another. Most hospitals have been municipal or intermunicipal owned, and operations have been financed partly by agreement with specialist health services in the form of operating agreements with county municipalities from 2002. As I see it, it will now force itself forward a half-way service that we have to somehow solve because the hospitals have neither the necessary capacity nor medical quality to care for these patients who are now being printed out faster and faster from the hospitals, and this particularly applies to elderly patients. There now appears to be a strong need for a half-way service institution that can both take over the further treatment of patients from hospitals and also observe emergency patients before hospitalisation, relieve hospitals with rehabilitation, outpatient services, day care, general medical services, physiotherapy, medical services, etc. The few hospitals we've had in the country to now have actually acted as a half-way service institution. In the light of changes in the disease range, new medical developments with a strong transition to day care and outpatient treatment, hospitals now need a professional revitalisation with new organisation, new tasks and perhaps a new form of association. This has been addressed by the Health Directorate and proposes different models of organisation, ownership and form of association. In its study, the Health Directorate suggests that the revitalisation of hospitals with tasks in both specialist and primary healthcare should be referred to as ‘district medical centres’. It is, in my view, a bad idea, primarily for educational reasons. District medical centres can easily be confused with the district psychiatric centres, which unfortunately so far do not have the best word for themselves in the local population. Rather, one should choose the term ‘nearly hospital’ or keep the term ‘infirmary’. I also think that the term ‘nearly hospital’ would be easier to accept in the population, maintaining the hospital concept, which will still provide a sense of proximity and security in the community. If the hospital reform organised as a business becomes the success that many of us believe, the patient lists will come down to a level that makes not all of our hospitals get the patient volume necessary to maintain a professionally sound level of treatment. Even today, hospitals are advocating patients. In such a situation, some smaller local hospitals will have to have tasks other than those they currently have — more selectively simpler surgery, specialist health services, day care and outpatient clinics, perhaps feeding rooms, observation and care centres, but with reduced medical emergency preparedness. It could also be useful to build new half-way service institutions, which we can use to call close-end hospitals. In this context, it must be possible to open up private investors and operating companies, such as humanitarian organisations without commercial operating companies, and commercial operating companies should also be opened up. Today, such a two-way service institution is being developed in Bærum, in cooperation between the municipality of Bærum and the municipality of Asker, Bærum Hospital and Selvaag Care, which I would recommend to the Minister of Health to stay informed about. It is crucial, however, that near-hospitals become the main responsibility of specialist health services and businesses, both organisationally, professionally and financially. In the Hagen investigation, funding for hospitals has also been taken into account. The emergency hospitals, as the responsibility of the specialist health service, also make it unnecessary to bring the restructuring of local hospitals into the process of self-prevention. Finally, I would like to recommend to the Minister of Health not to go in to give hospitals the name ‘district medical centres’, but to consider the near-hospital name, or to keep the disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e456	There is considerable work going on around the country related to structural changes in hospital services. Both the changes in medical technology, improvements in communications and demographic changes mean that yesterday’s organisation and division of tasks do not always meet today’s and tomorrow’s needs. Work by regional health enterprises aimed at improving the hospital structure of today is in line with the intentions of the hospital reform and other leaders of the Stortinget, for example. in the processing of the emergency message. Many of these investigations, in particular those involving proposals for the centralisation of functions, have led to considerable conflict. Several studies also propose the establishment of district mesidine centres, as part of structural changes associated with local hospitals. These studies refer to the report of the Directorate for Social and Health on this topic. The concept of a district medical centre, as defined in this report, is also the starting point for the interpellation of the representative Alvheim. The proposals and measures developed by regional health enterprises on the decentralisation of services and the strengthening of interaction between levels of service have not received the same attention as the proposals for centralisation. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to mention some of these and also focus on decentralisation and interaction as a very important area in a process of restructuring the hospital service. Health Nord has produced a report on interaction and decentralisation, entitled ‘Interaction is good for health’. A number of proposals have been presented to strengthen the interaction between service levels. Among other things, there is a proposal for a further bet in hospitals. In Health Mid-Norway several intermediate hospital units have been set up in cooperation between the municipality of St. Olavs Hospital and Trondheim. The aim is to provide patients with ready-to- print options and avoid placing them in a hospital corridor in crowded wards. There are a number of concrete examples of good co-location of specialist health services and primary health services, such as: Nord-Gudbrandsdal District Medical Centre, Valdres District Medical Centre, the decentralised outpatient clinic at Ørland Medical Centre and last but not least Alta Hospital. Finally, I would like to mention good experience from the national initiative on the decentralisation of psychiatric services in district psychiatric centres. I have a different idea of how this was received, than the representative Alvheim just said. These examples of decentralised services mark the beginning of a development I'm betting we'll see more of in the future. In a comprehensive health service, with continuous treatment chains, decentralisation is just as natural as centralisation of services. For this reason, I have called on regional health companies to provide systematic action to improve interaction with primary health services in 2003. We cooperate with the Local Governments' Central Association on this in a separate working group. Furthermore, I have asked that good interaction be established between grey zone patients between service levels, preferably through the co-location of offers. Patients are required to meet an overall service, which does not recognise the transition between levels of service and where assistance is offered on the basis of the treatment needs, even when this is at the borderline between the two levels of administration. In the transformation and restructuring of the service provision, it is – and should be – central to taking into account our extensive geography. An important dimension of a quality good offer is the availability of services. In particular, it concerns the provision of the most common conditions and offers to people with chronic and long-term health problems. I have therefore also taken the initiative that interaction and decentralisation should be a national strategic area for the five regional health enterprises. In this work, regional health enterprises will jointly pilot national strategies for a broad focus on a closer interaction with primary health services and the decentralisation of specialist health services, typically in their own units, such as: cold near-sickness. Cross-service cooperation is challenging. It is a question of finding the best solutions based on local circumstances, in cooperation where municipalities and health businesses are equal partners. Gray Sons will always be. We do not solve any grey zone problem by setting up our own grey zone management level. A grey zone between primary health services and specialist health services will always be dynamic and changing because the medicine is evolving. The problems of grey zone can only be solved in cooperation where those responsible on each side also assume a commitment of responsibility for cooperation, with a common commitment to solving the problems. The need for improved interaction between service levels was also the background to the Ministry's mission to the Directorate for Social and Health to look into this field. At the outset, in its report on district medical centres, the Directorate says that it has the character of a recording of the Hagen Committee and the Department. The report is therefore not to be seen as a professional guideline for the organisation of interaction actions. It will be a continuous task to adapt the comprehensive specialist health service provision both to our vast country, to changes in the picture of the disease and to the changes in medical technology. In the same way that there are gains to collect from separating planned offers, such as: heart surgery in separate units would benefit patients from expanding healthcare businesses with decentralised hospital wards and establishing interaction measures with municipalities based on the relevant population base and epidemiology – and in particular on the basis of medical technological developments. The decentralised services can cover a relatively large range of specialist health services, including specialist services in the pre- and post-hospital areas. This could be done, for example, by: be maternity wards, outpatient clinics and rehabilitation units. There may also be nursing homes with observation and treatment units for patients with aggravation of known conditions, and there may be hospice units — often established in cooperation with primary health services. Patients shall meet, as far as possible, a coherent service where there are well-adapted offers, regardless of whether the patient’s needs lie in the grey zone between the levels of service. In cities too, there will be professional gains in offering between service levels, so-called intermediate measures. The private Red Cross Clinic at Frogner in Oslo is an example of co-located primary and specialist health services in a city. The technical justifications for this type of action are many. Firstly, it is unrealistic to think of a reversal of the specialisation in medicine, especially in the specialist health service. Patients are also expected to increasingly seek the best available treatment outcomes, as we have seen in the discussion on breast-care surgery and in the new medical knowledge of infarct treatment, which requires specialised equipment and personnel. This will also apply to some types of decentralised offer. More effective pain management in hospice units and effective rehabilitation of stroke patients require specific competence. Experience shows that better patient treatment can be provided by setting up specialised units for these services. For elderly patients in particular, long-term hospitalisation may be stressful, with the need to integrate a medical-technological environment, with small opportunities for normal living, such as: in an overcrowded medical department. For these patients, it may be better to be admitted to a nursing home or hospital once they have completed their examination and the treatment schedule is in progress. Last but not least, this type of action is an important benefit of providing specialist health services in the districts, so that patients can not travel long distances to hospitals. The quality of the treatment is also central to the structural measures taken in the case of emergency preparedness in the case of small hospitals. We are facing a major challenge here. Several of the hospitals concerned have an average of one emergency hospitalisation or less per year. 24 hours in surgery. The acute functions of soft tissue surgery, orthopaedics and food/gynecology are now often covered by a surgeon trained in general surgery and with extensive experience, including orthopaedics and birth aid. When these surgeons gradually go off at the age limit, they will have to be replaced by a total of three specialists because of the specialisation in medicine. It will be difficult to create attractive jobs based on the tasks offered to these doctors. The solution will then be to maintain the functions of so-called substitute fats or to centralize some emergency functions in order to obtain a better patient base. Centralisation of emergency functions may be complemented by the development of ambulance transport and an upgrade of the treatment provided here. For example, in the ambulance you can transfer the heart rhythm to a specialist in a hospital and on that basis start treatment already in the car. This reduces the importance of the distance to the hospital. For me, as Minister of Health, it is essential to ensure that the population in the districts has a good quality offer, in line with what else is offered to the population. A long-term solution for our local hospitals with incubators, with the lack of the professional continuity it implies, does not appear to be an attractive alternative in this context. Professional quality depends on the competence that can be built up and maintained, which in turn is linked to the basis of activity. I understand, however, the concern that people in an area must feel when they read that there is a proposal for the local hospital to be converted into a district medical centre. Regardless of whether the proposal is substantively concerned with providing one emergency function, e.g.: in surgery, to another hospital in the area, the proposal for a name change may make it a major change in the functions of the hospital. I would therefore say that the term district medical centre can be an unfortunately chosen name in such a context. Other terms, on which the representative Alvheim was involved, such as a nearby hospital, a hospital department of an enterprise or simply a clinic, which has a clear reference to the specialist healthcare service, seem to be a better alternative in this context. Both the name and content of the offer should be determined by local conditions, such as where it is appropriate to have food services, outpatient clinics, rehabilitation services, etc. At a time when differentiation and specialisation in services are a strong trend, there is little intention to categorise different offers under specific terms. Hospitals are no longer categorised as local hospitals, central hospitals or regional hospitals. On the contrary, there is a misguided trend to specialise in some areas to meet the need for specialised treatment or to reduce particularly long-term patients’ cows. The name chosen for the different services should reflect the content of the offer. It should also apply to decentralised offers and interaction measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e482	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that the Minister of Health had a broad approach to my interpellation. It was positive and very important right in the time we're in, when we're working on structural change in all companies. I am particularly pleased that the restructuring of the services to be provided should be of such a nature as to take into account the extensive geography of the country. Of course, I am pleased that the Minister of Health specifically mentioned this. There is also reason to welcome the fact that the Minister of Health has already taken initiatives in relation to businesses, and that a decentralised national strategy to design better health services also in the districts and in the neighbourhoods, although it does not necessarily have to be a full hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e496	In the extension of the representative's posts, let me point out that in the implementation of the structural processes currently under way, the security of the population is exceptionally important. Access to good hospital services is fundamental to people's experience of a safe and good society. I have therefore provided clear guidance on how such processes should be carried out in health businesses. The link between policy and national objectives and framework decisions shall be clear, processes and documentation shall focus on the professional anchoring of actions, the various stakeholders shall be involved in processes before decisions are taken, and active information shall provide transparency on the basis of decisions and the implementation of actions. Last but not least, it is important that the population has a security that the procedure and the final decisions on these important issues are addressed in a good and correct manner within the system established here in this Chamber. Let me briefly remind you about that. The overall leadership of health policy has been defined through the treatment of key health policy documents by the Storting and the State budget. The leaders were subsequently communicated to the regional health establishments through the annual management document. Then it is the task of regional health companies to ensure that the governance requirements communicated are implemented within the framework of the degrees of freedom provided by the system. They shall report annually on the operation and on their plans. On the basis of this report, I have notified Stortinget that I will make a plan and message part in connection with St.prp. No 1, where current issues are presented, so that their assessment can be included in the overall consideration of the State budget proposal by the Storting. It is also such that the system of undertakings ensures that regional health undertakings are to present matters of major importance to the ministry. These shall be dealt with by the Minister of Health, who is the Enterprise Meeting in these cases. I have had a somewhat broad approach to the answer to the question, on which the interpellant was involved. It is because these matters are of such a nature that they are not suitable for single-word answers. I still believe that it is important to provide good information about the width and basis of these processes, because it is not the way to preserve a structure and a division of tasks just as it is today, for all the future represents security. The safest thing to say about such a strategy is that it is very insecure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e505	The launch of the term ‘district medical centre’ has created a great deal of unrest both at political level and in parts of the population, especially in those associated with smaller hospitals, because many are linked to the possible reduction of existing hospitals. The unfortunate thing in this case has been that the content of the term ‘district medical centre’ has been partially undefined — at least unknown — and has not been translated into documents that the Storting has been actively dealing with. In addition to the practical examples of decentralised services — existing and possible in the future — to which reference was made. I very much welcome an initiative to improve the interaction between specialist health services and primary health services. There is still much to be done to improve the quality of healthcare and to improve resource use. This interaction must be developed independently of the name of the kind of specialist health service that was the starting point for this interpellation. Adding up to decentralised services is, I think, a vital prerequisite for the success of the health reform that we have now introduced and are in the process of implementing. In this way, I am very pleased with the reasoning and the plans that the Minister of Health obviously has for the further development of healthcare. The basic element of the health reform was the responsibility placed on businesses, both in terms of organisation and in terms of operations, through legislation and thus the governance of the health minister. This also applies to the authority they have been given, which they will receive continuously — or at least from time to time — through the discussions of the Storting, and also as the Minister of Health explained that it has been set up. The question of name is probably not crucial, but I also think that you should have an open relationship with it, because it means something purely psychological and perhaps practical. So also in that respect, I think the Health Minister had good reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e518	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for bringing up a very topical topic. As he and the Minister of Health explained, there is now considerable work in regional health enterprises to look at functional distribution and division of tasks internally. It has naturally led to a significant debate and commitment to the different communities being affected. It is also important that the debate and the commitment should take place and that one should have a discussion on the solutions that are now being considered by health businesses. It's an expression that people have a strong commitment and many views on the local health service. There are in a way two different developments leading in the discussion and in the development of medicine. It is a combination of centralisation and specialisation that is often highlighted in the debate, that the disciplines become narrower, that medicine is becoming more and more advanced, and that thus one needs centralisation. But what one might not notice is the significant decentralization that is also taking place, so that if one looks back in time, for example, is. many of the tasks assigned today, many of the current hospital stays, and not least much of what is going on in outpatient clinics, tasks that previously belonged naturally to hospitals. That way, there's a duality here that I absolutely believe is for the patient's best. In this way, I believe that in a discussion about local hospitals, about nearby hospitals, which is what the term interpellant has the most sense of – and I fully agree with him in – it is a concept that is much better in line with the perception that both people and those who work in the area have about the activity that is going to take place. This is also a debate that will take place in the context of the debate on the follow-up to the Hagen Committee, where not least the form of funding and funding will be essential in order to succeed in such a strategy. In conclusion, I would like to draw the Minister of Health's response to the interpellation and join it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e529	I perceive that there are two essential elements involved in the interpellation that has been traveled. One is the symbolic force in the use of terms. We see how the concept of ‘local hospitals’ has a place in the population that, if it is to be replaced, creates insecurity, and you become uncertain about what will happen instead. So I want to get into the second element that I think is as important as the symbolic power of the terms, that is, the real content that the services are to be given. If this is the case, you want to develop a local hospital towards a new content where, for example: using new methods — providing dialysis in local hospitals that have not previously given it, providing cellular treatment in local hospitals that have not previously given it, using modern telematics services to make local hospital specialists available, while they were not available before, developing services with visits by specialists from other hospital units, has new outpatient services in a local hospital that had not been previously in use — would benefit the population from such a development. There is no need to warn against such developments, but on the contrary, there is reason to stimulate them. For my part, I would like to say that if you have a different concept than ‘local hospital’ and give it a content it hasn’t had before, which gives the population a better offer, it’s not the concept that’s central, but the content. Looking at the overall use of health resources, it is interesting to note that the trends we have seen over recent years have not gone in such a direction. The evening post has an article today that looks at resource use based on a collaborative data report, the distribution between psychiatry and somatic disease, and in terms of the share of local hospitals in the total resource use. Based on that report, it can be seen that the more specialised, centralised services of larger hospital units have increased their share of resources. There is nothing to suggest that local hospitals have gained a greater share of those resources. Such a development is a reason to warn against, because it means that instead of strengthening the basis of the pyramid that the health care system was supposed to be, it has strengthened the top of this pyramid. In this way, there is a legitimate fear in the population of taking action that is building up the local services rather than strengthening them. The Minister of Health has a task to do in convincing the people that the steps that they are going to take here are really meant to create greater proximity, create greater opportunities for the population in such a way that you get strengthened. That's why you pick up and kiss on symbols, like the term "local hospital," because you see that here you risk losing something instead of winning something. This is why it is important that both government and population growth be credible to convince the population that there is an increase in local investment and not the reduction of a type of service that is currently available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e549	Almost daily I get enquiries from individuals who are concerned that their local hospital should disappear. Many feel that they lose something valuable, and are uncertain about what remains after centralisation of important functions. The Christian People's Party takes this commitment seriously. Access to good hospital services is fundamental to people's experience of a safe and good society. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to ensure that patients receive a treatment based on knowledge and based on clear quality criteria. This may mean that some functions should be centralised in order to obtain a better patient base. Most of us would rather be operated on by an experienced surgeon and not by one who has only a few interventions a year. The Christian People's Party accepts some centralization, but we want to go far in decentralizing as many specialist health services as possible, as this interpellation is about. I am pleased that the Minister of Health so strongly clarified that interaction and decentralisation should be a national strategic area for regional health enterprises. Patients will benefit from good cooperation between primary and specialist health services. They want help based on the need they have, and are little concerned about who provides the services. This relationship between the services intends to provide patients with a good quality and to offer them at a medically sound level. It also expresses greater flexibility than we might be used to thinking about when it comes to traditional hospital operations. There are many good examples that this interaction works well. During the previous period, the Social Committee visited, among others: Alta Hospital. We were particularly impressed by how well the feeding room worked. I am convinced that more specialised health services can be decentralised. District outpatient clinics can relieve health firms both in advance and after hospitalisation. For elderly patients, this means that a person receives a good follow-up in the community so that a person escapes long trips and long hospital stays. The Christian People's Party is concerned about care at the end of life. We believe that hospice devices can be decentralized. In the final phase of life, in addition to good pain management, there is extra importance with closeness to their neighbors. It is said that dear child has many names. I agree that this with district medical centres seems to be of great value, and that for example. near hospitals more express the closeness to hospitals and specialized services desired by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e566	This is at least a two-part debate. There is both a conceptual debate, and there is a debate on the real content of specialist health services and on the interaction between specialist health services and primary health services. I would like to start by thinking about the situation we now have, with an increasingly tougher printing practice – I would like to say a more hard-handed printing practice. Not everyone has participated in the 24-hour payment scheme in this, but it is a reality that patients are being discharged more and more early, and that this phenomenon has been changed by talking about ready-to-print patients rather than pre-treated patients. Many of these patients are elderly, and many need, as the interpellant also said, intensive treatment and rehabilitation, as well as care and care for hospital stays. It is therefore important that we have an offer for these, an offer that many municipalities, especially small municipalities, cannot deal with alone. There's been a lot of talk about the hospital model and the half-way service, which is good in many cases. These are good examples of several places in the country, for example: in the valley of Gudbrand, in the valley of Valdres, and in the valley of Alta. But there is also another possibility, and that is to establish a higher medical and professional competence and preparedness at our hospital, with hospital beds, which are then both technologically and manned and arranged for this more intensive treatment and rehabilitation activity to be carried out. I think that discussion we should take care of before we decide on models, and it is well possible that we should practice both models. From several parties it has been said from this pulpit that the medical-professional part of our old and sick homes needs to be upgraded, and then you might see this in context and have two thoughts in your head at the same time. So it's this with the name or the value. I think that the name is secondary to this, but that it benefits from a medical-professional offer near the patients, including those in the districts, and not least an emergency medical emergency service, which is important. But the name is not entirely immaterial, because the name can deceive. I think that the term "district medical centre" is something you have to get used to, and maybe taste a little more. The hospital name is known. The term ‘nearly hospital’ is one of the ways I am more likely to deceive, at least if the benefit is not followed up properly. It will then be a game of words, but also of what the content of it really is. Emergency medical preparedness must not be weakened by the establishment of district medical centres or hospital models rather than local hospitals. I'm also a little startled by what the interpellant said in that context, that such a change of name makes it unnecessary to present a matter of the future of local hospitals for treatment in Stortinget. I strongly disagree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e582	I wanted to take part in the debate because one of my local authorities, Flora, has just applied to participate in a project directed by Health West to get to a nearby hospital. They also want to call it a nearby hospital rather than using a district medical center as a bypass. A goal of the project is to treat patients at the right level. In line with age developments in society and medical developments, we get a growing group of chroniclers such as the elderly, heart and lung diseases, cancer patients and rehabilitation wards — often with many, but perhaps separately, banal diseases. These are major users of hospital services and are in hospital for a long time. For these patients, it is important that the offer is professionally adapted and close. For the hospital it is important that the supply of this group of sheep is adapted to their diseases. In specialised central and regional hospitals, patients can easily reach a ‘high’ level of care, and they are, however, often swing door spaces between hospitals and the community care services. In order to try a solution with a local hospital, it is crucial to look at funding models, both in relation to the weighting of the DRG system and also in relation to where municipal responsibility for taking over should lie. In a project phase, all beds in a nearby hospital should be eligible for DRG funding. Another objective of such a project is to improve the interaction in an area where the hospital and the municipality have a wide variety of interests in relation to who will take the occupational and financial responsibility for the patient. Therefore, this must be heavily anchored both between the leaders and decision-makers and the staff who should occasionally be in contact with the patient. A local hospital where health workers from specialist health services and from the community health services cooperate in their day-to-day work will be a good venue for positive, professional and cost-effective treatment of patients’ needs. In order to achieve the objective of the model, several specialists must have working days at the local hospital in conjunction with the general public. At the same time, the municipality must bring in nursing staff and rehabilitation staff in order to ensure proper contact and transfer of competences. The model of a local hospital must also be recognised as an educational institution for a minimum of six months. Focusing on interaction between the First and Second Line Services and Chronic Space Care should be key content factors in the training of future doctors. One of the last national factors I want to consider, as one should consider against a near-hospital project, is the relationship between the treatment system and the public interest. The effect of the developments we see, with the purchase of health services outside the treatment queue, leads to the development of private specialist and hospital services centrally, which lose the districts of specialists, and the lack of patients to the hospital structure that we depend on to maintain. Effective neighbourhood hospitals, with niche functions, will be able to help the Swedish National Agency purchase health services, and perhaps develop other services that social security also needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e597	I consider that in this debate, particular attention has been given to two things, which, as far as I have understood, are reasonably broad consensus on in the Storting. One is that we have to do something in relation to the increasing number of ready-to-print patients, preferably older ones, that we'll see in the future. The second thing that this debate has made clear is what the Minister for Health himself said in his speech, namely that something needs to be centralised. I refer then to the dying specialist breed as a general surgeon, and that you cannot build an emergency response operation on medical fats of different quality and different kinds. There may simply also be problems in getting these stacks to go together. In this respect, it is particularly important, as the Minister of Health also stressed, that, in addition to some centralisation which will take place for professional reasons and according to medical technological developments, there will also be an increasing decentralisation of the specialist health service, so that the purpose and objective of the reform is fully met, namely that all in that country should receive a better health service irrespective of their place of residence. When it comes to the choice of names, I'm still very concerned that you don't pick the name district medical center, but at least you're thinking about keeping the name you have. Rather, one can draw this into the psychological context and call it a near-disease, or – a third possibility – one can maintain the name local hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e606	An important element of the debate has been the relationship between content and symbols of health policy. Let me immediately say that I agree with both the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo and the representative Ola D. Glötvold that it is the content that counts. Security for good and proper health care when you need it is not in the name of the building to which you are sent. The security is not in the building itself, nor is it in that the building is located right where it is. But security lies in what kind of services you get in that building, what kind of quality it is of services, and what kind of professionals you're able to recruit there. It is an important starting point when discussing the structure and division of tasks in hospitals. That being said, I would like to say that I share the assessments that the interpellant had when it comes to the question of what the child should be called. In addition, let me draw up one more perspective that I think is very important in this debate, and that among other things. The representative, Höie, was in the room. There are strong, centralizing forces in medicine, because specialization is a necessary consequence of that we can increasingly, but also that those who know more can do it in an ever narrower field. But there are also strong, decentralizing forces in medical development that can help people get services closer where they live. Dialysis patients are a good example. It is very stressful to have kidney failure conditions that require dialysis and that require long roads to the hospital, often three times a week. Getting such a service closer to where you live, so that you don't have to travel to the hospital for miles, is an example that medical developments allow for more decentralised specialist services. Then we're going to have a system that captures it, that's playing with these cancers in medicine. There was a main message in my post. Let me conclude by saying that I think we are now in a phase in which the interaction between specialist health services and primary health services is being put to an important test. We're like this in an interaction phase. We have carried out a major reform of primary health services and, in the case of care for the elderly, we are in the process of implementing a major reform of the specialist healthcare system, and I believe that a better integration of the first-line service and the second-line service is the next generation of health reforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e617	The interpellant debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e635	The aim of this interpellation is to keep one of the most important issues in our time on the agenda. The interpellation was raised before the Geneva Preparation Conference started, as indicated by the text referred to by the President. The conference is now in practice likely to take place, but the issue is equally topical. I am therefore pleased that the Foreign Minister will use this opportunity to put this threat to international peace and security in focus. Nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction have a dominant place in the international debate on peace and security. The threats and challenges dominate the debate, but the issues of how to control and reduce the amount of nuclear weapons and thus reduce the risk come to the fore. The danger of so-called robber states getting nuclear weapons is a threat that gets a lot of attention. Another threat that gets a lot of attention is that terrorist groups acquire nuclear weapons or other weapons of mass destruction. These challenges have in many ways replaced the focus we had on the Cold War arms race. I think there's a connection between the old and the new threats. The new threats have led more people to bring the nuclear weapons into the defense doctrines and thus open up the use of nuclear weapons – in principle at least. The threat today, therefore, is not just that new states or potential terrorist groups acquire nuclear weapons and perhaps use them. The threat is also that those who already have such weapons show a greater willingness to use their weapons in the fight against those who have acquired or are suspected of attempting to acquire nuclear weapons or other weapons of mass destruction. When the goal allocates the means, the danger gets bigger for all of us. Weapons of mass destruction have been central to the international pressure against Iraq. Weapons of mass destruction were also central to the war waged by the United States-led coalition against Saddam Hussein's regime. No matter what you think about the war, everyone should agree that this cannot become a common way of combating possible new nuclear states. The new situation in the Middle East should now be used to remove nuclear weapons from those countries that already have such weapons and to bring the nuclear programmes in other countries under international control and transparency. Of course, this is primarily about Israel and Iran. We really have no other way to go in this area than the contract path. The problem is that the agreements to prevent the proliferation and reduction of nuclear weapons, and that the practical measures to control weapons and weapons are inadequate. Three central countries have opted out of the agreements. This concerns India, Israel and Pakistan. North Korea is using the threat of new isolation as a means of pressuring international concessions. This is also meant to get nuclear weapons for most people. It's acquiring power and influence by threatening with nuclear weapons they have, or threatening to acquire such weapons. This is a dilemma as to how to deal with new or potential nuclear weapons states, whether to grant concessions and include or just isolate and threaten. I have little faith in the latter – unfortunately, one might say. The problem is not just those who do not join the agreement. The unwillingness towards the practical follow-up and implementation of the agreement is also a major problem. It is a particular dilemma that the United States, which on the one hand is the most powerful of those who defend freedom and democracy in the world, at the same time contributes to undermining the confidence and respect for international agreements and obligations in this field and in other areas. With regard to the agreement, it is also a major problem that the small tactical nuclear weapons are not covered by the agreements and are therefore outside of international surveillance and control. But the greatest immediate threat is probably in the huge amounts of fissile weapon material that are poorly secured and out of control. This can fall into the hands of states that hunt for their own nuclear weapons, or terrorist groups for the same purpose. We saw a variant of this on the news yesterday -- whether it was right or wrong, I don't know. At least then it was claimed that radioactive material had gone astray in Iraq. In this case, the threat was not in possible new nuclear weapons, but in that groups could make so-called dirty bombs, that is. disperse radioactive material which may damage and destroy. The non-proliferation agreement is a key in the work of a safer world. This agreement is one of the few instruments available to us to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Without this agreement, countries would be free to acquire nuclear weapons. The agreement does not currently have automatic sanctioning options, but is nevertheless a very important mechanism for the international follow-up of countries such as the United States. North Korea. The Agreement has mechanisms that should be able to capture and limit the nuclear ambitions of India, Pakistan and Israel, which are outside the Agreement. As the Non-Proliferation Agreement was extended indefinitely in 1995, the requirements for the supervisory process were reinforced by a set of ‘Principles and objectives for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament’. During the non-proliferation surveillance conference in 2000, the objectives were further specified by an action plan for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. The action plan includes, inter alia: requirements for the entry into force of the Test Stop Agreement, negotiations on a cease-fire agreement for the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons and reduction of tactical nuclear weapons. The continuation of the START process and the ABM agreement are also part of the action plan. The implementation of these rules of action is essential for the future of the Non-Proliferation Agreement. Norway needs to do everything possible to keep a specific focus on the nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation action plan. Norway must contribute to the ratification of the Non-Proliferation Agreement by all nuclear states. One-sided enforcement and in the loss of unilateral cessation of testing will contribute to greater confidence, but will not replace the international legally binding resulting from a ratification and entry into force of the agreement. The agreement between Russia and the United States on further reductions in strategic nuclear weapons needs to be ratified and reductions need to be able to be controlled. Tactical or non-strategic nuclear weapons must be subjected to formalized arms control. I refer to the fact that Norway has previously supported several studies of problems related to tactical nuclear weapons. We still have to focus on this. Effective disarmament and non-proliferation may take place only if new production of fissile weapon materials ceases. Norway should therefore work actively to reach an agreement on the cessation of production of fissile weapon materials. Fragile weapon materials must be placed under international control under the auspices of the IAEA. It could be a beginning if nuclear weapons countries are beginning to declare their own stockpiles of nuclear material. The agreement between the United States, Russia and the IAEA to bring material from dismantled nuclear weapons under permanent IAEA control must apply to all countries with nuclear weapon capabilities. At all events, it is particularly important to ensure transparency and control in order to ensure trust in the agreements. If I are to mention other initiatives that it is also important to follow up, it must be, among other things. Global initiative by the G8 countries to avoid proliferation of weapons and weapons. At the end of this list, I would like to mention in particular the so-called Test Stop Agreement – this is otherwise just one of the linguistic inconsistency in this area. Equally full is the entry into force of this Agreement one of the most important steps for real arms control and disarmament. Norway has contributed to important verification support and competences in this respect via NORSAR. I have mentioned some important measures that could further the work for disarmament and arms control, and others could have been mentioned. However, the last thing I mentioned about the Test stop agreement is important because it shows that Norway can also contribute in some areas. Norway should, of course, focus on measures where we can contribute to concrete results and focus on areas where we, together with others, can help to pass on the specific process. After all, that's all that matters, not the big declarations. In the light of what has been said here, I hope that the Foreign Minister will give a preliminary assessment of the Geneva Preparation Conference, and also comment on how the Government intends to continue to work to make concrete progress in the control and disarmament of nuclear weapons in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e677	Let me first start by thanking the representative Blankenborg for raising this gap. This is obviously a very central political issue, but which, as I think both the interpellant and I will be able to see, may have slipped a little out of the daily political debate. It's very unfortunate, taken into account how central this question is. That is why this interpellation is a contribution to bringing this back into the political debate. It is also the case, as the representative said, that the preparatory conference now under way is in its final phase. This is the second of three preparatory conferences to the 2005 Conference of Supervisors. That is why it is a very important evaluation work that will have to be done after this round of negotiations is over, just to look at how we attack the next round. In that way, this interpellation comes at the absolute right time. The Government attaches great importance to strengthening the work of nuclear disarmament, arms control and non-proliferation. We look at the Non-Proliferation Agreement as the cornerstone of this work. Norway has always been a strong supporter of the agreement and has played an active role in preserving and strengthening it. This is a line this government continues. The non-proliferation agreement was extended indefinitely in 1995. In our view, this decision meant that the nuclear weapons states confirmed their commitments towards full nuclear disarmament, while those countries that did not have nuclear weapons abandoned the possibility to acquire them. In retrospect, some countries have asked questions about the decision, which they believe could lead to nuclear weapons countries no longer having the same pressure to follow up the disarmament obligations contained in the agreement. We don't see it this way. We continue to emphasise the commitment of nuclear weapons countries to complete nuclear disarmament. In 1995, the requirements of the agreement’s supervisory process were reinforced by a set of ‘Principles and objectives for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament’. An action plan of 13 practical measures for the systematic implementation of nuclear disarmament and the main 1995 decisions was adopted at the 2000 Conference of Supervisors. It has been progressing since 2000. However, we are not satisfied with the progress in implementing the 13 measures. We have expressed this several times, for example. during the UN General Assembly on disarmament issues in New York last autumn. The main responsibility for the implementation of the measures lies primarily with nuclear weapons countries. However, it is important that non-nuclear weapons countries also contribute actively to the process. From the Norwegian side, we have made a number of concrete contributions to the implementation of the measures in the action plan. I would like to mention here the most important: There has long been an important foreign policy objective for Norway to put in place an agreement on nuclear testing cessation. Norway ratified the Test Site Agreement, which had been negotiated in 1996, at an early stage. We strongly support the agreement, both politically and practically. We are actively working for universal rapprochement to the agreement, with a view to its entry into force as soon as possible. Where it is natural, this is addressed in bilateral and multilateral contacts, both by the Prime Minister, myself and the civil service. Norway plays a leading role in preparing for the entry into force of the Test Stop Agreement, in particular in the efforts to put in place its important verification mechanisms. NORiser at Kjeller is doing an excellent job in this regard. NORSAR was established in 1999 as the Norwegian National Centre for the Verification of the Agreement. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs provides substantial financial and other support for the work. In some cases, there are administrative or other practical reasons for the lack of ratification of the agreement. In order to remedy this situation and prepare countries for the entry into force of the Agreement, Norway is assisting several countries. Because of the current American administration's attitude to the agreement, there is unfortunately little reason to believe that it will come into force with the first. Pending the entry into force of the Test Stop Agreement, it is important to continue the actual moratorium on nuclear testing. All nuclear weapons countries appear to be in a position to do this. However, I would like to stress that such self-imposed moratoriums cannot replace binding legal obligations which the conclusion of the agreement means. Norway has agreed to start negotiations at the disarmament conference in Geneva on a cease-fire agreement in the production of nuclear fissile material that can be used for weapons purposes. Such an agreement would be the next logical step for further progress in nuclear disarmament, and would be an important barrier to further nuclear testing in nations with nuclear ambitions. We have also stated that all nuclear weapons states should subject their fissile materials, which are no longer for military purposes, to the control of the International Atomic Energy Agency. [[IAEA]] I would also like to mention that we have agreed that the disarmament conference, in addition to an agreement on stopping the production of nuclear fissile material, should also address other substantive issues, such as: preventing arms race in the outer space. The Geneva Disarmament Conference is the main multilateral forum for disarmament and non-proliferation issues. Unfortunately, the situation at the conference has been locked down in recent years. Norway has supported several compromise proposals to resolve the situation. We have repeatedly underlined the need to agree on a work programme and move forward in this important process. We have also expressed concern that the situation undermines the credibility of the conference and the multilateral work in the disarmament and arms control field. Unfortunately, it does not seem realistic to expect real disarmament negotiations with the first. Norway supports further cuts in the tactical nuclear weapons, mainly in contractual form. On the American and British/French sides, significant reductions have been made in these weapons after the Cold War. We're not sure which cuts have been made on the Russian side. Together with our NATO allies, we have therefore proposed more transparency and confidence measures to Russia in this area. Unfortunately, no satisfactory response is yet available from the Russian side. I would also like to point out our cooperation with Russia under the nuclear action plan. This cooperation came first from an environmental point of view, but also has a clear non-proliferation side. It is important to prevent radioactive material from getting into the hands of irresponsible states and terrorists. Tomorrow, in Geneva, the preparatory meeting will conclude with a view to the 2005 Non-Proliferation Surveillance Conference. From the Norwegian side, we have presented a report on the Norwegian status of the implementation of the 13 measures in the action plan, following the lines I have outlined here. This was well received. We have called for all countries to report regularly on their actions in this field. We believe such reporting will strengthen the supervisory process. The period following the 2002 Conference of Supervisors, as mentioned above, has not been without points of light. We welcome the Moscow agreement between the United States and Russia in May 2002 on further reductions in strategic nuclear weapons. Together with the new close cooperation between the United States and Russia, this agreement contributes to continued strategic stability and increased security for all. Furthermore, the fall of the regime in Baghdad has now removed the considerable uncertainty associated with Iraq's stocks and capabilities in respect of weapons of mass destruction. But at the same time, the Non-Proliferation Agreement has come under pressure lately, primarily because of the events in North Korea. In December last year, the country expelled the inspectors from the IAEA and announced in January that they would withdraw from the Non-Proliferation Agreement. North Korea has also lifted its moratorium on missile testing and has already tested two short-range rockets. North Korea has again started a nuclear reactor, and the country itself claims to have nuclear weapons. We see this as a very worrying development. Firstly, this is a setback for the positive development of recent years in the Korean peninsula. Secondly, by setting aside its obligations towards the Non-Proliferation Agreement and the IAEA, North Korea can create a dangerous precedent for other countries that want to acquire weapons of mass destruction. Norway therefore supports all attempts to resolve the conflict peacefully and to restore North Korea’s commitment to the Non-Proliferation Agreement and the IAEA. We do not accept that the country is no longer bound by these. North Korea and Iraq are examples of a key challenge for the work of the agreement and the supervisory process being to identify compliance mechanisms. The work for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation is closely linked. Without verifiable progress in the non-proliferation field, nuclear disarmament work is becoming more difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e726	There was a dangerous coincidence between what the interpellant said, and what the Foreign Minister said, especially with regard to the opposition and the position being pronounced. On the other hand, it is also a strength that not only the objectives are identical, but also the means, as they are expressed by the Government and from the opposition on the side of the Storing, are largely the same. It gives an extra weight in an area that must be characterized as a puzzle, where the small features and the slightly boring craft are more important than the large declarations, because the nuclear weapons are so important to those who already have or intend to acquire such weapons, that any moral condemnation or strong resolutions do not make any impression on those who are involved. Then it says that the power and use of the power and use of the puzzle, and the puzzle becomes the seventh and last of all the most important. It is too early to comment specifically on what has happened in Geneva, but the impression is that very little is happening this year as well, as in the past, and thus that the focus is becoming more and more towards 2005. But this whole line goes beyond the need to focus on the use of agreements and to ensure respect for international agreements in this area as in other areas. I am not in a position where I can specifically say that the Government should behave differently in a specific meeting situation. It must be specifically assessed there and then in the light of the situation in the conference. And with that as a starting point, I'm going to be happy with the assessment and the line that the government here has taken on. I hope these questions are also focused on by the Government in the public debate in time to come. This is important not only to achieve concrete results, but also to show that there is concrete action in an area that is at least rooted in serious concern for many. Because in situations like those in Iraq, where we focus on terrorism and weapons of mass destruction, there is a need to show that there is also a concrete need to try to overcome this in practice. It is the practice that, at the end of the day, becomes more important than the declarations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e733	Let me just say that I agree with Haakon Blankenborg that it is of course too early to evaluate the second preparatory conference that is now taking place before it is concluded. In all such processes as this one is a preparatory conference, according to its wording, a preparation, i.e.: the real breakthroughs when one approaches the conferences themselves. Therefore, it is so important that the evaluation after this preparatory conference and up to the last of the preparatory conferences takes place on the basis that we know where we want to go and that we work based on what we have now learned. That approach chosen by the interpellant, namely that results are probably more important than declarations and resolutions, I think is a very important approach. And as I explained in my article, and as the interpellant also mentioned, we are doing some practical work on the Norwegian side that I think is of the utmost importance. We have some activities in addition to this, as I also mentioned. Not least, I believe that the work we are now doing in North-West Russia is very important at the practical level to prevent material from falling terrorists into the hands. The fact that Norway has focused on having good relations that enable us to get in touch with others is also crucial in order to be able to go beyond the resolution stage. Resolutions are the best and the easiest. It's getting results that are really complicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e740	I will first commend the interpellant for an excellent interpellation, and also join in what the representative Blankenburg said in his follow-up. After the end of the Cold War, weapons of mass destruction are included in both traditional and untraditional forms of the new threat picture, as we know. This was already made clear at the 1999 NATO Summit. Part of the new threat picture was, among other things, The threat of the use of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction, and at the Prague meeting last November, clear priorities were given for action against weapons of mass destruction, which is part of the defence policy of the various NATO countries. At the same time, nuclear weapons are particularly and still heavily concentrated in several countries and the security doctrines of alliances. I think I would say it as strongly as that uncontrolled proliferation of nuclear weapons and nuclear material today poses the greatest threat to humanity, to civilization and to the environment on our globe. I think we should be aware of that. However, we can also conclude that this threat today no longer stems from major activization – the cold war is over – in a two-part world. This threat is here in the form of a spread risk to countries with unpredictable regimes. This threat also exists in the form of nuclear weapons in countries with regional conflicts. This threat is also due to the fact that nuclear weapons competence is sold to the highest bidder by unremunerated researchers in parts of the post-Soviet area. The threat is, of course, nuclear waste, and nuclear competence in, for example. North-West Russia is a threat both to us and to our neighbourhoods. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that once the G8 countries have started work on weapons of mass destruction, Norway should be quite far ahead to get funds from this programme to clean up North-West Russia and make it an integral part of the G8 plan. Let me join the interpellant that the contract path is the way we have to keep going, and that we must never forget it. Some countries have opted out of the agreements, as was also said here, others are unfortunately unwilling to follow up and implement these agreements. I agree that the Non-Proliferation Agreement is a key in the work of a safer world and perhaps the most important instrument to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, including an agreement on cessation of production. Finally, concrete progress in the control and disarmament of nuclear weapons in view of a nuclear free world should also be a priority that we have foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e755	With the terrorist actions of 11 September 2001, the aim of preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction was at the top of the international agenda. The Iraq conflict was about preventing Iraq from developing weapons of mass destruction, the weapons Saddam Hussein by action proved that he had the will to take action. It was also an important objective to prevent Saddam Hussein from selling weapons or technology to terrorist groups, which, on 11 September 2001, showed its homeless and brutal eagerness to target civilian targets. We don't even dare think about what disaster 11 September could have been if Al Qaida had got nuclear weapons, which is their stated goal. Therefore, in the fight against international terrorism, strengthening international agreements for non-proliferation, arms control and disarmament is becoming a key issue, and it is therefore important to follow up the work on the 13 nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament objectives agreed at the non-proliferation supervisory conference in 2000. The central pillar of the Non-Proliferation Agreement is the nuclear weapons’ commitment to disarmament and the elimination of their nuclear weapons in return for the failure of the other parties to seek nuclear weapons. However, there must be no contradiction between following an active multilateral track and strengthening our cooperation with allies and individual countries – rather across the board. Now, there are probably more opportunities at present to invest resources in the work of individuals and in organisations other than those in the global disarmament processes. Our commitment to NATO is, as the previous speaker was about, of great importance. The NATO Summit in Washington in April 1999 decided that the Alliance should review its efforts for non-proliferation, arms control and disarmament with a view to strengthening this work. The NATO-Russia Council was set up at the Rome Summit last May, and Norway was among the earliest and most committed to making the Council an important cooperation body, where the fight against international terrorism and just non-proliferation should be a key task. The Co-operation Board is also working to address nuclear safety issues as an important element of non-proliferation. Furthermore, I would just like to end by highlighting the important initiative of the G8 countries: Global Partnership against Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction. When they are to be re-established in June of this year, it is hoped that non-proliferation work will be highest on the agenda. Norway also needs to show that we have a role to play in helping to develop a multi-national strategy to prevent weapons of mass destruction from getting into the wrong hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e770	The Progress Party sees that the information revolution is changing the framework conditions for war and conflict. In future conflicts it must be assumed that attacks on civil and military information systems will be a central element. Technological developments have made advanced technologies more accessible to politically unstable countries and to national and international groupings that may wish to use violence or threats to achieve their aims. The cost of using modern technology offensively is often relatively low compared to what it costs to defend itself effectively against or deter such use. While the danger of electronic terror is increasing, we must also focus on the danger of developing and spreading nuclear, biological and chemical weapons – the so-called weapons of mass destruction – and their means of delivery. The knowledge required for the production of biological and chemical weapons is relatively easily available and several countries aim to acquire such weapons and their means of delivery. The Party welcomes the establishment of a number of multilateral arms control regimes to prevent the use, spread and production of weapons of mass destruction. Unfortunately, it has proved difficult to establish effective control and monitoring mechanisms that can help ensure compliance with the agreements. Unfortunately, several countries have failed to join existing contract works. Norway is now a member of all five multilateral export control regimes and also implements all relevant UN and OSCE decisions. In the case of UN decisions, Norway complies with all arms embargo decisions irrespective of whether they are binding or non-binding. The Progress Party expects and assumes that this is a policy that the Government intends to pursue. The Progress Party welcomes the active efforts by the Norwegian side to promote greater transparency and transparency in international arms trade and a stronger attitude to the export of small arms. Multilateral export control has become an important tool in the last few years to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the building of conventional military capacity that could threaten stability and security in an area. Since 11 September, international cooperation on export control and non-proliferation has taken a new turn. A number of initiatives have been taken to strengthen cooperation in the multilateral regimes. This is pleased with the Progress Party, and we expect the Government to follow up on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e783	This interpellation is a very affordable initiative and at most timely in a situation where international disarmament work is at risk. A review of the main points of the action plan for non-proliferation adopted in 2000 shows that there is not only a lack of progress in non-proliferation work but that it is now moving in the wrong direction. Majority policy and lack of follow-up are undermining the entire Non-Proliferation Agreement, which has played an important role to date in limiting the number of countries with nuclear weapons. It's very alarming when states like North Korea acquire nuclear weapons. However, it should not be accepted that nuclear weapons States are not willing to follow the Non-Proliferation Agreement. The 2000 Supervisory Conference took many steps forward in non-proliferation work. It is urgent to change today’s developments if the next supervisory conference in 2005 is not to mark a complete failure in its follow-up. In the 2000 action plan, nuclear weapons countries recognise their commitment to disarmament and the abolition of their own nuclear weapons. That this is long-term goal is one thing, but one must at least make demands on the powers that they begin to go in this direction. Instead, the United States has launched strategies to revitalise the military role of nuclear weapons and has called for nuclear weapons to be suitable for defence against biological and chemical weapons. Russia has also confirmed the role of nuclear weapons, and the U.S. missile defense plans have led China to consider upgrading its arsenals. The probation agreement has still not been ratified by the United States and China. India, Pakistan, North Korea and Israel are also among those countries that have not ratified. The ABM agreement has been terminated. The United States and NATO missile defence plans have already had serious political consequences, not only through the termination of the ABM agreement, but also through China's fear that their limited nuclear strength will not be sufficient to penetrate a future US defence, and the possibility of continued upgrading is kept open so that they can maintain their nuclear deterrence in relation to the United States. The missile defence plans have also stopped an agreement on stopping in the production of fissile weapon materials. Failure to have a test stop contract or a stop contract in the production of fissile material will have a direct impact on the Non-proliferation Agreement. I am pleased that there is full agreement that Norway should be a driver of disarmament and non-proliferation. But this has to be something more than a phrase. There's a broad consensus here that there's the results that count. I fully agree with that, and that is what we have to work for. Resources need to be put into this work, and Norway needs to state clearly in all contexts where this may be relevant. It was striking that Norway could not support a resolution on disarmament and non-proliferation from among others. Sweden and the so-called New Agenda Coalition countries of the UN last autumn. I guess it was because the criticism of the United States was too sharp. However, as the only NATO country, Canada supported this resolution. If we are to be drivers, we must also be able to talk more clearly. A driving role also presupposes that Norway pursues a consistent policy on disarmament and does not support the US and NATO missile defence plans. To conclude, it may seem that the American attitude now is that nuclear weapons themselves are not a problem, but only who owns them. This must not be the position of Norway. For SV, it is important to establish that the existence of nuclear weapons is a problem in itself, and that non-proliferation work will not succeed if one does not achieve a general disarmament of nuclear weapons and reduces the role of nuclear weapons in international policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e806	There are some idealistic grandmothers outside of Stortinget who regularly distribute material to us, and who are busy with disarmament. Yesterday they were there, and then they took a word for the day from the poet Karen Blixen, who says: ‘A civilization that does not allow humans to live without fear is not a real civilization.’ It's a little bit of an ambitious goal, but at the same time it describes something phenomenal. And I thought it was good – like the others – that the interpellant reminds us that this is something that we should not forget in the middle of the other international issues that have been in the past. The foreign minister's answer shows that there is a broad agreement here. The fight against terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction has been a frightening central task for all members of the international community. More than ever, we need to strengthen global standards for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament. 11 September and the subsequent changes in the international security environment show the importance of this work. The non-proliferation agreement is still the cornerstone and the foundation of non-proliferation and disarmament of existing nuclear weapons. Most countries in the world today support the agreement. Only India, Pakistan and Israel are outside. A concrete action plan on non-proliferation and disarmament was agreed at the 2000 Supervisory Conference. It was an important and positive progress, because it was now easier to measure the efforts of states and their results in non-proliferation work. Since then there have been some positive developments. It's a pleasure that Cuba has decided to join the agreement. But at the same time, there are many other negative things happening there. The US and Russia's arms control agreement in 2002 was a step in the right direction. Last year, G8 countries were also hit by a force to secure weapons and weapons of mass destruction, a major focus on nuclear waste and nuclear installations in Russia. The action plan requires the termination agreement to apply soon, but China and the United States have not ratified it. The Christian People's Party believes it's totally unacceptable. Here, Norway has been clear in its criticism. Norway must continue to criticise and be a driver for signing and ratifying the agreement. The fact that the termination agreement applies and is being complied with is a very central contribution to stopping the proliferation of nuclear weapons. As the interpellant said, there is no other dangerous road than the contractual road. With small steps we have to try to walk that road!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e822	When the representative Lilletun changes between hailing the Government and highlighting the views of the Christian People's Party, I naturally listen with particular interest, but in this case there was consistency! The problem in this context is not the countries that do not have and do not intend to acquire nuclear weapons. The problem is those who have nuclear weapons or nuclear weapons, but who don't have control of them. There are many other problems, but this is a main problem. As underlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, work on confidence-building measures is important in order to achieve practical results. But there is also a dilemma here: one can achieve concrete results when it comes to arms control and disarmament in relation to a good part of these regimes, but it will also mean that one must work for trusting relations with regimes to which a normally would not distribute honorary prizes because of democracy and human rights. This is a delicate balance, but as I believe it is necessary to see it, that the best thing is not to become the enemy of the good in such a context. In other contexts, we can come back to concrete examples of which countries this might be. I'm not going to go into this right now. When it comes to what Norway can do, it is clear that those countries that do not have nuclear weapons — and that is not the major powers in general — must use the power that lies there politically and economically. Also, countries with a poor economy, but with a relatively large aid budget, for example, can be impressive for us, but for those who accept it, a large amount of cash from a country with a good economy and a small relative assistance will often be more impressive. We're also going to have this with us, because this is also about money and economic power. When we're going to seek our allies, it's quick to overestimate our power. I'm not saying we don't have any power, but it's quick to overestimate it. In relation to this debate, I have only two comments in addition to this. The one is for Jon Lilletun, who reminds us of idealistane. They also have their role in this. But then we've been given different work tools depending on where we are. Here and in the government offices, the most important are the practical, efficient measures. We have been given other work tools and other requirements than those that have not received this, but can be drivers for keeping this case warm. At the end of the day, a comment on the progress party's tribute to the multilateral agreements osb. I just hope that this belief in multilateral agreements will apply in any case, and that one not in any other context will hail unilateral action or unilateralism without criticism from some major powers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e843	I guess it's not that much to add after the interpellant summary. I just want to comment on two things in more detail. One thing that several of the speakers have been talking about is the work we are now doing in North-West Russia. I want to underline that, because this is a practically important work that will bring control over material that can be used for so-called dirty bombs, and which is a significant problem, a significant safety risk. In that context, we have started cooperation in many places, and there was just a very successful seminar in Washington in which we expressed alliances to the US Congress, which is very concerned about this issue. I think that's an important priority. I hope and believe that the appropriations we have for Russia can focus on these kinds of issues, because there are many important objectives that we achieve at the same time. The second thing I just want to comment on is that I think it is important the message that this interpellation has sent, namely that it is a result-oriented policy that is expected from the Norwegian side, not a declaration-oriented, but a practical-orientated/result-oriented policy that is expected. It has been said by all parties, including SV – to my great joy, even though when I heard the post, it seemed that the representative Bjørklund forgot it at the moment he had said it. Part of the Norwegian vote around is precisely dictated from the point of view that it is not the resolutions that are crucial, but it is that it is easy to keep in touch, push on the processes, know which way to go, which is ultimately crucial. So it's not all the declarations that are equally useful. I just want to remind you.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e852	That is when the debate on case No. Five done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e858	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e929	The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 1 from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to examine the scope of Norwegian industrial enterprises which are not able to benefit from the reimbursement scheme because the HFC/PFC gases diffuse in their production processes, and to conclude phase-out agreements with them to ensure that Norwegian industrial workplaces can be maintained in this sector and that production processes can be made more environmentally friendly over a period of time.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e948	In Case No: 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08.ana.ud2100e959	There is no record.
