ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e28	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Odelstingen meeting in the evening – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e33	I would like to make suggestions on Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e38	Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are unanimously elected presidents of Odelstinget’s meeting tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e52	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups. Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e63	One can certainly say that it is a little historical nonsense that in 2003, the Stortinget deals with this law, which means equality in government corporations, state corporations, public limited liability companies, etc., since this year it is 90 years since women were given voting rights! There is a lot that has happened in 90 years, and if the developments in these 90 years have not just gone smoothly and thoughtfully, the vision and the goal have been firm: equality between women and men. Norway has often been in the leadership in this area, and I have to name Gro Harlem Brundtland's first 'female rule' as one of the really big breakthroughs for equality in Norwegian politics. This is an international dimension, and for the governments that follow it, it is obvious that the perspective of equality has its own features. The first Bondevik government, in a hearing note in 1999, proposed changes to equality laws, and in the summer of 2001 the government sent out a hearing letter with draft legislative provisions on gender representation in company law. It also weighed – I might say mildly – observation here in the country when the Minister of Economic Affairs of the Right, Gabrielsen, with his clear and concise statement, almost demanded equality and threatened with legal change if not. Minister of Gender Affairs Davøy followed up with a letter of 7 March 2002 forwarding the Government’s goal of 40 p.m. women of the government, and stated that the government was set up to regulate this, if necessary. The size of the population deals with changes in equality laws in Ot.prp. No 6 for 2001-2002 on 18 April 2002. A large minority, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, asked the government to come back with proposals for changes of promise to secure 40 pst. of both sexes in the board of all state limited liability companies and state enterprises as well as publicly owned special law companies. The background of this review is to show that there is a wide and large multiple behind the setting that we are about to treat today. All parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, support the amendment of the law. I believe – with reasonable certainty – that the Progress Party itself will do well for its vision. The majority agree that an average share of the permanent agencies in Norwegian private public limited-liability companies is only 7.3 pst. women are too low and unlucky. To promote a social development that supports and benefits both women’s and men’s competences, action must be taken. It is often incomprehensible that women are not assessed to the same degree as men when appointing board members. From opponents of the law change, it is often argued that we should have the one that is the best and the most competent. But I dare say that unfortunately it is often only in 50 pst. of the population that is being searched for the most qualified. This may have to do with culture – with knowledge and networking – and then, in my opinion, it is too easy to say that those who are most qualified are in the male population. The majority believe that gender representation rules will lead to a better use of women with a business-related competence, which in turn will strengthen business leadership. This, in turn, will increase the impact and potential of women in business. The majority's goal and vision of increasing equality and democracy will thus move even one step in the right direction! I want to clarify that the goal of 40 pst. gender representation is not a percentage requirement, but a requirement for concrete numbers relative to the size of the control. The amendment also requires gender representation to be calculated separately for elected and elected representatives. Equality laws must be clarified so that gender representation applies when a municipality, county or state appoints members to foundations. The majority acknowledge that the goal of 40 pst. sex representation has been obtained in the case of state-owned companies. But since it is important to make the important principle of gender representation visible, it is the view of the majority that this should nevertheless be legally binding, in line with the proposition that has been made. As I said in the introduction, there is a big deal about the changes in the law. The Socialist Left Party has divergent views among others. in the case of a board of directors of private limited liability companies. The use of assets in the Committee shall be subject to the implementation of the rules of private limited-liability companies. The Workers' Party and SV's proposal will implement the laws from 1 January 2004, with a transitional period of two years. Right, Christian People's Party and the Center Party have stressed that the best solution is if one achieves a voluntary result. If the desired gender representation is achieved by 1 July 2005, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party do not see the need to introduce legal rules. One expects the department to follow developments closely, and the relevant information will be forwarded to Stortinget. If the desired effect is not achieved by 1 July 2005, it is foreseen that the rules will be implemented as soon as possible after 1 September 2005. My call to the companies that it is for them to meet this challenge and to meet the Storting's intention. Many people could have said about the gender equality path further, but I should be careful to point out that according to the Evening Post on 13 November 2003, 14 councillors broke the equality law. It is the requirement to do good for equality in the annual accounts. I found it discouraging, and I urge the Minister for Gender Equality to follow this closely. I also thought it would be reasonable if the Stortinget were informed, for example. through the annual budget proposals, on the situation in the various departments. The central party sees it as particularly positive that this change in law is coming. It will be both exciting and interesting to follow developments further. I believe our next major challenge before gender equality policy is to look at it researcher Øystein Gullvåg Holter according to Newspaper 29 September 2003 pointed to: ‘It is the pattern of work of men who are probably the main obstacle to gender equality in Norway today.’ Because it is a cross of thought – in terms of wages and pensions – that so many women work part-time, while men according to this researcher work too much. Finally, I would like to recommend the option. In the setting on page 12, a suggestion number is included. 1, from Right, Christian People's Party and the Center Party. That's the same thing as XII. That is why I am not taking up that proposal, because it is in front of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e106	It is listed and will be taken into account in the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e109	It sounds like a story from the Stone Age, but when the Workers' Party introduced sex quota – it's actually no longer since – we were called red stockings and what was worse. As a matter of fact, there are some batches that set up sexual quota against skill. But we who have lived for a while have actually discovered that there are awfully many capable women. We must have the pleasure of joining the business community and in governments, councils and selections. The working party is very happy that we now have this matter for consideration. We believe it is important that the problem around that there are too few women in corporate governance is taken seriously. The working party wishes to introduce rules on gender representation of at least 40 pst. of each sex for public limited-liability companies and public limited-liability companies. We want it to come into force from 1 January 2004. We believe this because it's just approx. 7-8 pst. women in the boards of privately owned public limited-liability companies. We believe, unlike the government parties, that it is not possible to achieve the goal of 40 pst. voluntary representation of each sex in the boards by 1 July 2005, which will mean that the rules will have to be introduced from September 2005. In reality, the Government proposal helps to delay the introduction of these rules by two years. We in the Workers' Party disagree with this selection. Unfortunately, we have little faith that this is going to take care of itself. That is why we choose to be realistic, and that is why we are in favour of applying the quota from New Year, with a transitional period of two years. I would like to stress that both women and men can equally fill the board of directors, and that women's education and competence do not stand back for men. In the hearings we have had prior to the treatment in Stortinget, no information has been found that it will be difficult to find suitable women for executives. This is an important matter, which I personally and the Workers' Party hope will be adopted tonight. I am referring to the proposal from the Labour Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e124	The representative Eirin Fallet has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e127	I would like to begin by thanking the case rapporteur for a thorough work and for a neat and good presentation of the matter. I do not need to repeat the matter. It has been exemplified by the case-speaker. I am only pleased to note that it is a majority of the Government's proposals. As the rapporteur went on to say, 90 years have passed since women were given the right to vote. Amazingly, a lot has happened in the gender equality field in 90 years. Many seem to live in the belief that we have an equal society in 2003, where women and men have the same rights and opportunities. Over the last few weeks, I have read some of the debates in Stortinget from 1900 to 1913 about women's voting rights. The following was said in the debate – whether you believe it or not – by the Right-Representative Malm: ‘Giveing women the right to vote and to stand for election and re-establishing this system in practice according to its consequences would simply be to commit national suicide.’ But to correct this impression, I will mention at the same time that the first woman on the Stortinget, Anna Rogstad, was from the Right. The other woman was also from the Right. The country has definitely not gone down. The families exist, and women's speech stream has not forced the men of the Stortinget. It was this opponent of the women's vote that was supposed to happen. So we've had the right to vote for 90 years, but the question is, are we equal? There are many factors that indicate that there is a long way to go before women have the same power and influence as men. In politics, women make up 36 pst. by the representatives here on Stortinget, 42 p.m. of the Government and 34 pst. of local government. This development has not gone by itself. A central element of gender equality work has been — and is — legislation. We got our first equality law in 1978, after a bit of a heated debate. Equality and influence are not anything that women have been given free of charge. There's something they've been fighting for for for generations, and there's still a lot left. Only 14 pst. by the rapporteurs in the municipalities, are women. They own 84 pst. of the positions of power in Norwegian society, and in the boardrooms men dominate in total, for the time being. The low proportion of women in the boards of Norwegian companies is unfortunate, and it is therefore necessary to take action to promote a social development that recognises and implements the competences of both women and men. Now there has been no problem with the representation of men in positions of power, to put it mildly. What is clear is that the level of education and competence of women is at least at the level of men. There will be waste of resources not to exploit women's competences. There are still too few women in executive positions in the business world. I am convinced that gender representation rules will help to make women’s competence – in terms of leadership and business skills – visible and better exploited. Governments are important, but it may be even more important that women's competences are put into practice in the day-to-day management of companies. In this context, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate Minister Gabrielsen, if he now listens to the Od@ Prize for his efforts to promote women's positions in the government and in the management of the IT industry. I don't remember any former Minister of Industry getting such recognition. Since he is also the Right-State Council, of course I am very satisfied. The invitation to the Minister of Industry now is that he should not rest on his laurels, but that he continues to strengthen his commitment to promoting women's positions, including in other areas of business. If he does, there could be more prizes! In Norway, the proportion of women in political positions is high. Women have a high level of education and a high level of professional participation, and we have well-developed welfare systems. Despite this, we do not have full equality between women and men. The objective of gender equality in policy is not far from being achieved. In other areas, however, there are considerable differences. Both in the labour market and at home, traditional gender roles continue to exist. Women have the main responsibility, both for the paid and unpaid care work. In the higher power positions in the business world, men dominate in total. This means that the equality and influence that are possible in politics and in our democratic sphere is limited by the fact that men dominate in the economic sphere, an area that is very important. That is why the legislative proposal presented by the Government, which we are about to adopt today, is an important step towards equality between women and men. I am very pleased that we have a government, and statesmen, who take equality seriously. It is an important objective of the Government to increase women’s participation in decision-making bodies and management in business. Large enterprises have a key role to play in the economy, society and well-being. It is therefore an important democratic principle that both women and men are represented where important decisions are taken. I am convinced that a better and smoother gender balance will contribute to increased value creation, because half of those who are going to use the services and buy the goods are actually women. In a modern and equal society, both sexes should have equal opportunities to contribute both knowledge and competence and to receive an equivalent share of the benefits. Therefore, both men’s and women’s resources must be used in the governing bodies, not only in politics – not only in public administration but also in private business. The representation of both sexes will contribute to a broader set of experiences and thus to a broader and better decision-making base in governance. In addition, increased diversity will make governance – and activities – more strategic and creative and ensure good quality of the decisions made by the board. Some projects have shown that enterprises with women in government have better earnings than other enterprises. One possible reason is that these enterprises have a different culture in a positive sense. These are companies looking for the best employees. They choose from among the competent people – not just half of them – and they are capable of seeing the resources of both women and men. I think it's useful with a conscious and targeted job, even when it comes to increasing the proportion of female leaders. There is a major imbalance between the competences of women and the participation of women in decision-making bodies as well as in decision-making positions. The low proportion of women must mean that business does not benefit from valuable skills. The road to success, to success as a business, lies in diversity. The enterprise and the job consisting of only one sex creates ‘enfold’. What we need in working life is diversity – we need both women and men at all workplaces. It is a quality assurance when both sexes contribute their experiences, with their perspective and competence. In a small country like Norway, we cannot afford to be as equal. Neither do they in the business world. There are important decisions in the board of directors, and a board of directors provides the basis for power and influence. The low proportion of women in both governance and management shows that women and men do not have the same development opportunities and career opportunities in their working life. That is why the law we are about to deal with today is important. I am pleased that it is the majority of the Government's proposals. Legislation cannot, of course, be the only measure. Work must be done to change attitudes in enterprises and in governments they must change their culture. Yes, at all events, efforts must be made to change conditions that hinder women's access to the boardrooms. There is already a lot of good work done here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e168	It is sad to see that the majority of the population have doubts about an equality policy based on having a ‘fight’ between two poles. You seem to be locked up in the equality fight from the 1970s and early 1980s. The Progress Party considers it pointless that the public should use large resources and an increasingly comprehensive and detailed law to protect the rights of healthy, adults, intelligent, well-trained people. We think this is a direct evaluation of the individual human being. We in the Progress Party have full confidence in man's own ability to do this, trust that women and men know their needs and rights and trust that they themselves can care for them. All other thinking is, in the view of the Progress Party, a violation of the individual's integrity and ability to make his own decisions. We in the Progress Party are strong supporters of equality, but believe that this should come as a result of natural developments, not as a result of bureaucratic detailed rules and decisions in this Chamber. That is why we have also proposed several times in this room the winding-up of State appropriations for gender equality research and the centres of competence for gender equality, we have proposed the closure of the Equality Ombudsman, etc. We have proposed the liberalisation of the equality law and that other bodies, including the courts and the Labour Inspectorate, can enforce the key provisions of the law. We believe that, although cuts are made in appropriations and removal of representations, the rights of individuals can still be maintained by a ‘smart’ legislation in the Equality Act, the Working Environment Act and agreements concluded between the employee and employee organisations. In addition, there are a number of non-governmental organisations and political parties which have equality as a central brand, which are active in this field and which act as a watchbow in the field of equality. The Progress Party believes that Ot.prp. No 97 shows that there are considerable forces in Norwegian society that want to continue yesterday's gender equality policy. You have a fundamentalist belief in gender quotas. The Progress Party believes that it is obvious that an individual who has been given a job or position because of his gender and not because of his qualifications is downgraded by society. Gender quotas are therefore, by their very nature, very discriminatory. It must be offensive for a woman to know that when she's going to have a place in a government, it's the sex it depends the most on and not on competence and suitability. It may seem that the majority of the population believe that women are unable to obtain control positions on their own, but must have the help of legal regulation. In our view, this is a downgrading of all women. Ot. pp. No 97 is a step in the wrong direction. Rather, it is appropriate to ensure that all businesses, both public and private, are given viable conditions for value creation, and to let them do more paperwork to satisfy bureaucratic rules. It could be tempting to go into a discussion with the chairman of the committee, representing the Right. I would have thought that it was not through quota rules and further bureaucratic paper mill Right wanted business to be governed. But I have obviously been wrong about the Right. I could also imagine adding that the desire to get women into leadership positions in companies is something that will solve itself if we take the time to help. When I took education in economics and management in the last half of the 1980s, I believe to remember that the proportion of women in these studies was between 20 and 30 p.m. Per. this has changed significantly today. If we look at the higher studies, which are the recruitment base for those who will lead Norwegian business and Norwegian social life in the future, the proportion of women has actually become dominant. Over 55 pst. by students at universities and more than 65 pst. at colleges are women. These are the leaders of tomorrow. So the problem will solve itself without a quota rule if we take the time to help. Otherwise, I have taken a small gallup among my friends and acquaintances. Interestingly, there were no male business managers among them, but there were three women. I studied a little bit how they had gotten to the places and the positions they had, as capable and good managers of medium-sized and larger businesses. None of them were quotad. They had come there through education, through their qualities and through hard work. Then they were actually also respected by their employees, whether they were women or men. Finally, I would like the vote to be put to the vote so that the Progress Party can vote against the vote and against the proposals made by the other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e198	The President shall take that into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e201	It's tempting to start with a reaction to the post here from the Progress Party. I won't say very much, but I'll say one thing. More women than men today take higher education. In other words, we have a proportion of women in Norway who are highly educated. So it's going to be pretty special that it's only 7.3 pst. of those who sit in the rulers of the country. It is then asked, if you should follow the reasoning of the Progress Party, if there are men who are underqualified to sit there. We have this year celebrated that women have had 90 years of voting rights. There was a great celebration here in Stortinget, and there was a great party performance in the City Hall in Oslo. 2003 is thus a historic year for women, and the proposal under consideration here today is also an important new step in the right direction, which means a great deal to equality and women. The Socialist Left is pleased that this bill is now being promoted, although we are proposing to go beyond this proposal. As the Labour Party, we also want it to be implemented from 1 January 2004. This is a completely necessary bill to get women into the boardrooms. Unfortunately, there has been no desired development with an increase in the proportion of women at the rate we hoped when we dealt with the new equality law. Norwegian business needs women as directors. We need innovation and creativity in Norwegian business, and I think women's skills need to be used more than today. Women are now in a position of competence and have a level of education needed by the business community in Norway. SV proposes that the amendment should also apply to directors of privately owned limited liability companies with more than 30 employees. I have no idea that these companies should not have the same rules. Nor does SV agree with the Government that there should be other rules for the representation of gender of directors and alternates elected from among the employees than for other elected members of the board of directors. The percentage of each of the sexes made up of the total number of employees should have nothing to do with the composition of the board. What's important about this bill change is that both sexes should be represented as described in the bill change. SV promotes proposal No. 4, that the law changes in line with this. So the Socialist Left believes that the law will apply from 1 January 2004. There is now a share of women in the board of directors of 7.3 p.m., and there is no reality in the hope of achieving a goal of 40 p.m. voluntary. There is no reason to wait until 1 July 2005 for a transitional period of two years to introduce this amendment. As I said, we have not seen a desired development, and we disagree with the department's assessment that there should be an additional deadline for volunteering. Together with the Workers' Party, we propose that the Act be implemented from 1 January 2004 with a transitional period of two years. As I have said, volunteering has proved not to strike, and there is no reason to believe that volunteering will work in the future. I think it is sad that the committee could not join the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV. It is, as I have said, a proposal that provides a transition period of two years. That means we're on target in 2006. SV is pleased with this step – an important step – towards a more equal governance and a more equal society. It's a long way to go, but as I said, this is a step in the right direction. I am delighted to follow developments in the future. And finally, a slogan: A more equal Norway is a better Norway for everyone! I refer to the SV's proposal, and we support the vote subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e224	The representative of May Hansen has taken up the suggestions she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e228	The Committee has examined gender representation rules in all the boards of publicly owned companies and privately owned public limited-liability companies. The Christian People's Party believes that we have reached a forward-looking and good conclusion. My claim is: Men have been allocated to management and govern long enough. Now is the turn of capable women! Gender quotaing may mean that medium-sized men are replaced by well-qualified women. Although the instruments we are adopting today are undesirable, my claim is that both men and women have been patient enough for a long time. Society needs men and women at all levels. Only then will we have an optimal equal society. We can't afford to rule out half of the population in the arenas where the decisions are made. It's not that unqualified women now have to enter into jobs they don't really fill. The thing is, men have been auctioned for too long, but the allowance has not been open. We are now adopting the transparency and predictability of quotas, and this naturally creates debate. I would also like to remind you that last year we adopted changes to the Equality Act, where we committed ourselves to working for equality at all levels of society and strengthening the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sex. The Equality Act is both a non-discrimination law and a law designed to facilitate gender equality. I've been thinking for a long time that we need to focus more on the last aspect. What we are adopting today points in that direction. It is also Christian People's Party very pleased with. Some strong business voices have argued strongly that there are better ways of getting women into management and governance than quotas. Then it is natural to ask: why have you not already used these other instruments to a greater extent? For the situation in the labour market, it is discouraging after so many years of equal opportunities. This bill is a result of long-term work. Since the spring of 2002, the government has been working to improve the gender representation of corporate governance. The average proportion of women among permanent employers in Norwegian privately owned public limited-liability companies is only 7.3 pst. In state-wide establishments, the target is 40 pst. has been reached. Here the female share is now at 45.7 pst. Does it really matter if women are more involved in corporate governance? The same kind of questions were also asked when women were in their time being allocated to politics and government. In my opinion, this is not about sex, it's just as much about securing the breadth of the recruitment. If you call for a greater range of management experience and control in general, there will naturally be room for more women. The issue we are dealing with today, in other words, goes into the range of measures to ensure a better balance in terms of background at all levels of society. This is also about important democratic principles for our society. The Christian People's Party believes that an increased proportion of women in government will lead to a strengthening of management in industry and the competitiveness of businesses. We want business to get a bigger register to make the best decisions both for society and the company. Let it be clear: the Christian People's Party will have greater diversity in the governance of Norwegian companies. We want at least 40 pst. by both sexes on the boards of the enterprises. Business and social organisations are invited to a cooperation agreement with a view to stepping up women’s representation in the governments of the private limited-liability companies. This is related to the Government’s decision that the legal rules for these companies should not enter into force on a voluntary basis on the objective of gender representation. The business community now has a two-year term to put women in place in the government. This is the case with privately owned public limited-liability companies. No gender representation rules are proposed for private limited liability companies. The reason for this is that most limited liability companies in Norway are small family businesses where the owners are natural persons who are themselves personally on the board. For such enterprises, gender representation legislation may not be an appropriate instrument. In contrast, in public limited-liability companies, there is usually a greater spread of the shares and a less personal impact on the management of the company. There has been a lot of attention on women’s representation in recent years. And, as I said earlier, it's important for more women in corporate governance. But let's not forget that it's at least as important that the Equality Act is followed up so that you work purposefully to get more women in charge as well. Here we still have a long way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e260	The government is committed to facilitating increased value creation in business, and in this respect diversity in governance is important. Numbers from the Brønnøsund registers have shown us that the share of women in government is much lower than the proportion of women in business in general. There are signs of poor use of resources and competences. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee sees this problem and the need to take action. Legislative regulation of the composition of the board may appear to be a powerful instrument, which is also the case. However, it has its reasons for the fact that work in relation to the ambitions of industry, which has stood firm, has gone at snail speed. The industry said in 1995: give us ten years, and we'll sort this out. But the government, on March 7, 2002, decided to help the business community, and we were also prepared to regulate if necessary. Since then, this has been on the agenda, and we have definitely seen progress. I want to say that this debate and the position we have today to deal with is a worthwhile point for that process in that way. In parallel with the preparation of this legislative proposal under consideration today, we have worked in cooperation with business and employee organisations on other measures that, hopefully, will render the law unnecessary. We are now organising half-yearly meetings with organisations where the status of board composition is presented and new actions and new ideas are discussed. An example is the NHO's Female Future project, which allows member companies to nominate their own female candidates for a national network through a voluntary agreement with the NHO, where companies can also search for female candidates for their own governance. In fact, among the members of the NHO, which are public limited liability companies, the share of women in the boards increased from 6.3 p.m. to 14,5 pst. from June 2002 to 2003. This shows that the work is useful, and I still have the hope of reaching the goal of a 40-pst female share. by 2005 at the latest. The state has also set a good example, and in the state companies, as has been said in the past, we have already reached the requirements for gender representation. I have noticed that the members of the Committee from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left believe that the rules should be put into effect from 1 January 2004, because the objective of voluntary achievement through alternative measures will not be achieved. I can live with such a small slice of joy. On 7 March 2002, the Government gave business the opportunity to demonstrate by 2005 that regulatory regulation was an unnecessary tool for achieving greater diversity in the boards of public limited-liability companies. It would, in my opinion, be unfortunate and not predictable to take from them that opportunity. My commitment to this matter is based primarily on what I would call the importance of diversity in governance in general, and, as I tend to say, including the women's perspective. There are many perspectives in the composition of governance that have not been sufficiently addressed. At my discretion, it is that competence, education, age, background of experience, geography, is of importance to the overall competence of a government. My starting point is that large social resources were not used by the fact that the share of women in government was only 6-7 pst. I think it's quite important to stress what the committee's chairman said about working with attitudes in this context is important. In fact, I think that will also have meaning – I know it will definitely have – for those companies that are not covered by the law, namely the public limited liability companies. I feel quite certain that no woman should have to get a hold of the idea that the representative Knudsen was having, that it is, as it were, discriminatory, degrading and offensive. I'm pretty sure the newly elected chairman of Statoil, who is a man, doesn't feel that way when, as everyone knows, the state itself has an ambition of 40 pst. and must therefore take this into account. Now it is not allowed to say that such statements are the pure spray. But if it were, I would have used the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e279	Well, well. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e284	We hear that the women's representation in government is at 7.3 p.m., and this is not solely due to the conservative attitude of those who are to appoint government representatives. I could imagine asking the Council of State: how has he intended to change the attitudes of women who refuse to take on such positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e289	Changing attitudes in people is not an easy matter. But at least what I have learned is that there has been no problem in getting a yes from the competent women I have asked, until the boards I appoint so many of them. As Minister of Industry, I appoint approx. 150 styrelse. When I sit in the office in the evening with a proposal for a board composition and that's something I'm not satisfied with, or even if I'm satisfied, I tend to call myself, and it's very rare I get no. I do not feel that it is this refusal. This is about, on the basis of the words of Scripture, that the one looking will find. Obviously, if you don't look, you can't find. Over the past 25 years, more than 50 pst. of those with higher education women, and they have been in work. Competence is present. There is no problem in meeting this requirement. It's actually less than 1,000 jobs in the whole country combined.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e296	The Council of State and I took part in a debate on the radio for approx. one and a half years ago. Then he actually promised it would be 40 pst. women already in place. I agree that awareness-raising is important. But what makes the Council of State think that the goal of 40 pst. The representation of both sexes is to be achieved in 2005, when we have not achieved anything in a year and a half after we had that debate? What is the competence of the Council of State that no one else in this room has?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e306	To the end, I just have to say that I have also wondered. The representative, Hansen, referred to a radio debate where I should have promised it would be 40 p.m. women in place now. Let me say so that in this case there has at least been no change of track with me. My view of this was exhausted, so it was quite flashing clearly on 7 March 2002, and I have not essentially moved a millimeter either to the right or to the left or to the left or to the back or to the back. What I've been busy with, has been that in the companies that the state itself owns, we're going to grab hold of this immediately, because there we don't need legal regulation to do that. What makes the Council of State think he should have this in place in 2005? The most important thing for me has been that we have made a scheme that implies that business has an incentive to go out and get the best of it as quickly as possible. Business knows what will happen if you don't reach this goal. That means they have a self-interest in doing this. I experience a very spring solution and feel very confident that we will be pretty close to this goal. As I said, business knows what happens if they don't make sure they reach the goal themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e317	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e320	Odelstingen is currently examining a proposal for amendments to the rules of company law on the composition of the board of directors of publicly owned undertakings and public limited-liability companies with private owners. The government is committed to facilitating increased value creation in business. The problem today is not that there are no competent and suitable women. The problem is to ensure that the competences of women are used. That's what this gender representation rule has to do with. Increased governance diversity can contribute to better strategic choices, more innovation, faster transitions and thus better profitability. Increasing the share of women in government increases diversity. The gender representation rules also involve increasing equality and increasing democracy. I am very pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees that the low proportion of women is unlucky and that action to promote the use of both genders is absolutely necessary. The Government considers that the rules on gender representation for the part of the privately owned public limited-liability companies should not enter into force if the desired gender representation is achieved on a voluntary basis by 1 July 2005. If the objective is met on a voluntary basis, we will consider whether the provision should be repealed or whether it should remain standing for a while without being in force, so that it can be brought into force at a later stage if necessary. If the objective of gender representation is not met per On 1 July 2005, the Government generally adopts its entry into force. If the law enters into force for the privately owned public limited-liability companies, we propose, as I said, a transitional period of two years from its entry into force. In this respect, these gender representation rules will not become binding until 2007 for companies registered before entry into force of 2005. For companies registered after the entry into force of the rules, the requirements for gender representation must be met from the date of registration. I have noticed that the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party and SV believe that the rules on gender representation for public limited-liability companies will enter into force as early as 1 January 2004. They believe that it is not possible to achieve the goal of 40 pst. the voluntary participation of women and there is therefore no reason to wait for the introduction of these rules. I think it is unfortunate to introduce demands for gender representation as early as the turn of the year and would remind you that the companies have now held the general meetings of the year. Waiting after the 2005 general meetings will give companies time and opportunity to meet the 40 pst requirement. gender representation. The government has given what I would call a political promise to – or made an agreement with – business that the law will not come into force if the requirements are met on a voluntary basis. This has been followed by business, which includes, for example: have led to the launch of a number of important measures to increase the proportion of women. She may well be the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party very pessimistic. Even though I think it's possible to achieve the goal of 40 pst. the share of women by the summer of 2005. The state's got it! In the governments of state companies, the share of women is already 45,7 p.m. We had that already in March this year. At the initiative of my and the Minister of Agriculture, agricultural cooperatives have also started a concrete and targeted effort to increase the share of women in the governance of cooperatives. They include: develop a detailed action plan that is well anchored at the top level. This shows that it can be implemented if there is sufficient willingness to do so. Odelsting's decision here today will be a new and important step towards greater women's representation and better gender balance in business. Finally, I don't want to call this gender quoting. That's diversity we're talking about, diversity in the boardrooms. And here companies can choose from 50 pst. of the adult population.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e341	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e355	Then Odelstinget will vote in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e362	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 2, by Eirin Fallet, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, 3 and 4, from May Hansen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Center Party, has, by mistake, been included in the nomination as a proposal, but it is similar to the Roman numeral XII of the Decision. 2nd@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party says: «The government asks the Government to amend the law on limited liability companies and the law on public limited-liability companies and other laws governing the composition of the company’s board, so that the rules on representation of the equality law also apply to directors of limited-liability companies, private-owned limited-liability companies, public-owned companies and listed companies. Companies with more than 30 employees should have at least 40 pst. by each sex in its directors.’» This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e389	The President will first vote on proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, to I and II. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No 13 June 1997 No 44 on a limited liability company is amended as follows:§ 20-6 paragraphs 5 is replaced by the following:5. The rules in paragraph 1 to 4 shall apply mutatis mutandis in the case of the election of alternates and members of the board of directors to be elected from among the employees. Law No. III of 13 June 1997 No. 45 on public limited-liability companies is amended as follows:New § 6-11a paragraph. 5 is replaced by the following:5. The rules in paragraph 1 to 4 apply mutatis mutandis in the case of the election of alternates and members of the board of directors to be elected from among the employees. New § 20-6 nr. 5 is replaced by the following:5. The rules in paragraph 1 to 4 apply mutatis mutandis in the case of the election of alternates and members of the board of directors to be elected from among the employees.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e688	The progress party has notified that they are going against the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e728	To XII No 2 an aberrant proposal, No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The right, Christian People's Party and the Center Party are behind the setting. This proposal by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left is the first thing to be voted on. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Third paragraph of Decision No XII. 2 is replaced by the following:New § 6-11(a) of Act 13 June 1997 No. 45 on public limited-liability companies is implemented from 1 January 2004 with a transitional period of two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e750	The setting at this point will be voted over. The President has understood that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left now want to support the vote subsidiaryly. - It's nodding. As I have said, the party of progress is opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e766	Votes are made over the setting of XII No. 1 and 3 and XIII. The party of progress is also against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e780	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote against this. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e795	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-27-lower-2.ana.ud430e806	There is no record.
