ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e30	I really think it's a little harry to say what I'm going to say now, but I'm so very happy that we're going to adopt this law this evening. I believe that this is a quantum leap in integration policy and in the way we fulfil our international obligations. This has been a matter that it has been working on since before I ended up in Stortinget, but which I am so lucky to be able to join in. I will not stick under a chair that I am a little proud, because SV has been among those who have pressed for important parts of this law to become as it is today. We must, with all due respect, be a little proud of that. Although I believe that we are better at integration policy than Denmark, which the Committee has just visited, I do not think we are good enough. There's no doubt that if you look at the statistics, there's a good deal of dark reading. There is no doubt that people with a minority background have been overrepresented among those who are unemployed. There is no doubt that there has been discrimination against people with a minority background, in the workplace and in the housing market, which may be the two areas where integration is most important. There is no doubt that when you look at the statistics that are constantly ticking in from the Statistical Centre, there are people with a minority background who have the worst quality of living and who are hit hard by the fact that there is increasing poverty. They have been overrepresented among poor and social welfare recipients, they have been overrepresented among those who have difficulty reading and writing, and thus they have also been overrepresented among those who fall out of high school. For us who are socialists and democrats, it has never been an objective that minorities should become like the majority, as some others stand for. But when we see how a large proportion of the population do not have the same opportunities as the rest, neither to raise income nor to participate in the same way in society – and that is what is in a way the very basic idea of democracy – it goes without saying that politics has not been good enough. This is clearly a classic issue of conflict between the right and the left on whether to pursue a policy that allows people to get a job and not live in poverty and exclusion. However, there is also an important question of how to find the right measures to achieve a good integration policy, i.e. find the right policies for integration. And I feel that the law that we are adopting today is a good policy of integration. This is why I am particularly disappointed that the Government has so clearly defined the main target group of the Introduction Act as the people who come here to the country as refugees. There's a huge need to give people who come here to the country a good foundation for getting along, whether they come as refugees or as family reunions. Looking at the latest statistics from the newsletters published by the Government itself, it becomes clear that, for example, last year there were about 14,200 people who were given family reunification. And as I read the numbers, about 4,000 of those who come are tied up to family reunification with refugees. So that means that there are 10,000 people who are being reunited in other ways. A good part of them -- I don't think all of them -- would have needed a better integration program than they do today. And now when we introduce this to those who come as refugees, the next step must be to make sure that the others are included. The key in this assessment is the need for qualifications, which is laid down by law, and which could have been used with great luck to the other people who need proper integration. There are four things that I think are very good in relation to this law: firstly, we now have a uniform system across the country that does not leave to any local chance and to any other coincidences about a person who comes here as a refugee, gets a real follow-up where he gets there. It has been established that the most important thing is whether there is quality in the programmes given. We leave that to municipal autonomy, and we just have to make sure that, through follow-up and further foundation, we are able to get in place in a good way. But if we are able to leave this to local self-government, this should provide good programs across the country. The second is that we get people out of the social offices and into active qualification and active training for the Norwegian community. The third is that we get a fixed introduction benefit. And I think that with the exact grip of giving people a solid economic foundation, while setting conditions for participation and qualification and quality in the programmes being given, we are able in the fourth way to ensure better compliance with our international obligations to accept refugees, or who have other reasons to come, for example. that they are married to refugees who come to Norway and are thus to be followed up well in the Norwegian community. There is no doubt that all the research that is available shows that getting people into activity quickly, with good quality of activity, is the most important way to get people into trouble when they're going to get around in society otherwise. There are two things I want to tackle, which I think are important, and which are not in place here. One is, as I said, the group of people covered. There is no doubt that when 10,000 people arrive at family reunification in Norway, there are very many of these people who need to be apprehended and who need a special follow-up. And then the argument to the council has been that yes, but this is a personal responsibility. When a person marries someone, it's a personal responsibility for the person who brings a spouse to the country, to make sure that he is followed up. But then I believe that the Council of State is blocking and forgetting to address the challenges for the person who comes here to the country. Because it is the person who has the major migration challenges. This is the case, as we have debated in this Chamber a year ago and later, which in some environments risks being detained in some contexts, for example. Russian, Filipino and Thai women who come to Norway and who do not necessarily receive the possibility of training and integration that everyone else receives. And this is important. That's why it's important that the Norwegian community is in contact with them and says, look, we have a follow-up, we have an offer. That it becomes just like this introduction program is, doesn't have to be necessary, but I'm disappointed that the government has not been willing to support the majority of the committee in making an offer. The second bit is language training. A prerequisite for good integration programmes is good Norwegian knowledge, a good opportunity to participate and acquire knowledge both in the workplace and elsewhere. And then, in our opinion, there is no doubt that it is a disaster that the government, together with the Progress Party, removed Norwegian training in asylum recipients. Research has shown that just starting active day-to-day integration is incredibly important to succeed in the future. And when the government has been very ready to say that the introduction programmes will only last two years, it is especially important to ensure that the time prior to the introduction programmes is set in motion, that is, the time in the asylum recipients, becomes as effective as possible. And when we know, based on the numbers the government itself has presented, that 10 pst. Of these people, sitting more than 68 weeks, and that we have things that can go too easy, and that lead to the family being able to sit for three years before there comes a clarification, it goes without saying that it is incredibly bad integration policy not to give people follow-up until it gets that far. The third thing I want to address is what I've also talked about in the past, namely that, in our opinion, the municipalities do not get a good enough financial foundation. It was promised that Aetat and the Husbank would be the important ways to channel money to the municipalities. The answers I received from the department have not been satisfied with the fact that the economy that should be in the programme is good enough. And I think it's going to go beyond those families and people this is about. The fact that they don't get a child supplement, although obviously there's extra cost of having a child, that housing support is not good enough, and that people under the age of 25, even though they might need it, don't get full introduction support, is a problem, and the whole purpose of this programme is to get people out of the social offices and start qualifying, and then it's going to be offering people social assistance no good alternative. I'm addressing proposal No. 20, which is distributed in the Chamber, and the other proposals where we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e53	The representative Heikki Holmås then drew up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e58	The representative Holmås thought it was important to get immigrants to work, and of course we all agree that it is very important. Let me then show that the Danish Minister for Integration, Bertel Haarder, has had a job no. 1 just to get the immigrants to work. However, one of the main obstacles has been that it does not pay for immigrants to take up work as unskilled workers in Denmark, because income from social benefits and other benefits has been higher than income from work, and there is nothing much better in Norway. In Denmark, a rule has also been introduced that immigrant families receive 20 pst. lower social assistance in the first seven years, and single social assistance is cut by 40 pst. And let me ask: doesn't Holmsås realize that it's a real problem that social welfare benefits and other welfare benefits are too shy in Norway too, and that this doesn't motivate immigrants to actively seek work themselves? Do you not agree that it is worth paying for immigrants in Norway to work rather than to go to social security?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e63	Now I believe that the representative Torbjørn Andersen is shooting a complete record bomb here, because the people who come here and are going to go on the introduction programs are getting introduction support because they are taking part in a program. It has been the whole point of the Government and of the large majority here in the Chamber to make sure that this is as equal to a training and job situation as possible. And then to make sure to give a real benefit for this, of which they also pay taxes, we think that's very right and a good foundation. Moreover, if everyone had followed the same course of action with regard to the things that were said in Denmark, it would also have been known that the social benefits in Denmark are at a level that is quite different from the social benefits in Norway. Now I don't exactly remember the numbers, but the norm for social assistance rates in Norway is over $6,000 for a family, that is, where there are two people living together, and that is a completely different level than what is in Denmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e70	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e73	The introduction of the law on the introduction of newly arrived immigrants is a very positive reform. This means better intrusion and self-sufficiency. And it's not hary to admit it. The Signatories have previously called for the introduction of a system of social contacts for newly arrived immigrants, which obliges them to participate more fully in society. Today we get such a system. I thought it was good, seen from both the side of society and not least from the side of the individual immigrants. According to the Christian People's Party, the law of integration will lead to more positive conditions. First, the law will help each immigrant from passiveness to activity. The Christian People's Party believes that activity is good. The law will be responsible for the participation of newly arrived immigrants — both in Norwegian training, work training and not least in local communities. Secondly, it has been a long problem for newly arrived women not to participate in society on the same footing as men. This is particularly true in language training. It can result in isolation and suppression. In addition, poor integration of children has resulted in a lack of pre-school Norwegian knowledge. For women, this means a lack of information on both justice and obligations. The Introduction Act will clearly help to reverse this trend in a positive direction, as women too will now have an obligation to participate in the various training provision provided. And it's a very important moment. Norwegian training for women will thus also have ringing effects for children, while it will be female-freeing. Thirdly, the law will provide help for self-help. Through participation in Norwegian training, through a basic insight into Norwegian society and through a preparatory course that qualifies for employment, individual immigrants will clearly increase both their competence and their ability to become self-help through permanent work in the long term. Social assistance is replaced by wage income. It has major socio-economic implications. Fourthly, increased skills will increase the self-esteem and self-respect of each participant. In addition, increasing knowledge and greater participation in society will give greater respect and positively change the attitudes of immigrants in general in society. That is also necessary. In a time of great ardor to the stanchive work, the Christian People's Party believes this has an important signal effect. Fifthly, municipalities will have better legal frameworks in their integration work against newly arrived immigrants. The municipalities are responsible for the construction and subsequent integration work. What characterizes the situation today is a relatively long passivity after settlement in the municipality. We can't live with this. Municipalities have long called for tools in their integration work with a view to faster and more systematic training, both in language and in working life. I think that's what we're giving them now. Finally, society will gain in several areas under the law, an economic gain by reducing the payment for social assistance, and not least by bringing more hands into work. Even if we have an increasing unemployment rate today, we need labour in the longer term. Demographics and challenges otherwise show that, in the near future, there may be a high demand for labour, not least in the service-producing sector. Proposal F of the Recommendation states that the reform should be fully financed. Of course she should. But who should determine what is full funding is another question. Of course, the technical calculation selection must come in here, and there should preferably be agreement in relation to the consultation arrangements that exist between the municipalities and the Government. The law covers all newly arrived immigrants between 18 and 55 years of age who have received asylum, are transfer refugees or persons who have been granted abstinence on a humanitarian basis upon application. However, there is nothing to prevent municipalities from choosing to go beyond the age limit or offer the programme to immigrants who have not recently arrived. We in the Christian People's Party believe there is a lot of reason out there in the municipalities, and therefore have confidence that the municipalities benefit from this possibility if they think it's best for the individual immigrants. We see the need for the law to include other groups – I would like to stress this – for example. family reunification of second and third generation immigrants. But this is the first step, and then we'll have to evaluate the system and expand the law if the need is to do this. In any case, the Christian People's Party is pleased that there is broad political agreement to introduce this amendment, for the benefit of both the individual and society.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e103	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e106	After the Christian People's Party national meeting a few weeks ago, we could read in the paper that now it would be over to adopt reforms in the municipalities that were not fully funded. My question is, was there a misquote? Now I hear that the representative, Apelthun Sæle, is saying that the reform should be fully financed. That's not the same thing as the Council of State says, and I ask, is it now that this is going to be for the Technical Calculations Committee, so that we get new numbers on the table after a while? If it had been the case that the Christian People's Party is in favour of, I would assume that Oslo would have a much larger share of those who have received a residence permit today than the Oslo Municipality sees itself able to accept today. Does the representative believe that today's new settlement system, adopted by the Stortinget, is not working and that this should be released freely?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e115	Yes, I stress that we should fully fund this reform, as other reforms in relation to things we impose on the municipalities. But it is quite clear that there will be a debate, and there will be a discussion about what is a full funding. Anyone with a seat with a government authority knows that. Everyone who has been involved in the political debate knows that too. That's why the government has actually said – and perhaps the representative has passed the house, there's a lot of things on the wall these days – that it has to be evaluated by the technical calculation selection when you get experience. And it doesn't take that long to get an experience. So there's a question about Oslo. Well, we see this problem, and we don't want secondary refugees. We want the refugees to bow and be integrated, and we sincerely hope that the introduction programme will also make them better integrated into the municipalities, so that they stay there. But then we also know that many unfortunately move anyway. I have registered what kind of plurality it will be here in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e122	The representative Apelthun Seele explains in his post that she has strong faith in the municipalities, and then I take it for granted that it also applies to the settlement. When the Christian People's Party wants to live freely in relation to this, it might be interesting to know what Apelthun Seele is saying that she believes that the municipalities will deal with this. We have 434 municipalities, and we all know that if we get a free settlement, there will only be a few municipalities that will get the concentration problems, because many of the newly arrived refugees will move to the same municipality. So we might be talking about 10 or 15 municipalities. It would be interesting to hear what documentation the representative of Apelthun Sæle has in relation to the fact that these 10–15 municipalities have signalled that they have an apparatus, and in the future they will have a device that will deal with the type of settlement where the arriving refugees will concentrate in some municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e130	I am glad that I get the inscription that I have great faith in the municipalities. I hope that more people, not least in the municipal committee, can have it. Kommune-Noreg knows this – the sense is roughly equally distributed between this hall and the other popular congregations we have, among others. local government. So, do we want a free conjugation? Well, it's at least with modifications, because we want to steer the construction out to the municipalities. We want to get as many municipalities as possible to accept refugees and integrate them in the best possible way. We believe, then, that the introduction program – to repeat myself – will be something that can make refugee families move out to have a stronger connection where they come, than they have been given to them until now, to society, to society, to society, to school and to the environment, and to everything in our municipalities, and hope that more will be built there. My question with regard to Oslo and the other central municipalities for secondary mobility is: How will Sandberg prevent them from actually moving?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e139	Sandberg won't get answers in this game, now it's the next line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e142	When the government parties, together with the Advance Party last Christmas, removed the language training in asylum recipients for all groups, except those who had been granted residence, it was a premise that the average duration of treatment in the receptions was about six months – for six months, one could sort of manage. But what's the truth, according to the answers from the department that we've been given, is that 90 pst. by those who are allowed to stay, it shall be obtained within 68 weeks. 10 pst. So you're going to have your first stay later than after 68 weeks. With regard to the people who have received treatment and then have been granted residence – I heard a few weeks ago about one that it had taken three years to go through this – I ask: How has the Christian People's Party intended to put in place a good integration policy, when you have to go three years without language training?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e149	Language training is an Achilles heel for the Christian People's Party, and the representative from SV knows that very well. Of course, we have a problem. Firstly, I would like to say that once savings have been made in the context of language training, it was for budgetary reasons. But we haven't given up on processing time. We haven't given up yet. If it turns out that for a long time we can't bring down the treatment period, and that people actually stay here for as long as there's a small minority – after all – we have to reverse or re-examine this. That is what the Christian People's Party has said. But at the moment, we're about to end the treatment period, and we're going to give language training to those who're going to be here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e156	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e159	The UDI report of October 2002 on the experience of 15 pilot projects with a two-year introduction programme is important background information. This applies both in relation to the Storting and in relation to the follow-up of the decision taken today by the Ministry and to the individual municipality which is now to implement an information programme. In summary, the final reports confirm that the project municipalities have improved their cooperation with Aetat during the project period. There are positive consequences to the fact that participation is a commitment to economic performance. Cooperation with voluntary organisations and the Red Cross has been strengthened. There is increasing cooperation with LO and NHO. Health issues are an important field of action in several of the projects. Project leaders report that there are still major methodological challenges to individual action plans. Whole-day services still seemed difficult to obtain. The final reports show that most participants have been able to provide Norwegian education and working practices as part of the qualification cycle, but it is difficult to offer full weeks to participants. Women participate to a greater extent. The need for civic empowerment among those involved in the programme is a recurring theme in the reports. All projects report on continuation. The centre party hopes that a mandatory introductory programme will give the integration work a new boost. Social assistance should no longer be the only option for life support. The introduction arrangements shall be adapted to individual resources and competences. Language training, work, education, social skills and self-help are important components. As the UDI report shows, there are good experiences here, but also very clearly major challenges ahead. The central party believes that full funding from the state is a very clear commitment to happiness. How should municipalities be able to rely on a back-up provided by the technical calculation selection? It is not, then, that the Government in other questions follows up what the technical calculation selection at any time detects in April and that applies the year before. We're deeply concerned about the distance that is per. the date between the KS and Department and the cost of these programmes. It's a shame that we haven't been happy in the committee to be clear. Criticism goes to both the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. They are talking about full funding, but without being able to participate in a decision that says this clearly. We also found it alarming that the government has not listened to the KS and attached the municipal obligation to the settlement system. Fortunately, this is where the government gets the plural number against itself. We're some about the level of the 2G induction service. As a general rule, young people under the age of 25 are likely to receive one third lower benefits. But we also think it is important here to make exceptions in specific cases that the municipalities themselves consider. In fact, we also found it an independent point that the introduction benefit gives ignition to daily money and provides the basis for children's supplements. In an own letter from KS, both the role of the House Bank and Aetat's follow-up are underlined. And let me stress that making a decision on this today, at a time when unemployment has increased, and at a time when Norwegian training has returned to reception, poses very special challenges. It is important for the government to follow closely how this will work. It is also important that the large group that is not currently being covered be given next rounds of opportunity. I'm thinking about the people who come here for family unity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e178	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e181	It appears necessary to repeat that the Right does not wish to impose on the municipalities an introduction system which actually leads to increased expenditure. In addition to the proposal in question, the Government has therefore committed itself to assessing the economy in the context of the annual budgetary procedures. It has been established from the Calculation Committee that it is now too early to determine exactly what any expenditure will be. KS is still referred to. KS is the municipality's stakeholder organisation and naturally imposes these requirements on the municipalities. But does the Center Party believe that we should grant amounts equivalent to the requirements of the KS before we have gained any experience? And does the Center Party think that it's better to deal with insecure estimates than with a safe documentation? And does the Central Party believe that the economy should be determined outside the ordinary budgetary procedures here in the house?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e190	The Central Party believes that new reforms should be followed up with full funding. This is now entirely necessary in relation to the economic imbalances already existing in the municipalities. We believe that there is a very great difference between meeting non-obligatory comments and what is today expressed in the motion for a resolution in the vote: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide full funding for the introduction of the reform of the law. These costs are incorporated in the State budget for 2004 and subsequent years.» If that proposal had been multiplied – not only in the Committee but also in the Chamber – the municipalities could have planned in a completely different way from the fact that they actually received full funding. And then I'm surprised that the right to the extent disavows the vast and wide experience that KS now has with building in the municipalities and with the introduction program. Who would be better at listening to this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e202	A little funny, I can tell the representative Meltveit Kleppa that she should be careful so that she does not provoke the Advance Party so that she never gets a majority for this proposal! I actually think the representative Meltveit Kleppa is a little unfair in relation to the Progress Party. There's no difference between who takes responsibility here. We take responsibility for the municipalities by imposing less on them. Our proposals will entail less expenditure for the municipalities, while Meltveit Kleppa has a proposal that will lead to greater expenditure for the municipalities. In this way, we take responsibility for both of them. On the other hand, the Progress Party takes more responsibility than the Centre Party when we want fewer refugees, less immigration, while Meltveit Kleppa will have more refugees to the municipalities, and thus more expenditure for the municipalities. In this way, I would say that the Progress Party is more responsible for the local economy than the representative Meltveit Kleppa is. I would like to challenge the representative of Meltveit Kleppa on the following: why is it that the representative of Meltveit Kleppa and the Central Party want more support for refugees than for those who are in general social welfare benefits?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e211	I have no doubt that the Progress Party wants a more offensive integration policy. Therefore, I hope that the Progress Party will also ensure that the municipalities get the necessary resources to follow up this work. Then it is that the introduction benefit itself is at a level that, both in terms of building costs and in relation to child care, can mean that there is a need for supplementary social assistance. In fact, we felt that it was important for the state to take on the responsibilities of the families of children that the state should also assume in that area, that there should be expenditure either on child care or on building costs such as the Government per. date not set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e219	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e222	Before the Stortinget was opened in 1997, I was present at the service in Oslo Cathedral. Bishop Andreas Aarflot reflected on the responsibility of power and on the changes in attitude that were evident in our society at that time. Bishop Aarflot reminded us of the old slogan of the labour movement: Do your duty, demand your right – in that order. Do first your duty, and then demand your right! The old have done their duty, and they have earned their right. What worried Bishop Aarflot was all those who started to demand their rights and have not worked up justice through effort. He pointed to the need to tighten up the obligation to provide before one can enjoy. Of course, for newly arrived immigrants, they have not worked up that right. This does not mean that we should not give them the necessary help to adapt to Norwegian society through an organized course in Norwegian language and cultural understanding. The coastal party will decide on a case-by-case basis on the scope of the integration offer, but will not legislate on it as a right that binds future budgets both in the municipalities and in the state budget. Before the last big shot, it was mostly about what rights people should have in our society. The government's parties would reduce the entitlement to sick pay. They have reduced the rights of the unemployed, and they have objected to the pensioners obtaining the rights they have used to earn a working life. It should not be necessary for pensioners to negotiate an increase in pensions. There was supposed to be an automatic in it. The right to free health services is reduced, and the teeth are not part of the body, for the teeth you have to pay yourself. By increasing excesses, they have done the work of art not only to remove the gravitational aid but to tax the tomb itself through the VAT system. The last right, to come to Earth, has become a source of income for the state. It is necessary to reduce the interest rate, they claim the so-called responsible lots. We need to reduce public spending. In such a situation, this government finds it timely to present a bill on economic rights for people who come unsolicited to the country, who have never earned rights in Norway. It is not the year's budget and what can be allocated to integration measures within a given framework, this is what we are talking about. It is a legislative proposal that will enshrine enormous sums in the future budgets, giving immigrants from distant countries greater economic rights, among other things. on the housing market, other than that of the Nordics. One shall have a legal right to housing support. One shall have the right to twice the basic amount per. the person, regardless of his or her own equity or the financial position of the spouse, and one must have a statutory right to education according to individual curricula at a time when more and more municipalities are reporting that our own children are reducing their school offer. There are no individual measures within the framework we are going to adopt or reject today. It is a comprehensive package with embedded cost growth of varying sizes compared to people who have not earned any rights. There are costs that will vary with the number of immigrants in Norway, and all arrows for the cost of immigration are pointing upwards, while arrows for Norwegian economic development are pointing downwards. The only obligation imposed on immigrants to trigger these rights is the obligation to accept an offer that Norwegian taxpayers charge. Granting guaranteed rights to a number of newcomers to the country to the extent proposed here, while still curtailing the rights of those who have done their duty, cannot be a part of the Coastal Party. Although we agree that it is important that immigrants get into work quickly, we believe that costs need to be assessed in budgetary terms in line with other expenditures. We believe that general rights of the scope of the proposition should not be legislated. When we work in an Arab or another country, we are there as long as we have a work contract. Then we'll be chased out when the employment contract ends. We don't get paid, much less social rights, which otherwise is the case here in Norway. We've been trying for over 2,000 years to integrate Muslims and Christians and not get it done. What makes you think that this government is going to get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e237	I'm glad that a broad majority in this room, it seems to be almost unanimous, agrees that we need a better introduction. We need a better system to attract new arrivals faster into self-driving, to support themselves and theirs, to give them a propriety and a dignity on arrival – not get used to social assistance, but let them feel that they are getting a soft entrance, an entrance based on the skills they have. It is an important decision we are making today in relation to the law, but it must therefore be seen in conjunction with several other things that are being done in order to establish better integration for newly arrived immigrants. The size decision was taken earlier this year on rights to real estate assessment, which is a decisive instrument and a right, so that the individual plans to be established under the introduction scheme can actually be implemented. We have to admit that our society is complicated. It's not easy to come here and just get a job. Many of those who come and who have a real need for protection come from countries that are so far away from Norwegian society that it can take time to get in and be active — not least it is important for them to have the opportunity to assess their real skills and make a plan for development further, so that they can use their resources and get out of work quickly. In addition to the introduction system, there is a third element that is important in the future, namely what the Government has now done to implement Norwegian training rights and obligations. There will be an offer that will apply to all foreigners coming here, including those who are family reunited, which will mean that you have both the right and the obligation to participate in Norwegian education — in that it will also be a social element. But it won't be the same thing as here, because what's in this law is that we do something to a group for which we have a greater financial responsibility than the group that had to come to our society because they become family reunions. This is a group for which we are already initially contributing with major transfers to the municipalities to ensure that they are well integrated. But you have to assume greater activity. I'm actually going to oppose the idea that we for family reunions in the future will use e.g. introduction aid as an instrument. However, the methodology contained in the law, the way in which practice and Norwegian training are coordinated, is, of course, fully applicable. It is fully useful to learn — not only for newcomers but also for some who are already in Norway — that seeing these things in context and giving a full-time job will be good. I'm not going to go through all the comments in detail. I just note that we generally get a majority – with a significant exception. That exception is in an area where I understand that you can have different views. I want to illustrate with an example why we have fallen down on what we have done, which is a daily and practical example. There's a lot of them. It's part of those who are self-residents today, who actually do it because they get a job in time while they're at an asylum reception. They get a dwelling via the employer – they move into a municipality. It is not certain that the municipality there has decided to accept someone, but they are allowed to stay there. Very often they have a family that comes for family reunion. Or maybe they already have a spouse. The spouse, with the majority's proposals here, is excluded from participating in the introduction programme. It seems to me to be in stark contrast to the same majority's desire for other family reunions to enter the introduction program over time. What you're doing is you're excluding where one of them is resource-intensive and self-sufficient. We have a lot of cases of that. We have no faith that the opening in the law would lead to a breakdown in the housing arrangements, because you have to be able to get your own home. You have to get to port. You have to have a basis to deal with it in advance. I also hope that the majority of the population sees that there is a certain contradiction between how the outcome can be of what you now refuse to do, that is, what you don't want in the law, and the intentions you have to involve larger groups, and those who will be family reunited. For the main gravity of those who live on their own today, it often does so. It is the most resourceful people who manage to get a job – but they have more family. As far as the economy is concerned, I would like to stress that the government disagrees with KS in the calculations, but we agree that we will discuss the calculations further. We've said that there's more expenditure in the beginning, we're going to take that into account, and then we're going to review the calculations, so we get a better decision-making base. The starting point is full funding from us too.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e256	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e259	I'm recording what the Council of State is now saying. But in a letter to the Committee in response to questions about how the Council of State views the calculations made by the KS, she says that it is essential to deal with these issues in the first place. Many in the Committee believe that KS has done a thorough job and has produced figures that show that it will cost a great deal extra, especially in the first two years of the programme. There are detailed calculations that are contained in the figures from the KS. Now the council says that she disagrees with what KS has presented. Then I have to ask the Council of State the following questions: What are the points where the Council of State disagrees with KS in the calculations they have submitted to us?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e266	We've answered that in letters. We have referred to a number of uncertainties in relation to the calculations given to the Committee, and we believe that KS will in a way double some expenditure and that there will be savings in implementing this scheme. One of the important big questions is: introducing 2G in wages and salaries for all leads to additional costs, or will this lead to savings? In some municipalities it will actually lead to savings because they have social welfare standards higher than this. Of course, it is voluntary for the municipality to choose to poke in other areas of the schemes, but it is actually part of the experimental municipalities that have given more money than these 2 G – others have not – also in some areas where we believe it will actually bring savings. So we've said that one important part of what we have to work with now is to make sure that we build skills. I agree with the committee leader that we have many good evaluations from the trials, but there are also problems. In the most important areas, there is competence, and to stimulate this, we do with different types of means than that inherent in the integration aid itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e273	I think I'm going to go on with the lines that were in place, in relation to this with competence and economics in the municipalities. It's quite right, as the Council of State says, that some municipalities will have a saving. Some municipalities also have huge funds that they have built up because they have been very competent to integrate and have got people out to school or work, and thereby have introduced benefits, which they have funded. But on top of that, with competence. Aetate and the municipalities are, in a way, the major culprits in implementing the reform. But I would like to challenge the Council of State on what is in the bill for others who have competence and who can greatly contribute to our success in relation to the wishes we have, both in terms of language teaching, social training and work training – I am thinking not least of the NHO, LO and others who now have to be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e280	To complete what I said instead, we're trying to build up competence with the seven million. kr that UDI is currently using for training around the municipalities. 150 municipalities have received 30 million. kr. to project work already now, in order to build up competence and be prepared for the reform. So you've given priority to doing that, and I think we'll get better experience as you get a system and see how it works – and then we'll do the post-calculation. But let me say to the last point that I fully agree that we're going to use more sources for this. We have full reform, both for curricula and everything related to Norwegian training, as part of the work on Norwegian law and obligation – we will return to Stortinget when it is done. We have also set out to have a meeting with industry organisations to ensure that they understand what is going on, that they are linked to municipalities, and that businesses are involved in the practice of these activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e287	It's in line with good right ideology to say that if you, for example, If you are married, you will have to take responsibility for caring; you will have to provide the necessary follow-up to ensure a good integration of the person you are taking to the country and marry. But the Minister is not only a Right-Woman, she is also a Minister for Integration. I think it is important that she, as Minister for Integration, gets a few other things here. One is that it's a social responsibility to give people the opportunity to participate democratically in society. There is an equal opportunities perspective here, which is to ensure that women have clear opportunities to respect their rights, to participate in democracy. And then there is a social desire, which the Minister of Labour is constantly teasing: we lack people, labour, here in the country, although it is difficult to understand when we have so many unemployed people. But in that case, making sure that people are able to participate in the labour market, regardless of the reasons for immigration, will be a very important task.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e292	I totally agree. I fully agree that it is important that we ensure integration also for those who come here. That is why we are in favour of Norwegian education. That is why we were obliged to make Norwegian training compulsory, as SV was against – no longer back than spring 1997. It was only the Progress Party and the Right who voted in favour of such a proposal, precisely on the grounds that we were to ensure the integration of the women who came here, and that it was important to have counterpowers against what seems passivating. So we don't disagree. I just mean that it's important that we sort out where it fits in. I believe that the Introduction Act is not about that, I believe that the reform of Norwegian law and duty to training as a compulsory piece is important in integrating vulnerable women's groups and giving them the opportunity to make their own choices. Then they have to have equal opportunities for qualification within Aetat and AMO, but then they have to be treated in the same way as the Nordics, and not in another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e297	I have two questions for the Council of State. First, the role of the House Bank. It is clear from a letter from KS to the Committee that if one does not deviate from the minimum standard of 40 m2 when granting buffer support, the intention to avoid the use of social services will be lost to a large part of the participants in the programme. Does the government plan to change that rule? So to the experience so far reported in the case of Norwegian reception training. Would it not be a clear advantage for a good integration that those who are not open to groundless asylum seekers, but who are waiting for a decision, are given Norwegian training and thus avoid passivity in their first phase in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e305	We removed from the housing support limit of 40 m2 of municipal rental properties in the four largest cities for the current year. There is also an indication that we believe that the minimum standard guard of 40 m2 is one of the main instruments in general in the area of housing support. But we have a full review of the housing support system, and we'll come back to it again in the autumn. Then we have to give priority to what we can afford. I think the introduction law is a good argument for why we should give high priority to removing this requirement. So to the question of the removal of Norwegian training in reception. It was primarily a cut that was justified by the fact that when we first had to make cuts in the budget, it was cutting in this area, when only one in five is settled, lighter than in other areas in the foreign field.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e312	I feel like following up the Council's response to my previous reply. Well, it is good that Norwegian training rights and obligations are introduced for all the people who come here for family reunification. And it's good, as I've said in very large letters, that we're now introducing an introduction system and an introduction law, with all the things that lie there, for the group that comes as refugees. But what I miss in what the minister says is: What about all the situations where the right and duty to Norwegian training is too small – and an introduction program is excluded, because there is no right for him to fit in there? Then the minister might say that yes, but the municipalities can freely give this to themselves. Yes, it is well and good, but there is no money from the state that follows the people who can have such a need. That's when I say that there's a little bit of social responsibility and social involvement missing from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e319	I will first finish the previous line reply. It's like the largest and heaviest group of refugees we get to the country, little going through reception at all. So all municipalities have to establish Norwegian training from the bottom of. I mention all the quota refugees that are coming. They are settled relatively directly in Norwegian municipalities. In this way, there is nothing very different from what you have had an advantage in the past, because those who have been asylum seekers have had better preparation in reception. But that's still 80 pst. sent back. And to put it that way: it is possible to reintroduce Norwegian training at reception, but in that case the Stortinget must find room for it, I think it would have been okay. The working party did not find room to cover the bill for the proposal they had before Christmas. So this is going to cost us $90 million. kr. I agree that there are many holes in our social system, but those holes apply to the Nordics too, as is the case for those who marry and move to this country. Then we'll have to do something in common with the holes, which gives better integration into the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e330	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e335	Both the Committee's comments in the vote and the speeches in the debate here today have shown that there is a relatively broad consensus among all parties as regards the main purpose of the introduction of this new introduction law. The new law on introduction will, hopefully, be a step in the right direction to create a better functioning integration policy in Norway, which must be said to have been a very real need. Therefore it was now time for such a law. Let me add that, of course, it would have been best, in terms of immigration policy and integration, to have put in place a much more stringent asylum, refugee and immigration policy many years ago, as the Progress Party has proposed again and again, but to which the other parties have never wanted to listen. If one had listened to the Advancement Party at an earlier time, the immigration problem would have the same volume, scale and complexity as the case has today. So now we see the result of the lack of understanding of the importance of pursuing a more stringent immigration, asylum and refugee policy in the past. There is currently very good evidence to claim that Norwegian integration and immigration policies have played a bit of a complete fall. One has failed almost completely in most cases, and here, of course, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and not least, the Left and the Center parties must take a considerable responsibility for the fact that things went so wrong. All these parties have allowed border ports to remain open for years, and too many immigrants and asylum seekers have come on the wrong footing, and too many immigrants have had to resort to passive social assistance without having been called upon to do so at all. Of course, when it pays for many immigrants to go passively to social welfare and other benefits rather than to work here in Norway, it really has to go wrong. An increasing number of immigrants will have to go on to value-creating work and provide more to Norwegian society and not remain forever dependent on public services and remain a constant burden on the Norwegian welfare state. Although the debate here today shows that there is a great deal of consensus in this matter, it is nevertheless quite clear that the marked dividing line in Norwegian asylum, refugee and immigration policies remains between the Progress Party and the rest of the parties. The party of progress has for a number of years said that we must make demands on immigrants. Only now are some demands made on immigrants, in this new law, and therefore this represents something completely new in the Norwegian immigration policy context. Of course, the progress party is happy that what we are doing today, hopefully going in the right direction, although it is with too little and too late steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e357	We are not in the committee dealing with this matter, but the majority have stressed the importance of getting immigrants from social welfare to a guaranteed minimum wage of 2 G. All the experience shows that very many of those who come to the country and live on transfers, whether from the state fund or the municipality fund, give priority to sending money to a family in their home country before fulfilling the financial obligations of a residence in Norway. Then they go to the social office to cover the cost of living in Norway. In the Coastal Party, we think it's naive to think that a fixed income of 2 G will change this ingrained setting. We believe that this scheme will increase total expenditure more than we currently have an overview of. It is precisely this unforeseeableness of future commitments that makes us sceptical about extending legal rights for immigrants. All economists warn against introducing new costly reforms to be financed within a tight budgetary framework. And it's not that the government is not willing to extend the framework, even though an increasingly large part of the framework is earmarked for foreigners inside and outside the country's borders. The reduction of increased expenditure must then be within the framework. I cannot see that there is evidence of increases in integration projects beyond what is contained in reduced offers to our own countrymen. The coastal party is not against asylum seekers and those who are allowed to live in this country because they are threatened and persecuted in their own country. But when they travel to that country on vacation, it shows that they have not been granted asylum on the grounds that they are threatened or persecuted. You're not going on vacation in a country where you're being persecuted. Such people have come here on false premises. They should lose their asylum status immediately and not receive social assistance from the Norwegian State, once they have also lied to us initially. I have to make it clear that something is wrong in this society.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e366	I have two questions that I would like to get some clarification on from the Council of State of Solberg. One is linked to housing support. Because if we all agree that the most important thing we do in relation to the economy in this is to make sure that people do not get social assistance – and that it must be the main objective of the way we organize the transfers and that people get an introduction benefit – I get a little worried, or a little uncertain, when the Council of State of Solberg so clearly says that it is not relevant to lower the requirement in relation to housing to less than 40 m2. It's already less than 40 m2 for people who are pensioners with income under the minimum pension plus 30 pst. It is already less than 40 m2 for the people living in municipal dwellings in the big cities. But for the rest, our main objective should be: how can we avoid these people having to go to the social office to raise an extra benefit, how can we ensure them a proper settlement through the housing support? The second thing is about the part that goes on leave. We have a note on page 19, at the bottom right, referring to Section 7 of the bill. There is a halt to the programme for participants offering ‘appropriate work’. The objection is that when making regulations and guidelines, etc., you have to encourage municipalities to have a practice where they stop the programme for the participants, but rather give them leave, so that you do not get an incentive scheme that makes it ‘risky’ for people to go out to work, because you risk losing all the rights of the programme. Because it has to be a goal to make people get out as quickly as possible. Then you have an opportunity from the municipality to give leave instead. But my opinion is, when the government parties are outside the comment of the majority, that a signal is sent to the municipalities that no, don't be silly about the leave, take away the people's program as it stands. I think that is very stupid, and therefore I think that the Council of State could have said something positive about this – that she really believes that leave should be used instead of shortening or removing the programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e373	Yes, then the Stortinget has had its immigration debate again this spring, too, with fine weather out, as we tend. But it's been a good debate, so that's good. But there's something strange to hear in the debate. One is, among other things: The representative Holmberg, who said in his post that this does not cost anything for the municipalities, this has been run by the municipalities constantly, this is nothing new. I sincerely hope that this is something new, and that this is something that is now going to work. So many of us have found earlier in the debate that we have not been good enough to achieve good integration here in the country. Then we must not say that this is nothing new, and that we do not believe that this will work. So I hope that I have the Storting with me, and I also hope that I have the Commune with me, when we start this arrangement, and that this will be a scheme that we can say in a few years' time that it was right to implement. The representative Sandberg said in his statement that the Progress Party was the first party to submit compulsory Norwegian education for asylum seekers. It's okay to brag about it now. But what has been done is to reverse the understanding that there should be compulsory Norwegian education, all the time now to kiss Norwegian education in reception. We've heard here today that there are a lot of people who might be in reception for three years before they get into a municipality. It is then clear that it would have provided a pretty good basis for having had Norwegian education in all these years, when they are going to start the integration programme in the municipalities. The representative Anita Apelthun Sæle says that she wants managed settlement. Yes, she may, but that's not what she's going for. The Christian People's Party is in favour of today, is a form of free settlement. Then the representative also says that she's worried that Oslo might get in trouble. Does it really mean that the Christian People's Party does not have full control of what they are in favour of, or of what they are now in favour of? Or is it actually the real problem that you want it to be a freer settlement, is that the government should get rid of the problem that there are too many people living in reception now, which costs quite a lot of dollars?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e384	I believe parts of the line from Heikki Holmås were due to the fact that he heard errors. I said it was time to remove the 40 m2 limit. We just removed it for municipal rentals in the four largest cities. But I think we need to do that in the context of the whole review of housing aid legislation, because we need to give priority to the many wishes for changes in housing aid. There are relatively many debates we have now had, where there have been different parts of the housing support system that have been involved in making improvements. It is perhaps time we took this in a unified, uniform round, and that we ensure – and I think that is a very important part of the introduction system now – that the rules that we have here, with the exception of the introduction system itself, should be quite similar to those that go on the introduction system, as for ordinary norwegians. That's why you don't get a baby supplement. We think you should get paid, you have to pay taxes. It shall not be a social social welfare system of that type of design. It's neutral in relation to other income. In this case, no elements of need shall be included in the design of the social benefits. So it's going to be as much like what you're going to meet at a later date as possible. So I want to say to the question about whether there are new arrangements. The most important thing about the introduction system is to put experience and work into the system. Some municipalities have done a lot. Some municipalities actually did a lot before we created the trial plan too. At least there were municipalities that had started doing a lot of systematic follow-up work. Other municipalities have come short. It turns out that those who are best placed to get people to work quickly are those who have a surplus on the transfers to the municipalities that have been given to them in recent years, while those who are the worst at getting people to work are those who actually spend more money than they get covered because they get transfers from a country-wide average. There is an indication that better systematics actually provides savings over time, including in the municipal sector. Let me also say something about this with leave. I would like to stress that it is not the case that you are entitled to a two-year programme independently. You're right on an individual plane that also says something about the length, but the maximum length is two years. I am a little concerned about the idea that if you can get to work, you have a right to Norwegian training, and you have the opportunity to get a lot of Norwegian training, but we have to get better at organizing it in the afternoon. But when it comes to freezing it in some way, leave it as a job for a while and then come back, I think it is better for the municipalities to find out what they think is useful in relation to the individual plans. I don't want to give any special guidance as to how to use the leave, because I'm actually concerned that those who can get to work quickly will get to work quickly. Walking among ordinary Nordics in a regular job is the best means of integration we have. Then you speak the language, you learn the behavior, and you secure a better future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e393	I would like to comment on four themes – for the role of the first House Bank. I thought the signals given by the state council in that field were good, that she now looks closer to what is pointed out by KS about the need for softening when it applies the 40 m2 rule. It is also said in the same letter that once this rule has been changed for the four largest cities, these four cities settle 15 pst. of new arrivals in 2002. It should be involved and underline the need for a change. It was also such that there was a clear commitment from the law-enforcement committee that the House Bank's housing support was to be extended to cover everyone. So I thought the Council of State is somewhat unclear when it comes to leave. I want to encourage her to be clear about how to deal with this, given that there may actually be a very strong need for someone who has recently come to our country, to have the opportunity to try a job and know that there is a way back. This may also mean a lot for the municipalities that make the individual plans. Then I see it this way when it comes to Norwegian training at asylum recipients, that when the number of open-ended asylum applications is now falling, the Council of State says that one will have reduced expenditure in that field. Then a well, including the signals from the Christian People's Party, would have the opportunity to evaluate this with Norwegian training in reception as a good start compared to the introduction program to follow up. So finally, how has the Council of State actually intended to follow up on what the whole committee points to, if not equally binding, that the municipalities should not have increased expenditure? Is it so that it's what she's calculated of, or is it so that she's open to discussing the real costs of KS? So today, just for the months of 2004, it's 100 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e407	There is very little one can bring the debate this way at the end, but some things do not help you to avoid wanting to comment. The councils were concerned with this with savings for the municipalities. I was into it myself. It is true that some municipalities have had savings and earned money to receive refugees. In the future, there will probably be municipalities that will have a saving or a enrichment of it too. But that's relative to the number of refugees you receive. In relation to what the state council says about free settlement, we're probably going to experience the opposite. At that time, the municipalities that receive most of the refugees in the case of free residence will probably not receive any savings or enrichment, but expenses. But we've stopped that now. The Committee was in Denmark, and we see how far Denmark has gone in terms of seeing the link between immigration and integration, where there has actually been a direct control over where refugees live. They base it on how many foreign cultural people live in the municipality, how many inhabitants there are in the municipality, and then they place refugees after that. This means that some municipalities in Denmark today do not receive refugees because they have received so many earlier. This is simply because Denmark has seen the link between immigration, the number of refugees coming, and the integration process. I wish the Council of State could have seen it that way. Then to the representative eye and Norwegian education in reception. Yes, I have said that the Progress Party must take responsibility for this. But we can't take responsibility today. We cannot take responsibility for the fact that the Workers' Party, together with all the other parties in this House, has filled up the country's asylum recipients, so that today there are 16 000 to 17 000 people living there. We cannot take responsibility for that. I think that Signe Eye and the Workers' Party should take a great deal of responsibility for that. It is better to apply with the Progress Party for a procedure that will be so short that we get these people who are being rejected, as soon as possible, out of the receptions. Then I had a comment to the representative Bastesen, but as he's not here, I'm dropping it. But I would like to say something about proposal F. I can signal that I would recommend to the Group of the Progressive Alliance to vote in favour of that proposal when we come to voting. But the question is, according to what the government council and government parties have said here today, whether it means something to adopt such a proposal, as the government itself will consider what is full funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e422	I need to say that they released the statements to which Signe Eye refers, are wrong when they are not seen in full and are taken out of context. This ‘costs nothing’ and ‘this is nothing new’, needs a little immersion since it was presented in this way. I think the opposition is unfurnished in this context. Otherwise, I want to say that in this case, as in some other things, I think you often think in black and white, and that you don't have enough will to rethink to do things in another way, that is, drive better and do things differently. The keyword here is the modernisation of the public sector, in this area as in other areas. There the Workers' Party held the tab high under the Stoltenberg government, but now it is in a hook, unfortunately. In my article I boasted of the introduction scheme, because it is just such a measure that will lead to a better structure and better organisation. Things can be done in a better way and hopefully get a successful result for both municipalities and Norway. We've redistributed the economy. There is evidence that the first two years will be increased costs, but it will be evenly over time and not entailing large costs. If the forecasts fail, we have annual government budgets, where we can correct them. What I think is often forgotten in this case is that already today, municipalities are working to settle refugees and immigrants, to have their children in kindergarten, to get them to school, to provide leisure services, to get adults to work – that is, to do all the elements that are also to be included in the introduction system. But now it has to be structured in a better way. Each shall receive its individual programme in agreement with the municipality and with follow-up. This is a good starting point for successful integration. However, the content should be defined by the municipalities today, even if the introduction system is not in place today. I think there is so much consensus on this matter that what we should do now, when we have been through the debate, is at least to wish each other happiness and hope that the result is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e433	The chairman of the committee, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, asked what we would do with funding in the future. What we're going to do is follow up on this both in the budgets and in the Technical Calculation Committee. We're going to go through the individual elements of the constellation, but we have to have more time to go through these calculations than we have, because KS sent this to the Storting and did not give us the calculations that are available, just like we've done in a number of other areas. I would also like to say that it was wrong, what was said in a previous post, that we have not fully financed. The reforms we have had recently have been fully funded. At the latest in the municipal bill now under treatment in Stortinget, we fully fund the last part of the School Package 2 by adding money for 2004. There is still disagreement between the KS and the Department. Such disunity will occasionally arise. It goes a little bit on which basis to do the calculations, but there's a marginal disagreement on that point in that case. It's important to stress that it can't be that when we have a system that calculates what costs actually are, where both the independent, municipal and ministry sit together in a calculation committee, we have to say in advance that KS's numbers are alpha and omega. It's not always like KS's numbers are alpha and Omega, and they're the right ones. We have a system to do that. Just as we've done a number of previous years, we've calculated what the cost actually is. In retrospect, we have increased the integration grant to municipalities on the basis of it. So maybe we'll identify something more in the future. But it is part of the proposals that lie here today, which it would probably also be as natural to include in the ordinary budgetary procedures as when dealing with a legislative proposal. It reminds me of a debate we have on whether all parties age their own proposals. Some of these proposals must then be re-examined in the context of budgetary commitments and balances. You cannot say that you have made a proposal because you are promoting it here in the Chamber if you want to have a proper political debate. Then I want to say one thing. There are no parties that I have heard in this room, and none in the setting, that go in for free housing. In our opinion, the question of letting those who have settled for themselves also have an opportunity to do so is a limited opening for a small group who actually live where they have provided housing, and many of them have one in the family who has obtained a job. So you exclude the rest of the family from being able to participate in an introduction scheme where the self-residents don't come in. I don't see this as a bar door, I didn't want it to be a bar door. But I think for some families where there are strong ties, that we would have had the small opening, that would have helped us get a little less secondary housing, because it's more than just housing and work. There are also emotional relationships that make some people want to move, and secondary mobility is still the biggest challenge in particular. The Oslo area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e442	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 752]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e458	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e465	In this country, the police have not yet been able to apply to the foreign registry to use fingerprints posted at the crime scene. This has been possible only in relation to criminal acts committed in other countries. This restriction in the foreign regulation seems quite unreasonable, and it is a unanimous committee that welcomes the Ministry's proposal that a provision of the law be included in Section 37 of the Foreign Affairs Act that the police may use the foreign register for the purpose of investigating one or more acts that may result in a higher sentence than prison for six months. The time seems overdue for this change in the foreign policy. An ever-increasing development and change in the image of crime leads to the need for other and new measures to combat increasing crime. Being able to use fingerprints will provide the police with an effective tool in their efforts to combat organised international crime. Not least the serial crime we know about it suggests that searches in the foreign register should be allowed. Experience has shown that the introduction and trafficking of drugs are largely carried out by non-residents in Norway. The use of the foreign registry for the purpose of investigation is aimed at preventing criminal foreigners from establishing themselves in our country. The use of the foreign registry for fingerprints posted at the scene of the crime could also help prevent cross-border organised crime from further gaining a foothold in the country. The recent worldview calls for increasingly effective investigation methods to combat activities that could otherwise threaten the values we want to preserve in society. In this regard, it should be mentioned that we are not alone in this. Similar practices are also practised in our neighbouring countries Denmark, Sweden and Finland. There have been some uncertainties about who is actually in the foreign register. So I think it's right to clarify that two groups are included. It is asylum seekers who have applied for treatment, and it is those who have been rejected, expelled or expelled. This means that immigrants with a residence permit in Norway are not to be included in the register. Moreover, the general rule is that the deletion from the register shall take place after five years. Several paragraphs of the Foreign Affairs Act provide for expulsion. The abolition of border controls between Schengen countries has allowed third-country nationals who are not entitled to stay in the Schengen area to move between Member States. The Committee considers it essential to prevent third-country nationals with expulsion decisions from one country from travelling to other Schengen countries. That is why we support the Ministry's proposal for Section 29, which allows our authorities to recognise another Schengen country's decision to broadcast. I refer here to the Council Directive mentioned in the proposition. A majority of the Committee accepts that the Ministry wishes to send some of the legislative changes in this field to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Despite strong criticism from the Progress Party, we choose to allow the sample to assess the questions it has been unclear about. On the right-hand side, I would like to point out that it is a matter of course to follow up that Council Directive. I would also like to say that Norway has not gone on a different line than other countries in the implementation of EU directives. Finally, I would recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e486	The fingerprint register was created in 1992. Under certain conditions, it allows fingerprints to be taken by foreigners seeking asylum in this country and to register the images electronically. The purpose of the register is to prevent asylum seekers from applying for a residence permit under several identities and from receiving applications for asylum processed in several countries. At the same time, it follows from Section 131 of the Foreign Regulation that searches in the foreign register shall not take place in connection with the investigation of offences committed in Norway. However, the Government now proposes that the police be allowed access to the EDB fingerprint register for the purpose of investigating criminal offences. A number of conditions are laid down for the authorisation of such search. Such authorisation shall be granted, inter alia, if a crime involves more than six months of imprisonment or if fingerprints are provided at the scene of the offence. It is proposed that, in order to apply, there should be no suspicion relating to a particular person, nation or ethnic group, or that a foreigner is suspected of being behind the criminal offence. At the end of the day, this should be a simple matter, where a change in today’s law would make it easier to identify asylum seekers involved in the introduction and translation of drugs and other organised crime, both internationally and here in the country. But the matter also has an important principle: Should the police be allowed access to the foreign register, a register intended for an administrative function in the investigation of criminal offences where only a relatively small group is registered? In view of this, several of the hearing bodies have disagreed. It is probably also part of the case that both Sweden, Finland and Denmark allow searches into the register of foreigners in the event of criminal offences. The Labour Party will be in favour of the bill to allow the police to search the fingerprint register, even if there may be fundamental reasons to oppose it. Once we have reached that conclusion, it is not least in the light of the information that has emerged after the case came to Stortinget. A letter dated 16 May this year states that the register only applies to asylum seekers and that fingerprints will be deleted within a certain time if the application is rejected. Fingerprints are also deleted if asylum or residence permits are granted in Norway. Immigrants living in Norway are thus excluded from the register. This is a significant limitation on what you can probably read by Ot.prp. No 49. The intention of such a decision is, of course, to provide the police with an effective instrument to combat crime and to prevent criminal foreigners from establishing themselves in Norway without legal residence. The decision will help to prevent organised international crime and crime in general in this country. The Labour Party therefore supports the amendment. In order to prevent third-country nationals who have been expelled or expelled from a Schengen Member State from taking such a decision by moving from one Member State to another, the Workers' Party considers that this must be followed up by the reduced Committee on Foreign Affairs and further investigated, inter alia. in the event of a new consultation, etc. The Stortinget will have to decide on this at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e501	After the reply from the representative, Mr Øyes said that there were several people who thought this was a simple matter. The government also believed that this was easy, when it was thought that this was a directive that could be implemented without any changes to the law. Accordingly, the Ministry of the European Commission informed that the Directive would be applied in Norwegian foreign policy. However, after a more thorough review, it appeared that the directive required legislative changes and therefore had to be submitted to the Stortinget. In the draft consultation, the Ministry proposed a number of legislative changes that would have led to a broad recognition of other Schengen administrative and judicial decisions on the expulsion of third-country nationals. That's what it was originally like. But after this has been at the hearing, the government has obviously chosen to train and to be naive in this case as well – as in all other cases. It has drawn up a number of proposals and has chosen to maintain only the amendments concerning the recognition of non-residents who have breached other Schengen countries’ entry or residence rules and the changes relating to the exchange of information between Schengen countries. All the other changes in the law are now passed on to the Foreign Law Committee, and as I understand it now, they are going to reconsult, and then we know what time period we are going into. That is why the Progress Party has said that the procedure is critical. It is unfortunate that the Ministry first announced the accession of Norway, without the necessary competence, and then drew up all the proposals which followed up the most important elements of the Directive. The Progress Party believes that cooperation between Schengen countries is very important in combating organised crime and terrorism. And I want to make it clear that Norway is one of nearly 80 countries that have signed an agreement on such control. The abolition of border controls has allowed third-country nationals to move freely between Member States. It is therefore important to maintain cooperation which may prevent persons expelled from one Member State from avoiding expulsion by moving to another Member State. Earlier today, I referred to a documentary that was shown on the NRK the other day, where we see how extensive that kind of asylum hopping is. That is why I am pleased that we are at least going as far as to give the police the opportunity to use a register, even if I see that there are only small business compared to the challenge we are facing. The Progress Party has noted that the Government has drawn up its original legislative proposals after some hearing bodies have given negative feedback on the legislative proposals, including: in relation to giving Norwegian authorities the opportunity to deport a person if another Schengen country has adopted a broadcast for strong reasons to assume that third-country nationals have committed serious criminal offences. The objections that have been raised are that expulsion is believed to be a punishment, and therefore foreigners receive punishment for crimes they are only suspected of standing behind. The Progress Party believes, however, that there are strong general preventive reasons behind this change, and that the new world situation with increased terrorist risk indicates that we are changing our laws to fit the current situation. It is an essential point that Norway must recognise only the broadcasting decisions taken by other Schengen countries, when all Member States are obliged by the same principles and human rights as Norway, and when those countries themselves have made a decision as to whether third-country nationals are at risk of their security. The Progress Party simply believes that it is unsolvable of Norway as a Schengen member that it would not recognise decisions that could potentially be of crucial importance to the security of our neighbouring country. At the end of the day, I think that we can also innovate that the decisions and proposals contained in the directive have been adopted by democratic countries. I think we should also recognise it, instead of training it by perhaps spending one or two years implementing it in our own law. At the end of the day, I will address the suggestions from the Progress Party that have been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e520	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e523	SV supports the legislative proposals contained in the setting, but has some own comments attached to them. We have accepted that the police are now given the opportunity to use existing fingerprint records to search for fingerprints that have been assigned to a crime scene, and we have justified this in two respects. We believe that every country has a legitimate need to resolve several issues related to people who have not been granted residence in the country. It is also because law-abiding asylum seekers and the whole population of immigrants are severely affected by the fact that crime is linked to this population, that it is very important for the others to clarify these issues. And some of the speeches we have heard from the Progress Party both in this debate and in a lot of other debates show how important it is to clarify such matters. For the impression that the Progress Party has, and that they are trying to spread, is that all foreigners are potentially criminal and dangerous, they in a way give the whole group collective responsibility and blame for what individuals do, and then we think there is a need to use some methods to get better clarification. Because it's not that you're necessarily more likely to be a criminal because you're not born and raised in Norway. We also believe that there is a need to clarify part of the cross-border profit crime that exists. We have probably been a little surprised by the views of the Government and the majority on what is serious cross-border crime, especially when they have attached this to a six-month penalty framework, which is a rather low penalty framework, and which has little to do with serious threats to country and security. One kind of gives a sense of how to deal with a problem that is much more serious than what you go into. But it's legitimate to clarify these crimes. We also believe that it is legitimate for those who have not yet received a stay in Norway to be exposed to an additional method of investigation, which this proposal will lead to. With regard to the criminal framework, as I mentioned earlier, the Government has put forward several propositions relating to cross-border international crime, and there is very little consistency in government policy when it comes to criminality related to such crimes, in particular the concept that it is organised. The Judicial Committee is now considering another proposal, on federal legislation, which says that there should be extra penalties if there is a penalty for the crime of more than four years. There are also other procedural propositions that I think show that the government has a little consistent relationship with what they really think is serious international crime. Then I need to make some comments on the proposals that the Government does not promote. We are very pleased that they do not promote them, because it would mean that the term «guilty» would have a completely different content to what it has today. So you have to be able to be expelled because of suspicion, and I want to ask everyone to think about what that really means. That the Progress Party thinks it's okay to be expelled from a country just because you're suspected of something, I'm not so surprised. But I am very surprised that the government has at all promoted this proposal at the hearing, and that they have not intended to put it away. This seriously violates important legal principles in a legal State. So, finally, I would like to point out what SV has written about protecting children's rights in expulsion cases. Norway has received packaging from international authorities, and we believe that we have a responsibility to take care of children in such cases. We are not doing that well enough today, and that is an consideration that we have committed ourselves in our ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child to do better than we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e538	It's a difficult task for the police to have when they're going to fight international crime. The criminals are like a horsehead leading the way all the time. In our civilised society, privacy has seen strong limits to what police and publicity can afford when it comes to controlling and regulating ordinary citizens' lives. And so it has to be, because we don't want a big brother to see you-the community. But we don't want to let the criminal gangs, not to mention the Mafia, go free. International crime is particularly hostile to human beings in so far as it concerns drugs, which crush their victims, trafficking, enslavement to women, and the porn industry, which exploits and abuses women and children — all with great service and the need for this service to be whitewashed. On 11 September 2001, a new dimension was added and the world actually changed. It calls for more and more effective research methods to fight the terrorism that will otherwise threaten the values that we want to perpetuate: our freedom, our security and our open society. The Christian People's Party realizes that we must be tougher in the fight against crime. Actually, we still want Cardamom town, but we have to stick to the reality. Will this measure, which allows the police to search the foreign register in connection with a criminal case, have an impact on this large picture? I agree with SV that it's hardly revolutionary. Many of the crimes committed in Oslo, Berlin, Paris and Rome are made by foreigners who travel freely within the frontier-free Europe, and who obviously do not seek any respite or asylum. Borderless trade may also mean unlimited crime. Schengen and Europol mean intensive joint fight against crime, but they do not in any way replace Interpol and hardly compensate for the lack of border control. So to the crime that's related to asylum recipients. There, this measure will have a real impact, and it will undoubtedly make the immigrant population feel that more things are being solved, the perpetrators and the suspects are being removed from the law-abiding. I would like to underline that there will be no follow-up for immigrants with suspension privileges, because they have been deleted from this register. So all in all, the Christian People's Party felt that the data protection problem was limited, and that the extended use of the foreign register was justified and intended. The second part of this case applies to third-country nationals who have been expelled from a Schengen country. I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party voted against the Schengen Agreement. We did so for many reasons, also because we believe that Norway needs to assess an application for asylum on a self-contained basis. The last thing we're keeping track of in this case. At the same time, these proposals will be submitted to the Foreign Law Selection. That's where they belong, because there was actually a lot of confusion in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e555	The central party supports proposals for changes to foreign regulations, so that the police can use fingerprints for searches in a foreign registry. This applies to fingerprints set aside in a place where there is a criminal act with a lower penalty of six months. It is necessary to intensify the work of resolving several issues related to people who have not been relocated in Norway. It is desirable to fight organised international crime and the crime of profit among the groups involved. Here you can set clear rules in relation to which register is valid and how long a person can remain in the register. Deletion shall be carried out by the acceptance of asylum or permissions which may result in settlement rights. For the person who receives a refusal, rejection or expulsion, the image shall be deleted after five years with certain exceptions. Foreigners are overrepresented in crime statistics. We see it as a right to set up this register to help clarify more issues if possible. It is necessary for the many law-abiding asylum seekers and for the benefit of the immigrant population in general that crime by a few does not lead to stigmatisation of whole populations. Many hearing authorities are concerned about the legal security aspect. It's also the Center Party, and we think that the multiples here have found a good balance. The proposition is not clear enough when it relates to this matter. A large number of others therefore underline in the setting that this register only applies to people who have stopped working in Norway. We find it alarming that the government on one side comes with this proposal, among other things. with the reason that it is to reduce crime in asylum recipients, and at the same time itself has taken the initiative to remove Norwegian training for those waiting for treatment of the case. We want the Council of State to listen to something more about the experience they are currently doing in receiving, both in terms of passivity and in relation to the danger of increased crime. The second part of this case contains an assessment of the hearing draft in relation to Section 29 of the Foreign Affairs Act. There has been a proposal for a hearing on extradition of suspicion. It has a weight of strong reactions – right. Here was added to take over the work of the courts. It is a proposal that involves a difficult change to the legal system that we have in Norway today. It is a proposal that requires careful consideration, and it is good that the Government itself drew that conclusion and therefore does not propose such a change now. I would also like to say that it is striking if the Government here announces that such an amendment is consistent with the Schengen Agreement, and then draws another conclusion later. Unfortunately, it says something about how subservient a person is initially when new EU directives are proposed. But at the same time, it's also good that one in this area changes its position. Finally, there is a comment on which SV stands alone, which refers to the law in Sweden when it comes to expulsion, and which also refers to the issue of child care when it comes to assessing expulsion matters. We would probably be in favour of that comment from the Center Party, and I would ask the Council of State to take along what is pointed out there, when she now assesses changes in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e574	Today we are dealing with a matter of the Foreign Affairs Act. I wonder how we can get that law of treatment in Odelstinget. After all, the Ministry of Local Affairs has changed the Foreign Affairs Act by means of a regulation. It has not been in Odelstinget for treatment. The regulation states that foreign ships may sail loaded from port to port in Norway, with foreign crews on board. They do not pay VAT, nor do they pay Norwegian taxes on diesel because they are piled abroad. Those sitting in this room have accepted – that the Ministry of Local Affairs has changed a regulation. The ship inspection does not go on board the boats and investigates whether people on board have a work permit and a residence permit. It shall be governed by the Foreign Affairs Act and by the provisions adopted in Odelstinget. These boats, who fly by foreign flag and foreign crews, they go in pure competition with boats flying Norwegian flag and Norwegian crew. They carry the same load. But they can go a lot cheaper, because they don't pay VAT, they don't pay taxes, and they don't pay the rent that Norwegian crew can have. They go from port to port in Norway, contrary to what has been adopted in Odelstinget, because the Ministry of Local Affairs has changed a regulation. It sits the Council of State in this room and accepts. They have apparently sent it out at the hearing, but it has apparently not reached the hearing bodies. It is well discovered that something is wrong somewhere. However, the ship inspection has still not been commissioned to board the boats and check that the foreign crew has the residence and work permit in order. These boats compete with Norwegian boats, and not only with the boats, but they compete with the young people we have. We send the kids to school, we let them train to become seafarers. But they cannot board Norwegian boats, for Norwegian boats have to take foreign crews on board and take another flag aft. There may be a Panama flag or another flag in the stern. They cannot pay the rent demanded by the Norwegian crew. The Ministry of Local Affairs has accepted this. Where are the officers coming from? Yes, they come from the Norwegian crews. But on the day that the Norwegian crews no longer exist, how are we going to get Norwegian officers on those boats that fly a foreign flag? We don't even have Norwegian officers on those boats that are Norwegian and that are under foreign flag. Isn't it a cross of thought for us sitting in Odelstinget, that we can accept that the Ministry of Local Affairs is changing the law without presenting it to Odelstinget? So a few words about Schengen: we have accepted that the Schengen Agreement should also apply to Norway. We do not have control of what is happening in other EU countries. We have free immigration to Norway. I myself have been standing up here on the Lion Hill, and there have come people from another country who have been asking for the nearest police station. I have then taken them to the guard to show them at least one superior to whom they could turn. These are persons who have been refused their application in another country, but because of the Schengen Agreement they can come to Norway and address whomever they want. That's the way it is, and we've accepted that. The majority in this room have accepted it. And I have to kick a little bit to the Advance Party. They've also accepted it. Or is it that the Progress Party is opposed to the Schengen Agreement? It would have been nice to get an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e587	Now it is enough that the Schengen Agreement helps us as a basis in the form of established procedures in relation to asylum seekers who must have applied for in other countries and who then come to Norway. But let me talk about the matter that is being dealt with here today. That's two main points. One is to search the foreign registry for fingerprints posted at the crime scene, and the other is the EU directive related to reciprocity in relation to the expulsion of third-country nationals. I would like to say that there is something first in the setting that is not quite correct. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party say that it was not ‘notified that the register was to be used for anything other than a means of identifying persons seeking asylum and residence’. That's not right. In connection with Ot.prp. No 83 for 1991-92, i.e. the establishment of this, it was actually explicitly stated that it would be possible to apply on the basis of fingerprints received from Interpol or the police in other countries. Thus, it has always been possible to use this register for the purpose of investigating criminal offences in other countries, while it has not been possible to use it in relation to criminal offences committed in Norway. In a way, we're now getting a little bit more balanced. The SV and the Central Party state in the preamble that the proposed six-month penalty framework does not reflect the criminal framework for international crime. I agree. On the other hand, I think we should be aware that investigation of the major criminal cases can often start with other things, and that there is an important input to getting information. Not to forget the crime story: Al Capone was never punished for what he actually did as a mob boss, but for tax evasion. Many types of information have contributed to the fact that organised crime has actually been investigated and revealed. Not least in relation to trafficking in human beings, in relation to prostitution and some others, there is much to suggest that criminal penalties down to six months are also important. The second point to be addressed today is the directive on the mutual expulsion of third-country nationals. In fact, I agree with the criticism that was made that this should not have been reported, that it was not a problem, and that the directive was accepted without any clarity as to what legislative changes it would require. It is simply because this is a difficult directive. It's hard to see how large it is. There are a number of departments that have worked on this, and there is a little uncertainty about how far to go with some paragraphs. This is also one of the reasons why we have chosen to submit the proposals we now have to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, simply in order to have a little time to investigate two things, among other things. the question of the extent to which the mutual obligations contained in this Directive go. We believe that what is now being proposed is clearly stated in the directive. There is uncertainty about what the rest of this directive really requires of us. The second part is that it should also give us time to look at what the other countries are doing. Per. Today, this may indicate that, at the initial consultation, we drew our interpretation of the directive further as a commitment than the other countries in Europe have actually done. Then it is important for us to have a better overview of how other countries perceive and read the same text. I am concerned that we in the Schengen system should have a balance within the law to achieve that. So I want to comment on some parts of the comments related to the question: what does it mean that we don't now promote it? Firstly, it may seem that what we are promoting is the same as most other countries have done in relation to this directive. But we are open to see how implementation goes in other countries. The new Foreign Affairs Act will be available at the turn of the year 2003-2004. This means that there is a relatively rapid review of these consultation proposals. Let me put it this way: the reactions that we received immediately the hearing also indicate that even if we were to say that we had committed ourselves after the directive to implement more, it would not be acceptable to promote the wording as they have legally been included in that directive, because the suspicion requirement should be better qualified, and there should also be a clearer clarification of the legal position of it. But this does not prevent Norwegian authorities from expelling foreigners because of terrorism. We already suspect access to that under the law, as it is today. Nor does it prevent aliens from being expelled when they have previously been punished in other countries. All of this is based on the law that exists today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e608	The following representatives shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e611	I need to ask the Council of State to say something more complete about two themes. One is the removal of fingerprints from the registry. In the response from the ministry, and also in the proposition, it appears that there are hearing bodies who have said that they are not entirely satisfied with the procedures associated with the register. What becomes very important is that we know that the ones on this register are the ones to stand there, and no one else. Otherwise, we'll be able to be suspected that we want to use this kind of investigation method on our foreign population who has a legitimate residence in the country. We've now established that that's not the intention, that's not what you're going to do. I would ask the Council of State to say a little about how she will ensure that this register is up-to-date and correct. The second concerns the legislative proposals that were not promoted but were included in the consultation draft. The councils now said, commendably enough, that parts of the wording there were not acceptable. I would therefore ask the Council of State to say a little about the substance of these provisions with which she might in that case expect to go further, and to say a little about the concept that has been used there, namely that one should be capable of being suspected. Is it at all acceptable for the Government to use it as a general provision, as this would be? Now, when we talk about the provisions that the Government has drawn, but as they say can come back in connection with the Foreign Law Committee, it's more than the ones that are in the fingerprint register. So it's a large group of immigrants to be treated in a summary way. I just want to remind you that if it's first about international crime or serious crime, it's not an unknown phenomenon that evidence is planted, and that to get rid of someone you think is caring, maybe a competitor even, plant evidence. It can be easy to get a suspicion against a human being. But the important rule of law in Norway must be that you do not get a government reaction to yourself, whether it is a conviction or an expulsion, if there is no evidence that you have actually done something wrong. It is a very important principle of law, which I hope the Council of State will confirm that this government will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e620	Let me first say – I understand that with the statement I am making now, I am at risk of drawing the debate very far beyond the evening – that it is absolutely incredible what the representative Karin Andersen is making himself say from this pulpit – absolutely incredible. It is, whether it is a parliamentary expression or not, directly frank. When the representative, Andersen, places the entire Council Directive in jail at the Progress Party, because this is our opinion, and says that this has a completely different agenda, then the representative, Andersen, has not understood anything. This is a Council Directive. I would like to remind you that the Government would initially implement the whole directive. I would like to remind the representative Andersen that her party colleagues across Europe will go in to implement this. And then she stands here in the pulpit and criticises the Progress Party because we are promoting the legislative amendments that are needed and for which her party colleagues in Europe have broken up. It's a rudeness! I also think it's going well when Andersen's representative is standing on the pulpit and trying to express that the Progress Party has spread the impression that all immigrants and refugees are criminals. I take a strong distance from that. But she would like to be allowed to say that the policy that SV and Karin Andersen are pursuing is a bear service, which leads to the scepticism of the Nordics getting bigger and bigger for every year SV's policy in this field has been carried out in miniature. For SV, policies that have been pursued for 25 years will have been strengthened. Then we can ask the population why they're skeptical. They're skeptical because we have an immigration policy that SV stands for. I recommend the representative Karin Andersen to go around among the groups she is standing on the platform and to take care of, and hear what they have to say about the amendment of the law of the Progress Party in immigration policy. Then I think she'll have a very, very big surprise. What is bear service is that SV is at the forefront of providing all criminals, suspected terrorists and others who have no legal reason to stay in Norway, diet and lodging for an unlimited period of time in Norway. That is why most people in this country are very sceptical about immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e629	The President has only to confirm that it designates other representatives who are perfectly completely unacceptable in terms of their parliamentary status.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e632	I just want to respond to the two requests that Andersen had for me. I agree with what she said that it is important that the procedures for deletion in the foreign register are followed, and that errors in the register are not acceptable. We will ensure that we follow up when we are now working on regulatory changes. We want to ensure that the procedures for registration and deletion are correct in this work. We need to ensure that what we actually register is the purpose, and that is to be implemented in accordance with the legislation. Let me say a few words about this directive. So, as I said earlier, the problem of implementing a directive text is the question of how much is binding and how much is not binding. That's one of the reasons why we've actually asked the Foreign Law Committee to look at it, and see how much we're going to tie it up. Our starting point is that we probably wouldn't think of this from our own heart in this area. However, we have believed that if the Schengen area is beginning to become unbalanced in relation to expulsion legislation, then we must have a very good reason for that. I think it is illogical if we were to be forced by a directive to implement expulsion based on suspicion of criminal acts done in other countries, that is, where the suspicion of criminal acts is present from other countries, from the authorities of other countries, and accept it, with all the usual proportionality assessments that we have in Norwegian law, and that we should do so without having the same possibility of deporting, based on the same suspicion, in the case of very serious crime. I would like to remind you that in the proposal that had been put to the hearing, the penalty framework was set at ten years. It's a pretty high level of punishment. As regards both the question of suspicion and the question of planning, there were two elements in which the hearing bodies disagreed. I have to admit that when it comes to planning, I have the opinion that if an expulsion was to help, for example, that a woman was not killed – because we suspected that it would happen because she lives in a country other than Norway – I'm not sure if I think it could have actually been done. But we're going to look at that, even though it would break the legal principle that you're based on suspicion and not judgment. This is because, to the extent that there is also a planning context, it is more difficult to wait until you see that the planning is actually done and documented, but you have clear indications in that area. But so far, these are not things that we want to promote on our own. It is entirely dependent on the question of whether it is within the scope of the directive to do so, but, as I have said, much indicates that other countries have not interpreted the secondary effect of this directive so that it will necessarily be a real issue for a new political debate in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e643	Karin Andersen has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e646	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, which I thought was elucidating. When it comes to planning crime, it is quite possible to criminalise it, so that you actually have a proven case before you take action. That's the principle in all, and I'm glad that the Council of State has such an attitude to it. When it comes to the post of the Sandberg representative instead, I think it speaks well for itself. It proves why there is reason to believe that the Progress Party has such positions. That they spread such attitudes as they do is widely known, because it sees and hears everyone who reads newspapers and takes part in debates. That they choose to use any case to also spread these attitudes, we find it regrettable. But we have a very different view of this. SV believes that we need a policy to succeed in a globalised world, where more people should be able to live together. That means we have to have a positive starting point and not suspect whole populations, but individualize responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e655	Perhaps it could be misunderstood so that I talked about another matter instead, but since we are dealing with the Foreign Affairs Act, I thought it was timely to talk about it. However, the real issue is that, through the Schengen Agreement, asylum seekers can come to Norway and meet, for example. I'm on the Lion's Hill. So once they have been rejected in another country, they can even come here at Stortinget and meet a representative and get asylum granted here. It's serious! It is so serious that I think that we, who are dealing with that legal text today, should take it inwards. We should not grant any asylum, which has been refused in another Schengen country. At least it should be said that the agreement we have concluded with Schengen. When a register is established and it is established that an asylum seeker cannot come to Norway once he has been refused in another country, it would be a matter of course. We should simply show them out of Norway when they do not have the opportunity to apply for asylum here because they have received a refusal in another Schengen country. But as it is today, we can't do it with the law in hand, we can't do it. I think it's nice. And I think it's nice that Odelstinget can't propose this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e660	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e663	It is with satisfaction that I register that 70 pst. of the population of Norway supports the immigration policy of the Progress Party. I am pleased to note that many parts of SV's trust elected also want the policy of the Progress Party. And I am pleased to note that, within large parts of the immigration organisations, they also support our immigration policy. To Bastisen: In his first post he would have a reply from the Progress Party on whether we could accept Schengen or not. Yes, we had the big discussions at the time, we too, I must say to the representative of Bastesen, but now it is the case that the Schengen Agreement has been implemented, and then it is about using what comes from Schengen, as best we can, and here we see that Schengen comes with a directive that helps us to tighten up asylum immigration and registration of criminal asylum seekers in Schengen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e671	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 757]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e687	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e694	Proposal for an amendment to the Law of 26 June 1992 No 87 on tests in general government is a direct follow-up to the treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 2001-2002, as indicated in Innst. S. No 268 for 2001-2002. It's a hole that involves trials with a unit state. Such an attempt is not allowed in test laws. A legislative change is therefore necessary, and the Labour Party, Right, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party support the change in test laws proposed by the Ministry. Then it is that in the setting of St.meld. No 19 says the majority in the committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, that it is preferable to experiment with unity groups. And the same plural points out that a lot of trials need to be started with a unit state in order to gain the widest possible experience with a new administrative model. Interest has been shown from many municipalities in connection with such an experiment. Six preliminary applications were received in the department — two were rejected. After the proposition was made, both Østfold County and Sogn and Fjordane County have withdrawn their applications. Both of these county councils believe the government and the state councils have sent out a fuzzy signal. Both the Labour Party and the Center Party felt it was a special thing that one of the departments could not speak with one tongue in relation to the applications that were handled. The government says in St.meld. No 19: ‘One of the main principles of government modernisation of the public sector is the delegation and decentralisation of responsibilities and powers. This means that local freedom and local responsibility must be at the heart of the modernisation process. Local self-government must be strengthened. For the municipalities and county councils, this means that they must be given greater freedom of action and autonomy.» The government will re-write: «Local and regional elected bodies should be responsible for tasks requiring local and regional political judgement.» The majority have reason to refer to both these quotations and to the basis on which Østfold County has based its application. Thus, in the reply letter from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to the County of Østfold of 13 December 2002, they agreed to proceed with an in-depth application, without any objections to the content of the first application being raised by the Ministry. In response to a question in the Stortinget on 5 March 2003, the Council of State finds it necessary to specify and define the basis on which to initiate a single-cell experiment. Both the Labour Party and the Centre Party are deeply concerned about the process undertaken by the Department in this matter. When the premises are so limited, it is difficult to see the purpose of initiating such tests. The Christian People's Party and the Right make silent state councils change their premises along the way. There is a plural note here that is well worth noting at the end of the day, which suggests that the aim of the experiment is to give the county councils and the regional population elected levels, through new tasks, the opportunity to have a more holistic responsibility for designing a more powerful regional policy. The majority believe it is important to ensure that the county should have a leadership role in the trials in all areas, and ask the government to ensure that the trials include the transfer of tasks from the county under elected control. The majority of the Committee argued that this was the Ministry's basis for further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e726	The reason why the Odelstinget is now going to make changes to the law on trials in general government is the Stortinget's decision about a year ago, when the Stortinget treats St.meld. No 19 for 2001-2002. A large number of them indicated that it could be advisable to run several and broad trials with unit groups. The majority wanted this to have an even stronger decentralization of tasks. There is no doubt that the local population-elected level, both in the county municipalities and in the primary municipalities, feels that today there is a strong centralised governance of the tasks. In addition, the county continues to carry out important control and oversight tasks. In practice, it means that state-affiliated civil servants of the county can know municipal decisions dead and powerless. In this case, overseeing will be taken care of by the state bureaucracy and not by the regional population-elected level, i.e. the county council. The majority has agreed that county councils should become a powerful regional policy player. This is to be achieved by increasing the image of regional and regional policy instruments. Greater freedom of action and self-determination through local freedom and local responsibility. - It's all right. But we have to be careful, otherwise the county councils will be nothing but a dispatch office for the distribution of government dollars according to state guidelines. This was the background for the plurality as Stortinget treats St.meld. No 19th@item: It is therefore strange and very sad that the Council of State has given such a vague and contradictory signal to the county councils that had a clear desire and aim to strengthen the government. As a result, two county councils, Eastfold and Sogn and Fjordane, have withdrawn their applications for district councils. In an inaugural phase, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs accepted that efforts should be made to bring regional development, regional service provision and regional administration together under elected government. Exemptions should be made for the review, verification and supervisory functions. On 5 March, the Council of State put forward a much stricter practice, in an answer here in the Stortinget. The fact that several county councils drew the application is clearly unfortunate. The action of the Council of State has resulted in the aim of the attempted unitary group being lost. I hope that the Council of State in its later article can answer why she has led such an inconsistent line in this matter, despite the fact that the Storting has given clear guidance on what should be the content of the experiment. The future of popular government is under pressure. We experience anti-political mood waves every day. We have several examples of power being systematically shifted from elected bodies to directorates, administration, businesses and AS. In parallel with this, market forces dramatically increase their power. The Labour Party is concerned about the future of the People's Rule. That's why we want to ask the Government for unit state attempts. It shall involve the transfer of tasks from the county to the regionally elected level. I want to do the government's words in St.meld. No 19 to mine: «Local and regional elected bodies should be responsible for tasks requiring local and regional political judgement.» With this, I expect the government to follow its own basis when deciding on the applications for tests from the states that have applied for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e750	It is important and right through attempts to test out alternative ways of organising government. Then we can gain experience with different types of models, and then we can form part of the decision-making basis we need, whether we want changes or reforms on a broader and more permanent basis. In this matter, we are committed to the wish of a broad majority of the municipal committee, as proposed by the Government in St.meld. No 19 for 2001-2002, that attempts were to be made to organise the county office and county council in a single administrative unit. Now we might have a slightly different idea of how successful such a model could be. I would suggest that with all the trials and cooperation projects we have at the moment, we are probably soon closer to six levels of government in this country than the two or three of these debates were really going to be about. However, I still believe that this is a basis for obtaining practical experience in order to improve our public administration, and in this case at regional level. The need for the law change we are dealing with here has its background in the fact that the basis for the county municipality is found in municipal law and electoral law, while the role of the county council as regional administrative body is not subject to general regulation in law. I share the view that a unitary experiment has such an extent, and modifies the regional administration system in such a way that it is natural to include a specific and explicit basis in the Test Act. There may also be grounds for stressing that, in the context of a later, more complete, review and evaluation of the Test Act, it may be appropriate to supplement the Law with a more specific basis for trials relating to the administrative structure itself. The amendment proposed in this case is intended only as a basis for this particular attempt. There is a broad majority in the municipal committee behind the position of legislative amendment under consideration here, a position which the Right Group is also behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e761	I see no great need to repeat the arguments and views of the Progress Party either in this case or when we dealt with the division of tasks in 2002, so I will try to make an article that is a little more based on what we do in public administration. But first let me say that I am very pleased that some of the representatives of the municipal committee have been at the lunch meeting with the NHO today, and then they came back with the last issue of Horizon. On the front page it says: «The rapporteurs will tear down the municipal borders». And when you look up on page 22, it's nice to see that at least it's 94 pst. by the right-wing rapporteurs who still want to close the county if we are to believe in the study that has been carried out. That's what I want to focus a little bit on, and I heard the representative Hogsnes pointing at a significant point. Today we are in the situation that we are building up more and more administrative links. I don't know if Hogsnes can prove that we're approaching six levels of government, but I'm afraid he's right, because there's a lot of testing in the public sector, especially at primary level, in relation to inter-municipal cooperation, large municipality, joint municipality, etc. And it's clear that when the state, the government, is on the one hand offering funds that individual municipalities can have for projects and to conduct investigations in relation to mergers and such things, much of what happens is happening. And then there's the seventh and last wasted money, because once they get their action plans, they don't want to make the decisions anyway. It shows this study that has been carried out here, that the rapporteurs around the whole country want us to make decisions for them here on the Stortinget, that we should go in on the Stortinget and say that now we have to do something about the municipal structure. It is a majority of the rapporteurs who actually want to join the neighbouring municipality or lay down the municipality. That's interesting reading, I think. As far as county councils and trials of unity are concerned, as the majority wished, it did not become a wide area of experimentation. Now there are two counties left. It is clear that then there will be no wide-ranging experiment from which we can gain some experience. I'm not going to go up the objections the Progress Party had to the entire testing scheme with unit states, but I'm going to look at what's happening in relation to the municipal proposition, and what happened in a short time ago. It is clear that there is nothing left to do in the county municipality! This is where both the Center Party and SV are right. There's nothing left to do! Now we're also going to leave farms with what's got to do with booze, psychiatry and child protection. Then I understand that the SV and the Center Party want to carry out the county council tasks, if it is to continue in the future, because that is the big problem. Then the question is whether we should be responsible here in the house and realize that the county has nothing to do with it, and whether we should let them do it for three, four, five, six or seven more years. That's what's part of the problem. That is why I am calling for more pressure from the Government – especially from a government where the Minister of State is from the Right – and that the existence of the county council is signaled to be over in 2008, so that we could have something to deal with and plan from – especially the people employed in this section, and the politicians involved in this section. Then they had something to plan from and look forward to, because we can't operate the way we do now! I also find it a bit interesting – and perhaps I fear it a little – that more and more politicians in Norway are starting to talk about regional policy and refer to EU regional policy. There is a problem in this country. We have a population base that, regionally, compared to Europe, hardly constitutes a suburb to Hamburg, but then we have an area that may correspond to four-five regional areas in the European Union. Combining it, I think, is going to be incredibly difficult. I will end by saying that I think it is sad that we in Stortinget cannot now make decisions that say that the county councils' days are spoken, at least within a certain time perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e778	To the county. I get the feeling of déjà vu when I stand here, in relation to last year, because we had the exact same debate then. It's summer, and it's county municipal debate and trials with unit states! It is not that we in SV have changed our mind enormously. Last year we thought that this attempt at unity was a bad idea. The reason was that we thought it was unclear what the states could achieve, and we thought there were unclear responsibilities between the county council and the county councils. Isn't it a little funny that the county councilman is going to stand up to a county council, and then he's going to end up in a position where he's going to have to carry out ex post law enforcement in relation to the exact same thing? Is it not problematic that the county, which we want to have power, i.e. democracy, should be able to instruct the county council, and in that case how, if it was fully cut, the county council could kick the county council? – It is clear that there was a lot of unexplained relationship here, as we said last year, which made us oppose. But the majority wanted this, and had not clarified what it meant about these principal questions, but played the ball further. They wouldn't clarify. But the councils have for example clarified what it was she was thinking about this. And what she was thinking, couldn't possibly have come like some bomb. Those who know the council may not have been surprised – perhaps a piece of potato in their throats, but not a surprise the day the council answered the question here in the Stortinges Question Time. For it would be funny if a Right-State Council actively and offensively went in to give the county council more tasks, and whether a Right-State Council would actively and offensively contribute to giving the county council a supremacy. We knew this! Now it was like the majority hadn't clarified anything at the time, and the majority still haven't clarified anything. But they'll go in for these trials. Then we don't see any reason to go against these changes as proposed here. But I want to say that we have been positive that the county municipality has an over-municipal character in some contexts. The experiences from Akershus argue that this is something that can work well both for the municipalities and for the county. We have been positive about shifting more responsibility for industrial policy, more responsibility for transport policy and more responsibility over everything that has to do with the state acquisition of hospitals, to which we were negative, over to the county council, in a more binding state plan. We are concerned about democracy, and we feel that what is happening in health businesses, for example, now is a fundamental transfer from democracy to non-democracy. We're a little busy with democracy in SV, and that's why we think it's fine with more democracy. I also think that it is a paradox – this is, of course, for the Progress Party – that we should sit at the Stortinget and decide on subterfuge in Fauske and elsewhere, whereas we therefore believe that it is a disaster to have county municipalities and regional bodies that will be allowed to decide such things. It must be that the sense is evenly distributed here in the country, and that people who are closest to the issues must be responsible here. I don't think there's anything more to say than that it's true that when fewer and fewer tasks are left for the counties, this should light up some sort of warning lamp in the Christian People's Party, which after all has said: at least we've had the impression that the county council will survive. There is no sense in its existence if at the same time it is not able to fill local democracy and regional democracy with offensive content in terms of regional policy. I also think it is a paradox when people look at Europe and say that Europe has an offensive regional policy. So if we're going to have a regional policy with no democratic content, it's nothing. We must have a regional policy with democratic content and a democratic framework, because democracy is important. It is in a way the challenge for the Right, which is to abolish the county municipality. If you reject the county council – you have to have some democracy – how is that going to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e799	According to the Christian People's Party's opinion, the county is an important and exciting attempt. We believe that the conditions of possibility are described in St.meld. No 19 for 2001-2002. It states clearly that local and regional elected bodies should be responsible for tasks requiring local and regional political understanding. It is a basic principle that must also apply in the trial of the unit state. I therefore believe that the Single European Act will have a democratic effect on the county office. I actually think it's positive. We'll see when the tests are to be evaluated. It does not mean – I would like to make it clear – that control and oversight tasks should be governed by a popular society. This case is not about the content of the single state trial, but about the legal secret of it. Everyone, except the Progress Party, supports the amendment of the law, thus opening the door for two attempts at the unit state. The Christian People's Party would like to see both Eastfold and Sogn and Fjordane stuck to their applications. That would be exciting. It could have shown way for the future, but ‘made and eaten’. Of the six states that wanted to try, there's only two left. But when the frames are ok and the hold offensive, it's exciting what can come out. The evaluation may show that this is the path to a simpler Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e810	No one was perhaps more surprised than I was at the fact that the Eastfold County Municipality chose to withdraw its application at the time they did, based on the fact that they thought I had said something other than what was actually the proposal relating to the unit state, to which the Storting had agreed, and which has actually been in previous notes. I think I've realized that what they've done is read something else from the trial than what we did in St.meld. No 19 for 2001-2002. At that time, the representative of the Central Party clearly understood what was at issue, for the representative of the Central Party, wrote the following about the trial of the Unit Group: ‘The scheme of the government involves careful administrative coordination in the experiment. This member believes that a broader approach should be open to real coordination between different departments.’ But the Center Party understood what we had suggested. The majority of the population was not included in the Central Party's comment, but thus ended up with the proposal that the Government at the time promoted. The center party was the only party that had comments with different points of view. In this way, it should be understandable that what we proposed was that the unitary attempt was an integration of the county council and the county council, not a transfer of tasks to the county council. So we have other trials dealing with the transfer of tasks, namely the task differentiation trials, where the three counties in the West, the three municipalities in the Viking Region and in the Uppland State actually get more of the tasks transferred. We have also said, and as I also said in the answer I had in Stortingen's Question Time, that there are simple tasks that clearly have this regional development perspective, and that it will therefore be natural internally to move over, where the planning area was one of the areas of duality, and that regional development is linked, among other things. BU funds were a different area. In this way, I feel that the confusion is not due to the fact that the Council of State has said something else. It's been understandable to anyone who would understand what this experiment really was about. The aim is to simplify and streamline management at regional level, so that users can have a better service provision, see if there is any synergy of administrative co-ordination, because there are some areas where there is double work and it is important to use cross-disciplinary competences in this respect. So that many have wanted to transfer more tasks in connection with these trials is a desire that has largely come from the county municipalities that have applied for it, and not an attempt that we have made. I think you might understand that. My perception reaches that e.g. In the case of Eastfold County, we have said that the unitary group per. definition is the aggregation of the county office and the administration of the county of the county under one common administrative director, while they have stated that the county should be given tasks to be transferred to the county. So that means that their answer and their model would give other results. So I don't take criticism of unclear views and signals. In fact, I believe that we have been relatively clear that the unit state is an administrative coordination gain attempt, but that in other areas we have had attempts at task differentiation, where it has just been about transferring tasks in larger monn. So we need a home. That is what we are really discussing today. I should have liked to attend the invitation to discuss the future of the county council. It's not up to the Right and the Advance Party. The Right Party and the Advance Party both have clear programme formulations. That we believe that we could do without the county council, the Right is standing by. But we recognize that in the Sem Declaration we based ourselves on the fact that there was no majority in favour of it, and have said that we should then work on creating a good division of labour, where we include that we still have a municipal level, which is democratically elected, which is directly elected. Then the level should have reasonable tasks to run with. That's why we have, among other things, decentralised the instrumentation and large parts of the management of the instruments of regional and district policy from the Ministry of Local Government to the municipalities. I just want to say – I'm sorry it's a little on the side – that I think the Upbeøen Hansen had a very good frame that it was important that we didn't provide more centralization and government. When it comes, take it to the debate on Rus II. Bring it to the discussion about how much we're going to move to the state. In fact, I believe that the biggest challenge for democratic bodies today is that we are moving too many tasks to the state, especially in the area of welfare, which is an important area of democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e830	I fear that creating a mastodon of an overcommunal by merging the county council and the county council and creating these so-called units. The idea of integrating the county council and county council into a regional body with common administration is an idea with no specific objectives and meaning, as I see it. The entity is a matter which can both lead to less local self-determination and at the same time reduce legal certainty for individuals. The Progress Party has several times proposed that the county should be closed, both as a political and administrative level. In a country with only 4.5 million inhabitants, we do not need at all three levels of political and administrative administration. This overbureaucratisation of the country is a waste of time, energy and the community's financial resources. In a region’s Europe, the whole of Norway, in my view, is to be seen as a region without any need for any division or other regional breakdown. With regard to municipal autonomy, the local self-government, which is so immensely popular at the moment, I see it as an imminent danger that an external unit will go at the expense of reduced municipal autonomy. The county council is already a strong interventional factor in local self-government. This intervention is, in some respects, very negative for local self-determination, when the county bureaucrats outrun the elected representatives at municipal level. But what is one of the most important issues, and perhaps something more clearly should be put into focus, is the legal certainty of the individual within a unitary group. As the Board of Appeal in e.g. Matters under the Planning and Building Act are, according to my experience, no good guarantor at all today to ensure that the legal certainty of the individual is properly ensured. Legally, legal certainty could be used to terminate the county board’s function as a complaint body and instead establish its own independent complaint panel, consisting of lawyers competent to take decisions in appeal cases. There is therefore no good reason at all to merge two public administrations which, as I see it, are not functioning separately, appropriately anymore, and which are in the process of playing their own role in more and more areas. Nor must it ever be such that the delegation and decentralisation of power and authority in the states must become an objective in themselves, which can be at the expense of municipal democracy and the legal certainty of the individual. The creation of an over-municipality poses an imminent danger at the unitary state. Too much authority and power is being gathered in a way that weakens municipal autonomy, and weakens the legal certainty of individuals. None of this can be a good goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e851	I should be glad that the Council of State finds it advisable to site a single central point comment from the treatment of St.meld. No 19, but in this case, I actually thought it was a derailment. The setting does well for what was said in Stortinget, and I could elaborate on what has been said by the Government on pages 47 and 48 in St.meld. No 19th@item: There's no need to go any extra deep in it, but there's e.g. the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will launch a limited number of trials, such as: test different models for the organisation of review and supervisory tasks. They have been said about the applications that they include. will be assessed in the light of the premise that the complaint and supervision tasks should be carefully assessed and that the legal security of the individual should not be compromised. Sogn and Fjordane and Østfold County Councils have done a thorough job on applications – they have me here. They create a temporary sketch that was not rejected in the ministry. I think it's clear that the Council of State, on March 5, in its answer in Question Time, narrowed down what might be involved in an experiment. I actually thought that the most important thing in this case, as it now appears, is to ask the question: What kind of dialogue has there been between these two municipalities and the department that have made them think it necessary to withdraw their applications? Let me finally say: it is such that a broad multiple in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 31 for 2000–2001 concluded that a regionally elected level was necessary and targeted. It was also confirmed during the treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 2001-2002. I thought it was striking that the government and government party now seemed to speak incessantly with two tongues. On the one hand, they are talking about tasks with regard to continuing education, culture and regional development to be carried out by the county. At the same time, they will have a tough edge that makes offensive solutions difficult. This is particularly striking when it comes to the new tasks of regional development. It has emerged in retrospect that the county councils are running hospitals well. It is alarming that one now, by drawing child protection, intoxication and psychiatry, seems to take additional strangleholds in eight county municipalities, but that's what we get back to in connection with the municipal proposition. So in this session, there's a little bit of a test left on what was the original plans of the county councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e864	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 758]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e880	Speakers of the case, Ivar Østberg, do not sit in Odelstinget, and I would therefore like to stress on behalf of him that this is a matter of only positive content, so positive that even a little praise to the Government has been given as a comment of the Committee – just enough camouflaged as a quote, but still somewhat rare. The case concerns an EU directive on health and safety. This should also apply to fishermen, but Stortinget asked that fishermen's working and sleeping time should be treated as a matter of their own, and that is what we are handling now. And there is therefore harmony and agreement between the Government and the fishing organisations on the measures that can improve the safety of fishing and fishing vessels. In spite of very different operating patterns in the Norwegian fishing fleet, a system has been found to satisfy all parties. The Committee welcomes the fact that the regulation applies to all those working on Norwegian fishing vessels, irrespective of whether the vessel is owned or co-owner. However, fishermen working alone on their own vessels may be exempted from the requirement. I recommend the consultation of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e889	This bill is a consequence of an EEA directive on which Odelstinget took its position in June 2002. In contrast to now, this case was both when it spelled out the department's handling and skin assessment, during all criticism. The case had not been heard, nor had there been contact between the department and the social partners when it broke the bill. This was the background to Odelstinget's decision to deal with the issue of working and sleeping time for fishermen who have a case later. The councils have now done what Odelstinget asked for, and the case has received a full and thorough assessment. This was confirmed not least by the Federation of Fishermen, which in the hearing was very pleased with the open and good dialogue established by both the Department and the Maritime Directorate. I join that rose, and not just as a quote in the setting. The laws and regulations shall help to protect workers, in this respect fishermen, against damage to the fishing ground. Particular attention shall be paid to health and safety in relation to night work and shift work. There is a lot of good research that night work does not promote good health. Therefore, night work should be minimised. I also don't think that the new, experienced, overtime rules are good for safety and health for the fishermen, even though I recognize that the work on the fishing fleet leads to very different operating patterns. In addition to this, I have no comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e900	I should like to make a brief comment, which relates to the practice that I am now assuming that the Ministry uses to deal with issues comparable to this one. It was a matter of some concern in the committee that the department here would implement a directive without contact with those like this. We found it necessary from the Committee's side to ask for cases to be brought back to Stortinget as a matter of our own to be sure that the necessary dialogue had taken place. It's against this background that a co-conspirator's committee actually praises both the Ministry of Industry and the Directorate of Maritime Affairs. They've done what the committee asked for. They have seven for the open dialogue that was necessary. They have helped to make the entire committee feel safe in relation to the changes that are being made. Let me just ask that this matter can form precedent in relation to other things that may come. The Ministry tightens up its own practice and ensures that the parties to the debt are heard and given access to a dialogue, which should be, of course, relative to changes such as this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e909	In normal circumstances, it would be unnecessary to make any comments, and I would not. But when there are so few things going on that are obscure, explicit praise to the Council of State from so prominent members of the opposition in the National Assembly, I almost have to take advantage of the opportunity to thank it at least. I finally admitted that the proceedings that had been carried out did not satisfy the procedural requirements to be imposed in the implementation of such a directive, as regards contact with persons and organisations it would involve. Now I think maybe you shouldn't go as far as Meltveit Kleppa, who said that it was necessary to tighten up practice, even if you had not followed the book at the time by an incursion in this case. But I'm going to hand over the Storting's unreserved recognition both to the Maritime Directorate and to the Department's staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e916	It must be nice to end the debate on substance. 4 with so big and touching aloft! No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 759]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e934	In Ot.prp. No 45 for 2001-2002 a proposal for a new law on the election of mayors, councillors and councillors has been made. The proposition is based on the Committee's investigation NOU 2001:3 under the explanatory title «Choosers, electoral arrangements, elected». For practical as well as temporal reasons, parts of the law dealing with elections to county councils and local councils have been dealt with earlier, because these provisions should be in place in good time before the preparations for the forthcoming municipal elections begin. For its part, the size has dealt with the relevant amendments to the provisions on the electoral system laid down in the Constitution. Today we are going to deal with the parts of the law that deal with elections to Stortinget, and thus the entire electoral law is in place. The same applies also to the overall provisions on the electoral system. How a society organises and implements elections to different decision-making bodies is one of the cornerstones of a functioning democracy. It is therefore natural that there should be significant debate when existing provisions are proposed to be amended. It is a common wish that the electoral law should not be so static that the provisions tend to ignore a society that is constantly changing for its part, while there is a need for some stability and recognition from one choice to the next. The electoral law must also be designed in a way that is accepted and understood. It must be as fair as practicable as regards the allocation of mandates and the possibility of participation. Most of the fundamental differences of opinion have been debated earlier here in the Chamber, particularly in connection with the consideration of the electoral arrangements in the Constitution. I'm not going to invite you to repeat debates that have ended, and decisions that are made, but stick to the questions that are going to be clarified here today. Most importantly, there is agreement as to the provisions to be applied in the event of a roll-call vote and how they should be designed. However, in one area the views differ, and the possibility for voters to influence personal choice. A cumulation scheme — that the voters, by crossing one or more of the candidates on the list, give an additional vote to the candidate(s) receiving such a cross — have worked long in elections to the local councils. It can easily be said that there is an established system known to the voters and used to a significant extent. The Electoral Committee proposed – against one vote – that a similar system should also be introduced when choosing to fill in and store, but with the clear difference that in these cases a certain number of voters should be required to make the same change to the list if it should be implemented. The sample proposed a minimum of 5 pst. of the votes cast, a cross had to be given to the same candidate in order to result in changes to the list. When examining the rules for the election of county and local government, it was decided to introduce such a system for county councils, but where the requirement for the number of people who had to make the same change in order to make the election was set at 8 pst. The scheme is seen by most as a democratic progress, especially since it is increasingly a member of political parties and therefore has little or no opportunity to influence the nomination process. It's the games that, sovereignly through internal processes, determine who should be on their lists and in what order they should stand. That voters should be able to influence the order does not seem unreasonable, as an overall committee, in its own way, has expressed. Differences in opinion lie in whether we have sufficient knowledge and experience to formulate provisions on this now, or whether it would be appropriate to look at what experience we are making through the forthcoming county elections. It may be claimed that we have a long and solid experience with the system established for elections to local government, but it is important to point out the differences between this scheme and that established for elections to county councils. Firstly, the municipal parties can pre-cumulate a number of their candidates and thus to a relatively large extent ensure that their rapporteur candidate and other candidates who have a practical opportunity to undertake heavier tasks as committee leaders, etc., are actually elected. Secondly, the municipalities are less geographical units than the counties, and it would therefore not have the same consequence if the preferences of the voters led to a different geographical composition from what the lists initially do. It is true that, through their nomination processes, the batches endeavour to compile a list to ensure conditions such as sex, experience, renewal, geographical dissemination of candidates, a reasonable age range, etc. For the part of the county, this will include, inter alia: ensure that, as far as practicable, the list candidates will be distributed among the municipalities. With the system now in place for the county elections, this can be shifted in favour of municipalities with large population and at the expense of municipalities with smaller population. The gender balance does not have to be distorted at all, but there is a theoretical possibility, not because the voters do not want gender balance in different organs, but because the individual chooses will not be able to make these types of assessments when they give the candidates their additional votes. I think we'll serve to see what experience the upcoming county election brings. The majority of the Committee shall be composed as follows: ‘The decision requires the Government to review and evaluate the selection mechanism for the 2003 election and to assume that the outcome of the review is adequately promoted for the Grand total.’ Then we'll see about 8 pst. is the right key, whether arrangements should be made for those who support the list as it is to be given an opportunity to express it, whether the scheme has given an example of gender imbalance, and whether it is possible to find models that counter this, etc. At all, then we know more about this is a system that can be implemented by decision-making, and what consequences this will have. Another question that I would like to briefly address is what is referred to in the proposition as a citizens' initiative and referenda in the municipalities. These are not provisions to be included in the electoral law, as appropriate, but in the municipal law. The reason why the question arises in this context is that the Electoral Commission raised the questions in its investigation. The citizens’ initiative is understood as a scheme where a certain proportion of the inhabitants of the municipality or county – or a certain number – are proposed, respectively, with a minimum of 2 pst. by residents, or alternatively 300 in the municipality or 500 in the county – may require a case to be dealt with by local government or county councils respectively. Vote is a well-known concept, but there has to be a distinction between advisory and formal binding votes. There is currently no law or regulation that prevents referendums locally. Binding referenda, on the other hand, is not an experience in our representative democracy. It will raise a number of fundamental issues to put in place mechanisms in which decision-making powers are transferred to referendums. I do not think it would be right to reject local referendums as a possible element of a well-functioning democracy. However, if such arrangements are to be legislated, they should be sufficiently well-founded to allow decisions to be taken on the basis of a greater knowledge of possible consequences than I believe we have today. It is therefore set to ask the Government to address the issues and to provide the results of the investigation to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner. There has been a long and in some areas relatively demanding work to get all parts of this law in place, and the overall provisions of the Constitution have also required time and debate. It is important that there is a broad majority in the United Kingdom behind a law on elections and electoral systems, and that is it. In some areas, there are different attitudes to the speed of progress and different methods of progress can be chosen. However, this is a matter of very few questions, and it does not weaken the law as one of the most important instruments in our democratic constitution. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the members of the Committee for their wisdom and insight, and for helping to get all parts of this law in place. I also think I will mention their patience with the rapporteur, because the work has taken a very long time. Finally, I will refer to the second last note on page 11 of the option: ‘A second majority, the members of the Right, the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People’s Party, are in favour of the Government’s proposal to include provisions in the Municipal Act on Citizens’ Initiatives. This may be a positive measure to increase political commitment at local level, where citizens can put matters on the agenda.’ In case of an error, the Working Party fell out of this note. The working party shall be included there, and there shall be an overall committee behind this note.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e993	Through today’s consideration of the nomination of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to the new electoral law with regard to rules specific to elections to the Grand Duchy, we take the third and final stage in the process of giving the country a new electoral law. The legal framework for municipal and county elections was adopted in June one year ago. The necessary constitutional changes were adopted just a week ago, so now is the time to debate and adopt changes related to the major electoral law of the ordinary electoral law. A central reform proposal from the so-called Electoral Commission was to introduce a real opportunity for voters to influence who were actually elected. In addition to lot selection, voters should be given a certain opportunity to influence the personal choice. The government followed this up in its proposal, even though the so-called barrier limit in the Government’s proposal was raised from 5 to 8 p.m. Over decades, local election voters have had a significant opportunity to influence personal choice through the cumulation scheme or additional votes of individual candidates. This is a right that the voters experience as a naturally democratic right. The fact that there has not been an equivalent right for the voters in the county elections and the roll-call elections has, in my opinion, been a weakness in our democratic system. That is precisely why it was gratifying that a unanimous decision one year ago decided to introduce an element of personal choice also in the county elections. For the next county selection for the harvest, this shall be used for the first time. The only thing there was a slight disagreement about a year ago was whether the blockage limit for the choice of person should be set to 5 or 8 pst. The progress party wanted 5 pst. All the other parties, including the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, wanted a barrier limit of 8 pst. So, at that one year ago, the Progress Party went the long way in wanting an element of personal choice in the county elections. So far, all right. All of this was therefore the reason why the Storting would conclude by this crossroads that an element of personal choice should be introduced even in the case of rollover elections, not least because a unanimous committee ‘will underline the value of a most easily understandable electoral system and see it as a goal to ensure that the legislation is as uniform as possible for the different choices’. It is therefore nothing less than eye-catching – and quite revealing – that the same parties now, when it comes to electoral influence on the election of individuals in roll-call elections, have suddenly become terrified that the voters will have some real opportunity to influence who is actually elected to represent the population. Then you have to ask for the participation of the voters, while the same parties believe that such a right of choice is quite natural when it comes to the municipal and county elections. I have to ask why these parties believe it is important and right that the voters should have this opportunity in municipal and county elections, but not in big elections. It seems to me to be a rather unprincipled approach to an important issue. But then I have to add that after hearing the statements of the rapporteur, the representative of Mr. Engefretsen, there are some mitigating circumstances. In this way he justifies the position of the Workers' Party now by referring to the note on page 6 of the vote, ‘The Government requests a review and evaluation of the selection mechanism for the 2003 election and assumes that the outcome of the review will be promoted in an appropriate manner for the Grand Duchy.’;» I perceived the case rapporteur in his posts there that the Workers' Party was really quite positive about this with personal choice, but not right now, they would wait and see. That's a mitigating circumstance. Then there's hope in hanging strings. The only thing that was missing in relation to this remark I have just quoted is that it should have been that the review should have been promoted in an appropriate way for the Stortinget, and so that the necessary legislative changes can be promoted and adopted with effect for the forthcoming roll-out elections. Because there's more than enough time for it. On the basis of what is seen to be the impact of the new law on county elections, it will therefore be possible to evaluate, propose, debate and decide that an element of personal choice will also be introduced in the forthcoming general election in 2005. So I look forward to having both the proposal and the decision here in the Chamber about it, so that there is still hope in hanging strings. I believe that increased electoral influence on personal choice can have a positive effect on the relationship between the elected people and the people. Politicians will come closer to the individual electorate. This may in turn affect the attitudes of the voters and their behaviour. Furthermore, I believe that personal choice can help to increase political commitment and thus contribute to greater electoral participation. Over many years, there has been a trend towards an increasingly smaller proportion of the population being party members. It was also the case-rapporteur in his post. This means that fewer and fewer are involved in determining which candidates reach through the nomination processes of the parties. Without exception, I think we can say that for those cases where 8 pst. by voters would shift the order of a party list, this would mean that in these cases there would be a significantly greater number of voters involved in the election than is currently the case through the number of participants in the nomination processes of the lots. It is therefore difficult to argue that today's system is more democratic than the system we want to introduce. There's also reason to stress that an 8 pst. the barrier is a high threshold. The sceptics and opponents of introducing an element of personal choice by decision-making significantly overestimate the impact this will have, in terms of how many of the 165 representatives of the Stortinge would be elected to this scheme. Experience from Sweden, which has introduced such a system and used it through the last two parliamentary elections, shows that there is only a very small proportion of those who are actually elected, who are elected solely on the basis of the personal choice system. On behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, I address the proposal made in the vote on page 11. I would also like the representatives of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, if this proposal falls, to vote in a subsidiary way for the proposal of the Central Party which has been distributed in the Chamber and which I understand will be promoted later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1020	The representative Martin Engeset has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1023	The rapporteur had a very thorough examination of this matter and the matters dealt with by the Committee. I thank you for that. Like the case rapporteur, I want to confine myself to what is to be decided by Odelstinget today. One of the central issues that I heard from the representative Martin Engeset was about is the question of whether to increase the electoral influence on the selection of individuals also in the event of enlargement. As you know, it's opened for this at the county elections. The scheme proposed by the Government is intended to allow voters to vote in addition to some candidates on the list. A locking limit of 8 pst has been proposed. In the voters' consciousness, there is probably a clear distinction between local elections and decision-making when it comes to giving people the right to vote. It has been very common for the voters to have carried out accumulations and deletions, and it has also been such that there has been a great deal of impact in the decision-making process after the municipal elections. This has led to a very strong awareness – I think – among the voters of this possibility, and we also know, as said, that it has been widely practiced. When it comes to county elections and decision-making, there have traditionally been pure party elections. The provisions in the legislation on this matter have, in effect, made it absolutely impossible for voters to have any influence over the internal distribution of the list candidates after the election. When dealing specifically with the parts of the electoral law referred to in the county elections, it was decided that the system of voting persons should also be introduced at that administrative level. It will be applied to future county elections. Therefore, in the light of the opinion of the Progress Party, it may be reasonable to consider the effect of this before the adoption of a similar roll-out regime, where appropriate. The reason we've come to realize that we want to wait for it is that the question raises a number of important and completely fundamental issues. A particularly important question of principle in this context is whether the electorate is adequately aware of the possibility of granting votes to persons in order to call the scheme democratic. We have to remember that in 8 pst. of the voters of one list who have given an additional vote to one candidate, there are still 92 pst. of the voters of the same list who have not done so. You can therefore discuss to what extent the remaining 92 pst. by the voters of that list who actually had a conscious relationship with the ranking set up by the lot at the time of completion of the list. You can construct a hypothesis around this question: See that after the election, a party list qualifies for a single mandate in a state. 8 pst. of the votes of the additional voting rights of one person in the list – No. 3 on the list. 10 pst. the voters of the same list have had a deliberate relationship with the ranking set up by the lot but have thus had no possibility of marking it. In this case, the third candidate will come in, the first candidate will not come in. It is not, in my view, very democratic. Another important fundamental question in this context is whether such schemes are actually sensible at the wholesale level. There is no concealment that there is a clear distinction between local and national policies. Rikspolitik is much more marked by ideological divisions between parties than is the case for municipal policy. Local policy/municipal policy is much more personalised, especially in smaller municipalities — it may be based on acquaintances, positions in individual local issues, etc. And the county level will be somewhere in the middle of what this is about. I therefore believe that it makes sense to look at the effects of the county election before reconsidering the voting arrangements also in the event of a roll-out. One of the other very key areas in this case is what is called the citizens’ initiative. It is very gratifying that it now appears to be agreed that arrangements should be put in place to enable the citizens of individual municipalities to raise a problem and then require politicians to address that issue. 2 pst. by the residents may require this. It is a very positive measure that is being introduced. I think that it will definitely help to increase the interest in the individual's policies, and it will make it easier for citizens to engage in things that they will feel on the body in their community. As far as this is concerned with referendums, it is a well-known matter that we in the Progress Party are very strong supporters of this. We believe that referendums can help improve communication between voters/citizens and politicians in the period between elections. In many cases, there are very controversial political issues, and I think it makes sense to ask the voters for advice on what to think in these matters. If a local government is divided in the middle, it would be very sensible to ask the voters what to do with these questions that will affect the citizens. It is therefore regrettable that the majority is not in favour of strengthening the opportunities for local referenda. The Progress Party is in favour of referendums being adopted by one third of the members of the local council and of course the result of the vote being binding on the municipality. I am addressing the proposal that we have made, which is in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1044	The representative Henrik Red has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1047	The debate on what gives the main opportunity for democratic participation in referendums and the possibility of electoral influence on the elections could have been an interesting debate on a late note. But first of all, let me focus on some of the aspects of the proposal on personal choice as SV sees it. As referred to here, the majority of the committee says that an evaluation of this system is required after it has been tried by county elections. The representative Engeset was concerned that there was a diminution in the fact that it was heard as if the case-rapporteur, from the Workers' Party, could really well imagine introducing this system, when only one was evaluated. In that case, I must probably disappoint the representative Engeset in terms of the SV's view, for our starting point is that we do not, as we assess the situation per. today, wishes to introduce such a system. But that doesn't mean that it doesn't make sense to evaluate a new system of county elections. I think most people can agree on that. There are several different personal choices for the Stortinget and personal choices for the County Council. A simple example is the number of representatives coming from each list, compared to, for example, the number of representatives coming from each list. gender balance. The rapporteur was concerned that it is difficult for the voters to take full account of the composition of a list, simply because the voters are not presented to the list as it is if everyone makes the changes to which it is subject. The selectors only know what changes they make to the list, they don't see the list as it is. In county elections, where a party may have ten or more representatives – or five, at least more than two representatives – I believe that gender balance, balance between different regions of the county, etc. will be much easier to take care of in combination with a mild element of personal choice than with a large-scale choice where there will be a large number of fewer representatives selected from each list. In addition, SV considers that there is a risk that the media impact will be very central to the choice of individuals, especially in relation to population. We also fear that in the counties of one large city and many rural communities around it can get a sharp fight between different regions in the counties, to the extent that it is possible to get more food than it is today. So the question of personal choice will improve participation in decision-making. I don't think so. On the other hand, I believe that the type of referendums that are being drafted, first investigated in relation to the local level by the majority of the committee, can be a kind of grip that might be interesting in terms of increasing political commitment. The model of the majority of the Committee, inter alia: in relation to such an investigation, a model is one in which citizens themselves can put a case on the agenda, not only through citizens’ initiatives, which are now being introduced, but also where citizens can ask for a referendum to express their views. I see that we need more thorough investigation before we conclude in relation to this. But I have to say that the experiences you have, for example. have done so in the municipality of Nesodden, where such a system has been tried – not a binding referendum, but the ability of a people to give politicians a clear expression of their opinion when they want to – is a system that I think can contribute much better to engagement than, for example, the fact that they have. the introduction of personal choices for the roll-out option. Then there is also a dilemma in all personal choices – even in the personal choices we already have in relation to local government today, on which the representative Red was involved – that it per. at present, it is not possible for voters who wish to express their support for the list as initially established to do so. For example, some researchers – Ottar Hellevik – have shown figures from some local government elections that have been carried out in Norwegian municipalities, where it has actually been that the proportion who wanted to support the list as it was drawn up from the party and who have believed they have done so by providing a list without changes has been roughly equal to the proportion that has corrected the lists. Then it becomes a question of what is really democratic, if we have a large proportion of voters who believe that they vote on the list as it is, who are not allowed to express their views. There is also a moment that we from SV will try to follow further when we get new evaluations of personal choice models back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1066	The most controversial parts of the electoral system were, as you know, decided by the constitutional changes we dealt with last week. What remains of discussions is the question of the choice of personal choice – i.e. the order of the list. About a year ago, we introduced this for the county election, and from the Christian People's Party's side, we are also prepared to introduce this by the magnificence choice, even when it comes to ourselves. The whole committee sees both the benefits and the disadvantages of introducing such a system and indicates that it is uncertain how such a system will turn out. The requirement for an extension of the right of the selector to influence the personal choice should have real consequences is that many voters benefit from the right to cumulate. If the system is used only by a small but conscious minority, this minority will in reality have a disproportionate and low democratic impact on who is elected. It will then be very important for the electoral authorities to inform thoroughly about the new regime, so that it will be used by many. The members of the Committee of the Right and the Christian People's Party have shown that the proposal to open up personal elections also in the event of enlargement has the background that this is a well-established system when it comes to municipal elections. The voters regard this system as a democratic, self-evident right. In 2002, the Storting decided to introduce the election of a person also in county elections. On the basis of this, the Christian People's Party finds that it is natural for one to give the selections the corresponding side effect even in the case of a shopping choice. I expect that for the voters, it will seem confusing – at least something strange – if one does not give the corresponding ability to influence the selection of the person in the case of a shopping option, as in the case of other options. The Christian People's Party further believes that a barrier limit of 8 p.m. to influence the choice of person is a relatively high threshold. There may be questions about the extent to which the political parties can count their nomination processes as more democratic than that over 8 pst. by the selection of a party wants a different order than the nomination meeting. We therefore agree with the Government's proposal when it applies to the voters' influence on their personal choice. From the Christian People's Party's side, we have also evaluated the models where the number of person voices would have a limit, for example. a maximum of three person voices per person. chooser - or at most one person per person. chooser, as in Sweden. Such a limit would have reduced the possible negative aspects of the social security scheme. However, since such proposals have not gained particular prominence from the other parties, we have chosen to stand by the original proposal, as it came from the Government. Subsidiary, the Christian People's Party will vote for proposal No. 3, so it's possible to give a person a voice. Of course, we will also vote subsidiaryly for the plural proposal to ask the Government to go through and evaluate the impact of personal selection in the county elections. We then assume that the government will come back with revised proposals for a recruitment scheme in the event of the roll-out election, after the 2003 elections have been evaluated. If the government is working quickly on the evaluation, it is not yet too late to make changes that may apply from the 2005 elections. I must say that I am amazed at the fear of choice that seems to be behind the pluralist attitude in this matter. In particular, I wonder about the Progress Party, which otherwise speaks for the most possible influence of choice and e.g. binding referendums. Some of the same thoughts I've made about SV. The Labour Party and SV have indicated that they will have a more detailed statement on binding referendums. We do not see the need for that today. In the Christian People's Party we believe that in that area we know enough to take a fundamental position on this question. Let me mention a few examples from my own municipality of residence, Tustna. There we've had one referendum – and now we're going to have the other. We had a referendum on the petrochemical industry in 1977. They in the county council pointed out an area in our municipality, and if so, we had a referendum. 60 pst. answer yes, but there were other things that caused the recommendation not to be implemented. In these days, the municipality negotiates with the neighbouring municipality of Aure about a municipal merger. Following the initiative of the two municipalities, public services are to be carried out in connection with the municipal and county elections of the autumn. This is how we see that local folklore can actually work well. Although such an outrage is not formally binding, it is something that one first goes out and asks for the people's advice, and then does not follow that advice. Things are almost always part of a larger picture, often with economic priorities. However, there is a need for policy-makers to take responsibility for this health, even when the population is creating economically costly solutions. Policy is to prioritize and set something else. We're going to choose the politicians to do that. The public vote must be advisory. We are in favour of the Government's proposal to take decisions on community initiatives. This may be a positive measure to increase political engagement at local level, where citizens can see issues on the agenda that concern them. We politicians should not be able, whether locally, to stop raising a case if a large part of the population wants it to be recorded. Within a period of six months, it should be possible to consider a case. I look forward to the government coming back to Stortinget with a law code to get to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1100	It's going to be line change. The President would suggest that the replacement of a cord is limited to up to three lines – and sees it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1105	The representative Auchan says and is right, I think, that if 8 pst. Of those who cast their votes, it actually crosses for one candidate, it's a little heavier, a little more democratic – or what you might think – than the party's nominations. This could probably be right. I don't have any rhetorical points or anything like that that I'm going to try to get out here, but I'm actually really curious to get the Augian's assessment of: what about the 92 pst. that do not make any changes to the list? Where are they in this democratic approach? That's one of the problems that we've been having a little bit of trouble finding a solution to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1112	The scheduled time for the evening meeting is now over. The President, however, proposes that the meeting continue until today's map has been completed. - It's taken for granted. In this case, Modulf Augnan should be given the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1118	The main point of introducing such a system must be to get interested in elections, in order to participate in the selection of candidates, whether for local government, for county councils, or for big ones. To achieve that, I said in my post that it is important that the electoral authorities do a thorough information work in advance of a choice. That is why there is a danger, as the representative of the UK says, that there will be a small minority participating. It is therefore very important that we, as active politicians, as well as the electoral powers, make this known, because it is clear that the possibility – I believe at least – of getting more involved is present by introducing such a scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1123	The representative, Mr. Zugan, made some reflections on the reason for introducing personal elections to the county council, and it seems strange that we, when we introduced personal elections to the county council because of the concern for equal arrangements, do not want it to be for the county council. I just want to clarify first that for the SV, it was not the case that there were similar mechanisms of electoral influence on the personal choice that were crucial to us wanting to introduce such a system into county elections. If that had been the most decisive consideration, we should perhaps consider selecting the same scheme as at the municipal elections. I don't share Mr. Augan's fear that this will be terribly confusing for the voters. My impression is that the voters are actually able to deal with today's arrangements in an excellent way. I don't see that we create any greater confusion than what we do per person. today, so I think that Mr. Augan's thoughts that SV has a select fear are put in a slightly strange light of his own fears.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1132	In fact, it seemed to me that allowing electoral power in municipal elections – and especially in county elections – but failing to do so in decision making is a little strange. We all have the starting point that we're going to get the most possible picks to the urns, so they're going to be actively involved in selecting the populace. This is clearly an important step in that direction, as I see it. I think that this will actually lead to a greater interest in, among other things. decide who will represent the selections in the different counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1137	No more words have been asked for a line. The President will propose that those who draw on the list of speakers should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's taken for granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1142	The centre party is not represented in the control and constitution committee and has therefore not had the opportunity to make its views known in the configuration. I'm just going to comment on one point. The choice suggested that the selection should be made more accessible to the selection selector. The selection proposal is that if a candidate is checked for at least 5 pst, the position on the selection list will be changed. of the Valley Lists. The rule follows this, but increases the requirement to 8 pst. The Central Party agrees with the Government to strengthen the influence of the individual selector by using a drop-down list as well. We disagree, however, that each electorate should be able to vote for as many candidates as he or she wants. You may select who is not affected by the nomination meeting. I remember the work that was done in the nomination work to ensure some consideration for, for example. geography, sex, age and occupation. We want to give the voters extra influence, but we think that the government party's proposal can actually mean that rather small action groups have the possibility to decide all the representatives of a party from the constituency. I would like to make a proposal No. 3, which means that, in the event of a roll-call election, the voters may vote for one candidate on the ballot. It does so by putting a tag at the candidate's name. This proposal has already been tried in Sweden. So a chooser has the ability to check with one - and only one - person voice. The first attempt was made by the Parliamentary elections in 1998. 30 pst. the selectors will then be able to vote. Last year, the volume went down to 26 pst. In 1998, 87 out of 349 seats were elected. Last year, the number was 86. It means that a large part of these representatives would have been selected the same thing because of the position they had on the lists. The party of progress is often a figure for a side effect in the form of population polls and in the form of a different influence from the voters. It surprises us that today they are in charge of the Workers' Party and SV to reject the possibility of impact in case of collapse. So now they have the possibility of a much softer proposal than what was going on in the committee. The election committee's proposal and the model from the Government are so far only tried in 2000 in Bosnia-Herzegovina. The central party's proposal, which therefore met the request for a selection influence, has been tried by two choices in Sweden. Let me finally do the right thing for the Center Party's second position. We want to vote in favour of parts of proposal No. 1, from the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, that part of the proposal applies to § 11-5, and I ask that the vote be put up like this. We are voting against proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, and we are therefore voting against the vote on the proposal for the first paragraph of Section 7-2 and the alternative proposal from the Right and the Christian People's Party, because we have a proposal of our own. We also vote against the vote on our proposal for § 11-5.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1164	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1167	We in the Left are very pleased with the change both in the Constitution and in the election law. We really think this is going in the right direction, and that we are going far in a democratic direction too, although we also have to repeat that we think it is stupid that we should not be allowed to do anything about the barrier limit in this round – not for the Left, but because democracy in this Chamber is such that some representatives have 16 000 votes behind, while others have 50,000 votes behind. It is very positive that 19 equalization mandates are given, which give a more democratic distribution to those who are above the barrier. With regard to the issues to be resolved here today, we in the Left will support the proposals of the Right and Christian People's Party on personal choice, which was also the Government's attitude. And in the Elections Committee, the Left joined for election influence on personal choice also to the Stortinget. I really think it's very disappointing that a majority today don't dare agree to it. A threshold of 8 pst. is reasonably high, and one should not fear the freedom of voters to influence personal choices for Stortinget. The working party presents it as if inter-communities are much smaller than in constituencies for large-scale options. With my knowledge of crossroads within municipalities, that's not right. And when the parties weaken in numbers, as they do now, it's the task of the parties to open up in the nomination, but also in relation to personal choice. If there's fear of building originals – or fear of their own place here – I think we might get a more boring policy if we don't let them into politics as well. Then the gender argument is used very strongly here, and it's suddenly more applicable here than in other types of choices. I think today the parties have nominations separately without looking at what kind of people the other parties have nominated at the top. And when we know that the Storting doesn't let in so many people from each list, and that very often there's only one from each party on some county benches, the gender argument falls away. It's actually like today that if only one person is elected, then there's a lot of the party that decides, and the party has not included the gender aspects in their assessment when they choose the first candidate. I think it's a little silly that we big-time politicians think it's okay for voters to decide when it comes to other politicians, but not so good that they should decide when it comes to us. The Left further supports the Workers’ Party’s proposal and the SV’s proposal to address issues related to local referendums. We will always consider proposals that can extend democracy and increase commitment, but without setting aside the principles of representative democracy. The boundaries here are important and they need to be discussed in depth. The left would like that debate to be taken on the basis of such an explanation. Democracy is constantly challenged and shaped, and if we put our voting rights in a historical perspective, it is clear that among those who currently have the right to vote, the level of education, knowledge, the level of information and the level of insight are dramatically higher than when our voting rights were introduced. People who today say that citizens are not engaged in political issues have never tried to lay down a school, try to take from some trick or make other arrests in relation to their city or their village. I think the popular commitment is very big, but it's not always that you feel like you're getting out of it. I think that more active use of referendums would have taken on that commitment in a more positive way. We in the Left want to vote in favour of that proposal. In line with the Right and Christian People's Party, we want to vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Central Party on personal elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1188	It's dangerous when there's 30 minutes at your disposal. I'll try to get a little bit more in brief and just say something about a few points in the setting and something more about one point. Firstly, the Committee asks us to carry out an evaluation of the electoral system. I can inform Stortinget that we have already started that work. There are committed researchers at the Rokkansenteret in Bergen for a project to evaluate both the number of votes cast and the consequences for its representativeness. They will also look at a slightly longer-term trend, how it affects the personal choice systems, the parties and the nomination process, and how personal choice affects the relationship between candidates and voters. Unfortunately, on the proposal now before us, these researchers will have a smaller research project because they will not be able to research schemes related to how it works in relation to the Storting, which could be an exciting part of it. Another important issue is that the Committee asks us to come back to the Stortinget with a review of and an investigation relating to who will deal with complaints by decision-making before the new enlargement decides the complaints with final effect. We may think that it is strange that we should have a different system here than we have in complaints relating to the local elections. The reasoning might have been that we should have had the same arrangements if we're going to conduct such an investigation. However, if one is to rely on the arguments in the setting, it may also be natural for such a scheme to be linked to the Stortinget and not to any other government-related body. We have to take this into account in the process, and perhaps some of this work should be continued in relation to how the Storting itself thinks they should work on it. So to the matter that has been discussed the most. I have to admit that, like anyone else in this room, I actually find it rather disappointing that what was one of the main acts of the election law commission, that is to say, giving the voters more influence, during the processes that have been in Stortinget, means that there is no more influence. You get something more on the shelves. There is no question of whether there has been any more influence with the changes made in relation to local elections, and there has been no more influence in relation to the Storting. I agree with the representative, Trine Skei Grande, that it may seem easier to give voters influence on politicians than on ourselves in this house. I think it would have been natural if we had implemented this and seen what consequences this could have. I have been a warm follower of doing this after I heard a dedicated post from a young woman who became a representative of Gothenburg for the Swedish People's Party, who told me what she was experiencing. It was so that she might have come in anyway. It wasn't safe, but she came in because of the voices. She also made it clear that she felt that she had a different type of mandate from her electors than she would have had if she had a mandate only by the party bosses, as she called them, that is, by the nomination committee internally. She felt it was a popular anchor for her mandate. I don't think we should forget that it might be important in the future to give more popular anchor to the individual people who sit and make up the political class in Norway. It gives a greater distribution of power between individuals and central party management. It can have a meaning in that direction. It could be that someone doesn't like it to be, that it should be so that the lots decide everything. But at least I have a sacred conviction that the human beings chosen for the Storing also have meaning as human beings – who they are, what they are, what they stand for, and not just to define the programs of their own parties. Therefore, it is also important for voters to have an opportunity to influence who comes and who represents. It is such that we are the only country in Europe that does not have a single element of personal choice for our Parliament. Then it's a little strange that it's perceived as such a big experiment that we're going to do it, when all the other countries live with, well to notice, different electoral arrangements and systems and it seems that it's an important part. Nor is it natural for it to become less women's representation. The entire parliamentary system and elections in Finland are based on personal choice. They have turned Norway's record into a record of women in their parliament in the mid-1990s. It's entered 44 pst. women in the Finnish Parliament, despite the fact that all women are engaged in personal election campaigns in that country to secure their mandates. It may also give a greater degree of legitimacy to use the personal arguments in a political election campaign. I don't think it would have been dangerous either if there had been a little more focus on what media attention you created, what feedback you got, and that you had a larger circle. I have an example that I think you should think about. Firstly, I think we all agree that the parties have too few members. We should all have had more. We should have had a larger overall exposure, but fewer and fewer are involved in nomination processes. There is a smaller and smaller basis for those participating. If we go back to 1993 and Akershus Christian People's Party, there were two distinguished candidates, Dagfinn Høybräten and Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, who tried to be elected to Stortinget from Akershus. The first place on the list was decided by lottery because there was an equal number who had voted for both candidates. There I really think you could leave it up to the Christian People's Party's voters in Akershu to take that balance instead of turning heads and coins or using lottery, which was the result. I am concerned that it will mean something in political life. I think we underestimate our own ability to influence as politicians, and the importance of who comes to the Storting, not just which parties, by not going in to make elements of personal choice. I also think that the danger that people won't realize that they have to cross if they support the first candidate of a party is not big. It's going to explain to the voters that they're going to do it. Then you're going to get more people to cross, and from the Swedish system we just see that in the large number of people who have been elected with personal choice, the main weight of those who have been chosen has actually been the first and second candidates on the lists, who might have come in otherwise. It's actually the top candidates who also get the crosses and the support from the voters. Sometimes it may also be good for political individuals to experience that they are receiving that support from the electorate, that it is not just the party system that provides that support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1214	In a chronicle in the Newspaper on Monday, Hallvard Hill found it strange that the Progress Party, which is in favour of referendums, at least in all cases where the party believes it can have a majority, is today going to sabotage a democratization of the electoral system that would give voters increased influence over the election of individuals in the event of a roll-call election. There's no reason to wonder. A party management that is not even willing to give its own members the right to influence personal choices, of course, will not give influence to anything as unstable as voters. Prior to the final election, the National Government of the Advance Party decided who would be the first to appear on the lists of the party in Oslo and Hordaland. The normal thing in any other party is that it's the members of the counties who set up the lists. The Governing Council then decided to refuse a number of candidates from the Election Committee to the highest places in Oslo to stand for election, so that they could be replaced by candidates who liked the party leadership better. The management of the party thus cancelled the results of 22 nomination meetings in the Oslo Districts. At an early stage of the nomination process, the Progress Party organised courses for the chairmen of the nomination committees. The 19 leaders came together and were trained for a whole weekend in how to nominate. So you can safely say that in the Progress Party you do things thoroughly! Carl I. Hagen gave lectures and used the opportunity to make personal contact with the head of the nomination committee in the Vest-Agder Progress Party, who was asked to remove the former staging representative Vidar Kleppe from the staging list. Later, the party leader of the Progress Party decided to remove Vidar Kleppe from the list top, where he was placed by a majority of the members in his county at a legally called nomination meeting, arranged to dot and dot according to the statutes of the party. It goes without saying that a party leader who has no respect for fundamental democratic values, and who is not even willing to give influence to his own members, but who believes that the party leadership and the county leaders are right to decide who should be on the list first, nor is willing to give influence to the voters. After all, it would be pointless for a party government to decide who should first appear on a roll-out list, if the voters would then be able to destroy everything by placing no. 3 on the list in front of no. 1st@item: inlistbox The influence and control of the party management would then disappear. A politician like Carl I. Hagen, who doesn't even respect his own membership democracy, can't be expected to respect the voters either. The representative, Henrik Red, had an argument such as: it was considered that it would not be certain that the voters were aware of the new scheme. He feared that the majority would be unaware of his newfound freedom, which would thus only be used by a minority. Either this is an incredibly demeaning attitude towards the voters and their intelligence, or it's a staggering attitude for an even more demeaning attitude toward the voters and their intelligence that the party leadership knows best, the party knows best, and that the voters are not competent to choose. With the party leadership that the party has, it may not be so surprising that the party in this way makes itself a spokesman for such an enlightened world. That's sad, because Norway really needed an electoral reform. It is in a way unworthy that we should be one of the few countries in Europe, perhaps the only one, in the East and West, who do not dare to give the voters influence over the elections. The very best solution would have been that of Finland and Poland, where all voters have to vote on a person on their party list. Had the Centre Party changed its proposal for ‘should’ instead of ‘may’, we had actually implemented such a scheme that would prevent any small group from exploiting the possibilities and scheme. The proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party is therefore far from good enough and gives voters far from the freedom they have in many other countries. But it's at least a start that absolutely should not have been sabotaged by the socialists in cooperation with the strongly centralist Progress Party. I am convinced that the voters want the freedom they now do not have. It's important for all of us, in what unfortunately becomes a minority, to tell the voters that it's because of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1235	First, a little heart attack: it may not be of the utmost interest, but I'm really in favour of a electoral system where each voice counts equally, where we have a higher barrier limit and a smaller size. That's why I think it's a cross-thinking that every time we adjust the electoral law, the Magnitude gets bigger and bigger. But the Storting has said about this at the vote on 26 May, so this is nothing more than a heart attack. But the Electoral Commission did not investigate this, and it is a weakness in the entire investigation that what I mentioned first, was actually not assessed. The representative, Martin Engeset, experienced ‘synthetic circumstances’ after hearing the statements by the President of the case concerning the electoral influence on the choice of persons. I'm going to now contribute to saying that I represent those thoughts, which I also know there are many of them in the Right. My concerns about the electoral influence on personal choice are that I believe it is the task of the parties to ensure a balance between different groups, geographical areas and gender on the lists. With the proposed electoral influence of the Government, the influence of the parties is reduced and their task is limited only to selecting potential candidates for the Grand Duchy. Another aspect is the possibility of individual groups being able to ‘coup’ all candidates on a list. For example, a country with strong population concentration in one area, but which has otherwise spread its population, risks representing only the population. Another factor is that in good organisation, only yes-people to the EU or only no-people to the EU can be elected from a country. I'm not going to fall for the temptation to say anything more exactly about this. Another fact is that by crossing or by cumulating, we know from municipal elections that men get more crosses and cumulations from the voters than women and youth. By just 8 pst. of the voters may change the candidate order, a risk of fewer women and young people on the Stortinget. There's actually a difference between the Finnish system and what the government is proposing. And last but not least, I also see the danger that the focus on individual candidates can lead to increased focus on getting funds to run their own election campaigns against other candidates on their own list. In Finland, each representative spends approximately NOK 100 000 in his personal election campaign. It's money they have to get for themselves. I don't know if it's right in the Norwegian lightning to fight for the favor of the voters by focusing on me as a person, on individuals, and by getting the focus away from the political struggle over the issues between the parties. These are my concerns. They may not be completely invincible when we see the results of the county election, but it remains to be seen. Maybe in the longer term we should also consider the system of one-man circuits, if we first have to open up a campaign between people and for real electoral influence? For the time being, I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1251	I had intended to make a little visit to the Advancement Party, but the representative Jan Simonsen's posts largely superfluous. But I'll say a little bit. The Progress Party was in its time a liberalist party with emphasis on the individual, the differences between them, and their different characteristics, abilities and facilities – good right values, good bourgeois values from a right party as was the Progress Party in its time. In this house there are 165 representatives. Everyone is different in good and bad, has different abilities and facilities to make use of and get through cases. I think it is to have little faith in the voters to believe that they are actually unable to assess that each of us in here are different, have different characteristics, different abilities and facilities and actually have different quality in getting matters through. They should be given the opportunity to influence the order of the lists. I actually think so well about the voters that I think they're able to choose on the basis of this and not just show and spectacle. I notice an argument that has not been used here today, and it's that the media controls so much, it's just the'medians' – with respect to reporting – that has the opportunity to come forward. I think it's an explanation. It is actually possible to use the old method, for example: talk with some picker, travel around, give a good impression, act like a similar guy or lady and get through things. Then I actually think you can get 8 pst. voters, regardless of the size of the county, to hear about you at least, or to have met you. It's possible it's naive, but I think it's actually possible if you just take that time, if you like. is not very often on TV. The assumption for a changed order is that 8 pst. by the voters of a lot, candidate c appears to be more suitable than a. At Akershus, for example, it would. meant that I must have had 6,400 votes to move up the line. The registered members of the county party are significantly fewer. The nomination meeting is even smaller, and the nomination committee is so narrow that there is almost nothing left. My question then, a control question, is: To what extent are the nomination processes representative? And another control question: when the nomination committees and meetings have done their job, are we sitting here, a cross-section of the population of Norway besides being of different sex, being from different geographical parts of a state and having more or less well-developed agendas in some nomination processes? I have a claim that the public in the hall get a little bit off, and that's that we're a cross-section in many ways of inbreeding in political parties, buying and having drunk enough coffee cups with the right people in the party elite in the party we're a member of. The parties are no longer the political workshops and community builders they were, and we're not good enough to get enough people. We're just getting a little bit less representative. It's very good to sit here at Stortinget. There's a lot of people who've been here for many years, I'm sure. I also think so, but it's also very good to get out of here. What you're discovering is that there's a lot more diversity among ordinary people out there than among the 165 in here, even though we've been in happy layers and on comms. There's actually a much greater diversity out there than what I experience in here. Lars Roar Langslet said in 1993 – I don't know if he used that exact expression, but it could have been tempting to use – that after 1993, the ‘stopping layer’ was sitting here, and he thought it had become much less representative. It could symbolize something. To what extent are we in the league with the voters? To what extent are we in contact with the voters, and to what extent are we representative of their positions and opinions? Once you've walked in the halls, you'll quickly discover that those out there and we who are sitting in here aren't necessarily quite in agreement with each other. So to an argument that hasn't been used here today, but has been used during the process, and that's that different size of the county has been used as an argument against personal choice. If it's a small state, it's going to have to vote less to move forward in line. But to the underlying argument, it is well to say that there is not so much statistical basis that suggests that the incidence of kverulants, special cases of the very most, and generally considerate voters are very much higher in small states than in larger ones. But it is possible that some representatives have their own experience. I'm not gonna wonder about that. Otherwise, like the representative Engeset, I am happy that the Workers' Party will consider looking at the effect of county elections. There was an opening to come back with support for proposals for changes to the electoral law that could take effect from the next major elections, for example. It turned out that the county election worked perfectly well, and that a lot of people got involved. The problem with the experience of the county election is that it's probably not a single one, it was perhaps to take a little hard in, but very few, who know who's state politicians. And then maybe the comparison and the basis of experience, what you can draw out of it, is going to be relatively slim. In the case of county representatives in my own country, Akershus, there is hardly any person who knows where the county council is, and then you can't expect them to know who the county representatives are. But I think quite a few more actually know who are the big business representatives from the county. All of them, most of them have brought with them. Otherwise, the representative was Red in on that 8 pst. will be allowed to speak, versus 92 pst, which has not spoken. But without personal choice, it's 99.99 pst. which has not at all expressed its opinion on the meaning of the lots. When you're concerned with the small steps in the right direction, like when you're looking at them. I want to say 8 pst. possibility is a step in the right direction. There is a need to increase the number of personal choices. Otherwise, the representative Red was also aware that there were larger ideological dividing lines here. As far as the Progress Party is concerned, my experience is not necessarily that the ideological dividing lines are much clearer in here. I would rather say that many local representatives from the Progress Party are considerably more concerned about their being a liberalist party and are trying to come up with liberalist solutions to political issues. Finally, I think it is also sad and quite perceptive that the Progress Party as the great champion of the referendum – it is important to have things put out for a referendum, it is important that local politicians should be able to compete with each other to enter the local government – is, and that is the only thing left, against personal choice, because in this house you have to have monopoly on the position of candidates. I think that's reasonably special and perhaps in principle notable from the Progress Party. But I'm, like the representative Jan Simonsen, not particularly surprised.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1274	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1277	I had the pleasure of hearing the representative Jan Simonsen use himself over internal relations in the Progress Party and threw out claims that Carl I. Hagen, the party leader of the Progress Party, has no respect for the members of the Progress Party. I think that if Jan Simonsen has a personal face to the Advancement Party or Carl I. Hagen in particular, you should choose a different arena than the Greatness's pulpit. Maybe you could rather act as a musician or participate in the entertainment magazine on TV. It could be a better arena. With regard to the number of representatives who have expressed some surprise that the Progress Party in this round has called for the non-introduction of votes in rollcall elections, I recall what I said in my previous post. It's like, in people's opinion, there's a marked distinction between what's a big choice and what's a municipal choice. It has been a practice that in municipal elections there have been personal choices, and in major elections there have been party elections. So it's very important that the system that's introduced is used, because otherwise you can get into situations that I tried to quote a hypothesis earlier, that you risk that 8 pst. of those who vote on the list, a candidate may be selected, while perhaps 10 pst. by the others who have voted on the same list, requested no. 1 on Stortinget. Then you have a situation where a minority has given priority to the majority, and that's a situation that at least you can't call democratic. The progress party has not closed the door for this with the personal choice of the staging option, at all, not at all, but we want to look at the effects of the county election. When it comes to relations with voters in general, some of which have been involved, I recall our proposal where we clearly say that the Progress Party wants to introduce binding referendums. So you have to ask the voters between the choices about what they think about concrete things. It must be much more democratic than having an opinion about the people who are going to the Stortinget or not. Then you will be allowed to comment on specific issues that politicians will have to deal with afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1286	No, I'm not running a personal turn against the Progress Party or members of the management. I'm just pointing to very relevant contexts. When a party allows the national board to decide who is to be placed first on the list, thereby removing the influence of its members in drawing up the lists, it cannot be expected that they will be willing to have the lists drawn up by the voters and to decide who will be first in the list. It will remove the influence of party management. I want to mention another thing that I think is a very important argument for an electoral reform. I believe that an electoral reform that allows voters to decide on personal choice to a greater extent than today will make political life cleaner. We who have been through some nomination processes know that it's often based on rumors, gossip, slander, that it doesn't always happen the way it should. In addition, it is important to abstain from party traps, to have a personal circle of friends and associations within the party and not with people outside the party, to drink a lot of coffee with party traps if you are a member of the Christian People's Party, to whisky if you are a member of the Right Party, or to burn at home if you are a member of the Advance Party. Although this might be a little bit funny formulated, there's a core of truth in it. But the important thing is, if it doesn't matter that much anymore if you're in the first place or if you're in the first place or if you're in the second place. 10, it won't be so important to talk negatively about competitors in the party either. The competition you get about the favor of voters when the election campaign is going on will be completely different, clean and positive, because then you have to show your best side to the voters. Then you have to show that you're good at writing journalisms, that you're good at giving lectures, that you're on the campaign, and you're traveling around a lot, just show up in a way that makes the voters think of the person as a worthy representative of big business. So I am absolutely convinced that the more democratic the electoral system becomes, the more influence voters have on the elections, the cleaner the nomination processes of the political parties become, and I don't think it's just in the Progress Party there are things going on that shouldn't have happened during a nomination process.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1293	I'm just going to ask a specific question to the representative Red. It is a small calculation and a small question for the example that was used by the representative Red instead. The question is, if 10 pst. e.g. the party leader wants strong, while 8 pst. Request No. 3 – which of them is chosen first?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1298	Henrik Rød gets the word for a short comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1301	I will admit that I did not get all the details in the representative's question. But what's the essence of my point is at least the following: If 8 pst. by those who vote on a list, cross at candidate no. 3 and 10 pst. of the other 92 pst. estimates that when they submit the list as it stands, the candidate is no. 1 they vote on, then you have a problem with that candidate no. 3 will be elected, even if the majority of those who voted on the list wanted no. 1st@item: inlistbox It is the essence of the message that I tried to convey instead – if there were any ambiguities around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1306	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 759]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1322	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 765]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1338	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 766]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1351	The odelsting shall then be added to the case No. 1 to 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1358	In the course of the debate, 20 proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1-3 and 20, from Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 4-19, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that child supplements are provided in addition to the introduction benefit, as in the case of day-to-day unemployment benefits.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, says: «The government is asked to reduce the requirement for dependable income in the event of family reunification to 2G.» Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government is asked by the Danish model to draw up a manual for newly arrived refugees and immigrants with an introduction to the basic norms, values and institutions of the Norwegian society.’ Proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit legislative amendments so that permanent residence permits are granted only after 7 years of legal residence in the country. Persons who have made a significant effort to integrate may, upon application, be allowed permanent residence after 5 years of legal residence.» Proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to introduce requirements before granting a permanent residence permit, such as: having been in work for at least three of the last five years, showing a strong link with the Norwegian community, not having received public support for the last three years, having passed Norwegian testing, not having committed serious criminal offences or having outstanding liabilities to the public.’ Proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for amending the law on the requirement to stay for at least 10 years, from the day of the granting of a residence permit for the granting of Norwegian citizenship.’;» Proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative amendments so that persons who have been sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for one year or more may not have Norwegian citizenship.’ Proposal No. 9, from the Party of Advancement, reads: ‘The government asks the Government to submit legislative amendments to ensure that persons sentenced to an unconditional one-year prison sentence, after an end of their term of office, must start for a further 10 years in order to obtain Norwegian citizenship.’ Proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to allow applicants for Norwegian citizenship to refer to documented Norwegian knowledge and knowledge of Norwegian culture, social conditions and Norwegian labour standards.’ Proposal No. 11, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative amendments so that persons who have certain types of debt to the public cannot obtain citizenship until such debt has been paid.’ Proposal No. 12, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative amendments so that applicants for Norwegian citizenship have to make promises of allegiance and loyalty to Norway and Norwegian legislation.’ Proposal No. 13, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amending the law on the 24-year family reunification limit with spouse.’ Proposal No. 14, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for amending the law on own-dwelling requirements as a precondition for family reunification.’ Proposal No. 15, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amending the law on the introduction of family reunification capacity and deposit.’ Proposal No. 16, from the Progress Party, sounds. ‘The decision asks the Government to submit legislative amendments prohibiting the marriage of cousins and cousins.’ Proposal No. 17, from the Progress Party, sounds. ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to give family reunification only to spouses and children under the age of 18’. Proposal No. 18, from the Party of Advancement, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to achieve family reunification in the country with which it has the largest overall connection.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1511	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they are moving towards the second paragraph of Section 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1538	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have warned that they're going to the fourth term.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1614	Paragraph 6, second paragraph, contains an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 19, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 6 shall be replaced by the following:The plan shall contain at least the start and phase of the programme and an indication of the measures taken in the programme. The plan shall also include en-route standard tests and a final examination.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1662	Paragraph 8, second and third paragraphs, contains an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 19, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 8 shall be replaced by the following:For participation in programmes, the annual benefit is equal to the social assistance standard. Participants under the age of 25 receive 80 pst. the third paragraph of Section 8 of the Social Welfare Code is replaced by the following:Members may, on their own initiative, regulate the level of social benefit according to the performance of the individual in the programme following tests in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 6 of the Act, except as provided for in the first and second subparagraphs of Section 8 of the Act.’ We're going to vote for the first term.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1688	The President will vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the third paragraph of Article 8 shall be replaced by the following:The Community may allow participants under the age of 25 to receive full introduction aid if specific conditions so require.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1907	The President will vote on proposal No. 20, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The new last sentence of the second paragraph of Section 4-11 of the Act on Social Security shall be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1976	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e1986	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e2022	The President would draw attention to the fact that the rapporteur has addressed proposal E to read as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all participants in the introduction programme are entitled to be assessed for the housing support of the Husbank as of 1 September 2003.’» In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee, corrected by E, will be to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e2034	During the debate Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward a proposal which was included in the vote on page 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e2050	The President will first vote on the whole proposal by the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Foreign Affairs Act shall be amended as follows:Article 29, first paragraph, new points (f) and (g) shall be replaced by the following:(f) where an administrative authority of a country participating in the Schengen cooperation has taken a final decision on the expulsion or expulsion of the foreigner on grounds of public policy or national security.(g) where necessary for reasons of public policy or national security. The proposal for a new point (f) of the first paragraph of Section 29 of Section 29 becomes a new point (h) of the first paragraph of Section 29 where an administrative authority of a country participating in the Schengen cooperation has taken a final decision on the expulsion or expulsion of the foreigner on grounds of public policy or national security.e) when necessary for reasons of public policy or national security. It is a condition that there are concrete points of view that the foreigner intends to commit such acts in the territory of a Schengen country.§ 30, new point (f) shall be replaced by:f) where an administrative authority of a country participating in the Schengen cooperation has taken a final decision on the expulsion or expulsion of the foreigner due to non-compliance with the provisions of the country concerning the entry or residence of foreigners.§ 30, third paragraph shall be replaced by:Rejection in accordance with points (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of the second subparagraph shall not be decided if, taking into account the seriousness of the relationship and the relationship of the foreigner with the State, it would be a disproportionate measure to the foreigner himself or to the nearest family members.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e2146	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e2156	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e2201	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e2214	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Progress Party to oppose it here too.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e2228	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e2317	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e2327	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e2334	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Martin Engeset on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Henrik Rød, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No 3, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e2579	There are two different proposals here. That is proposal No. 3 by the Centre Party, and proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The President will first vote on the proposal from the Right and the Christian People's Party and then, alternatively, between the vote and the proposal from the Central Party. The proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party reads: ‘The election law shall be amended as follows:Article 7-2 new first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: The voter may, in all elections, voter shall vote in one vote. [[1]] This shall be done by affixing a mark to the name of the candidate.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e2602	The vote will then be taken as an alternative between the vote and the proposal of the Central Party. The proposal from the Centre Party reads as follows: ‘In the Election Act, the following provision is added: § 7-2 new first paragraph is replaced by the following: The voter may vote one candidate on the ballot. [[1]] This is done by making a mark by the name of the candidate.The present first, second and third paragraphs become the second, third and fourth paragraphs.’ The right, Christian People's Party and the left have announced that they support the proposal of the Central Party subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e2801	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘11-5 shall be replaced by the following:§ 11-5 Membership of candidates for regional mandates in the event of enlargement When it is decided how many district mandates a electoral list should have, the county electoral board shall allocate those candidates to the list. [[1]] Candidates who are not eligible are excluded. Candidates on the list who have achieved a personal number of votes of at least eight per cent of the total number of votes in the list shall be ranked according to the number of personal votes received. [[2]] The remaining candidates will be selected on the basis of their order in the list. [[3]] Each list shall be assigned, as far as possible, as many alternates as it receives representatives, with the addition of three. The candidates for the alternate seats shall be allocated in the same way as the representatives referred to in the second subparagraph.’;» The Central Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e3000	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Local Government Act amends the Chapter heading of the proposed Chapter 6A of the Local Government Act – The Citizens’ Initiative is replaced by the following:Chapter 6A-6B Resident Initiative/People’s Votes’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e3049	The President will vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘New § 39b shall be replaced by the following: If one third of the members of the local council wish to add a question for political discussion to the referendum, this shall be done. The outcome of the referendum is binding on further political treatment in the municipality.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e3066	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e3076	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e3099	B, C and D shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e3141	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e3151	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e3667	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e3677	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04-lower-2.ana.ud1172e3688	There is no record.
