ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e28	The representative, André Kukkestad, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e36	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e41	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e46	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meetings this week. The representative of May Britt Vihovde will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e51	On behalf of the representative Trine Skei Grande and myself, I would like to suggest that the Stortinget mentions a commission to assess the conditions and developments of local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e56	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Then the President has the pleasure to announce that a delegation from the Bosnia-Herzegovina Parliament, consisting of all the presidents of both houses, is today initiating an official visit to the Grand Duchy and is present at the Gestival Gallery. We welcome the guests from Bosnia-Herzegovina and look forward to a useful and pleasant visit. Welcome!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e81	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Odd Einar City Council Hilde Frafjord Johnson Council Børge Brende The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Sylvia Brustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e100	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. Climate change and pollution are changing Norwegian nature. There is growth in algae on trees, the nesting season for birds starts earlier than before, and we see that there is a lot of weather – rain, wind and flood – to mention some examples. Climate problems are one of our greatest challenges. We have to bring down emissions, and we have to cooperate with other countries to get it done. Therefore, it was important that Norway acceded to the Kyoto Agreement. The more surprising and alarming it was that our prime minister recently questioned whether Norway would meet the Kyoto targets. My question is: Does the Minister for the Environment think that Norway should stand by those commitments, or does the Minister for the Environment support the Prime Minister, who has said that Norway is not sure that it is doing so?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e109	It is clear that Norway accepts its international obligations under the Kyoto Protocol. The daily newspaper has published something different to the Prime Minister, based on an interview with two environmental organisations that had attended a meeting of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has also stated to the Newspaper that Norway is a country on which we are going to have tougher commitments after the first commitment period attached to the Kyoto Protocol, i.e. after 2012. It is right that the representative, Mr Brustad, is also concerned that what we are now seeing of tougher weather – this year there was a drought and heat wave in Europe, last year there were floods – is something we will see more of in the years to come if we do not manage to stop the dramatic climate change that is currently taking place. We can't prove that this has something to do with climate change, this tougher one has been in Europe, and the brown cloud over Asia. But what the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change states is that the type of weather is much more if climate change becomes as IPCC says it can be, in the worst case, that climate change can change by between 1.4 and 5.8 oC over the next hundred years. Since the last ice age, for approx. 10,000 to 15,000 years ago, maybe the temperature of the earth has changed by 6 to 8 oC, so in a hundred years we can change almost as much as we've done in this long period. Therefore, the Government is very concerned that we in Norway should fulfil our obligations through national measures combined with the use of the so-called Kyoto mechanisms, which were a clear prerequisite, and which are also a prerequisite for developing countries to be willing to assume an additional obligation after 2012 and for Russia to ratify.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e116	I am pleased that the Minister for the Environment is abrogating the doubt that the Prime Minister really sowed in the statements he had, among other things. in the newspaper – and I do not see that the Prime Minister has swept away that doubt – because it is vital that we make progress towards our commitments and that we stand by our commitments. And it's huge challenges. The Labour Party has promoted a number of proposals in the UK to which the Government has so far refused, for example: electrification of our base, i.e. replacing the gaseous power stations that are standing around on the oil platforms in the North Sea with gas power stations that do not pollute much. The Government has not yet applauded this. We have also called for considerable more money to be spent on researching and developing new technologies, including those related to this, and a number of other proposals. My question is then: When does the Government come up with a message about how we are going to follow up on these challenges and follow up on what the Storting treats in connection with the climate communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e123	It is a little difficult to claim that the Prime Minister has expressed himself unclearly in the newspaper, as he has not actually spoken. It was based on someone who had heard a post from him. What he said when he was actually interviewed in the Newspaper was that there is no doubt that Norway should fulfil its international obligations in relation to the Kyoto Protocol. Now, of course, there is some doubt as to whether the Kyoto Protocol will actually come into force, but that is because, for example, the Kyoto Protocol will come into force. The United States, which is responsible for 25 pst. of all greenhouse gases in the world, have declared themselves and that Russia is now on the verge. What the government has done, and as many governments have done in recent years, is in Norway implementing the toughest set of climate policy instruments I think any country has ever done. We were almost first out with the CO2 tax, and we have disregarded the highest CO2 tax. This has led to emissions being 20 pst. lower than they would have been without this. We are implementing a conversion of waste policy, which is also important in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e130	It will be follow-up questions – Synnove Konglevoll.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e133	I think it is positive that the Minister for the Environment now clearly states that Norway should follow up its commitments in the period 2008-2012. I am also pleased that he mentions the CO2 tax as an instrument, an instrument introduced by the Workers' Party, but for the time being it seems that it is very slow to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. My question is, what kind of concrete instruments will the Government now take in the coming years to actually bring down emissions? That is our challenge today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e140	Of course, it is good that it is positive that I establish something that is quite a natural thing, namely that Norway should fulfil its international obligations under the Kyoto Protocol. There has never been any doubt about it, and there will be no doubt about it. In the case of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, they went down by 2.5 pst last year, so now we are 5 pst. Over the level we had in 1990. Last year's decline is due to the fact that we have economically tough times, and a change in magnesium production. As far as the CO2 tax is concerned, it was as far as I remember the government Syse with Finance Minister Skauge who promoted this, but I am not going to take up any race with the Workers' Party about who is the best at introducing taxes and taxes in this way. But in relation to concrete measures, I am working on the follow-up to this climate communication that we have promoted. Among other things, we're going to introduce a national quota system for the process industry, which stands for 30 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e149	Ingvild Vaggen Malvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e153	I am pleased that both the State Council of Brende and Prime Minister Bondevik in a letter to SV confirm that the Government is on the Kyoto agreement, thereby also confirming the climate cooperation that the Government has had with SV, and the climate agreement that we have entered into. A good advice from one who has experience is that one should not listen so much to the Workers' Party in climate policy – even if it happens that a blind hen finds a grain. However, the climate agreement means that the measures needed to reduce emissions must be taken. And then the question is, is the construction of gas power plants and the Government's gas power policy in line with Norwegian climate policy? If the gas power plants for which the Government establishes the concessions are to be built, should private cars be banned, or should the Norwegian process industry be shut down? If gas power plants are realised, what will be the result in relation to the climate objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e160	Of course, it is a paradox that our greenhouse gas emissions are increasing as we now export gas to Europe instead of coal. At least coal emits twice as much CO2 as the Norwegian gas. But we will then solve this problem of implementing national measures at the lowest possible cost. Nevertheless, we know that implementing a reduction in Norway is much tougher, because we have based our electricity production 100 pst. on renewable energy, hydropower. We do not have coal-fired power stations that we can shut down, and we already have the toughest instruments – probably worldwide – in relation to greenhouse gas emissions. We know that e.g. investing in upgrading a coal-fired power plant in Botswana costs one sixth of what it means and involves implementing a corresponding reduction in Norway. It's just as good for the climate. That is why I think we also need to state that we are going to take important steps at home, but at the same time we need to use the Kyoto mechanisms, which were a precondition for ratification, and for it to become part of the Kyoto Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e165	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e168	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. It's about the government's view of the issue of criminal care in relation to mental health protection, where I think the government sometimes seems to be somewhat modest in expressing where it actually stands. Unfortunately, it is a fact today that people with mental problems commit a great deal of crime, they are a problem for some ‘common’ people. We have known people like Celina Midelfart and others, who are terrorized by people who have put their love on them, and there are also ordinary people who are exposed to this. We have a police force that uses a lot of resources to transport people between psychiatric institutions and prisons. They use their resources for it, and that can't be in line with what we want. In a letter to me, the Minister of Justice said that it should not be the case that people with mental illness have a free ticket to commit extensive or atrocious crimes. And then the question is, what does the minister actually intend to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e177	The representative addresses an important but difficult relationship, the relationship between criminal law and health — psychiatry and mental disorders — in other words, the relationship between criminal law and, in this specific case, as I understand the representative, mental health protection. I perceive that the representative on this issue addresses the issues where people are not affected by what we call criminal law special reactions. What has happened in this area – and that is quite right, one should not have a free ticket to commit extensive or painful crimes – is that the Riksadvokat has stressed in a separate circular that in such cases, the prosecution authority must be satisfied that the offender is really unreliable before the case is settled. And that's the way the Riksadvokat has marked, that a psychosis diagnosis itself is not sufficient, at least not in more extensive and annoying situations. The representative and I know about such situations – they are mentioned in public. The national lawyer emphasises that a judicial psychiatric investigation should be sought even if the offences themselves cannot give rise to a special reaction, so that at least there is a guarantee that punishment is not used. This area is located in the border between health and justice. There have been contacts between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice in this area. It will be intensified, and I have said in response to Mr Ellingen’s representative in relation to specific criminal law reactions – and I will repeat this here – that I will take steps to ensure that the investigation that normally takes place after a certain period of time will take place earlier. It is simply because the frontier zone – what we will call grey zone problems – should not live its own lives. I share the representative's commitment. Even if it's hard, we get to go into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e188	I thank you for the answer so far. I look forward to getting more «speed» – to use such a concept – on this, because this is a challenge. We have people who suffer daily because of this. I had the last Friday ‘joy’ of visiting a lady who has been terrorized for four years. The police say they're powerless. They transport him from a to b – and send him back again. Then we have a system that doesn't work well enough. The Minister of Justice has also stated that he is concerned with intelligent punishment and intelligent responses. Then I assume that he also thinks about the victim's role in this, which some of us have missed the emphasis on in such cases. Once again, I record what the Minister of Justice says, that he will consider accelerating this. Is it the case that the Minister of Justice will consider whether today's special reactions are good enough? Or does he just imagine a continuation of today's order?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e197	I am absolutely sure that the representative, Mr Ellingen, and I fully agree that we need to react intelligently. We are e.g. agree that it is good to ‘snow’ a teenager before he becomes 15 and criminal. And so it is that even though the Ministry of Justice gradually covers about most of the conditions of human life, it does not cover all the departments. It is a challenge for all elected people, including those who have trust on behalf of the Norwegian people as the Council of State – which I have – to enter the grey zones, even if it may be that you refuse to do so. This I have said that I will actively do. I've done it in terms of childhood and juvenile delinquency, I've done it in terms of people who are addicts, and I'm going to do it in this area. I'm familiar with the police's, in my opinion, patient and wise efforts in society for people who really need psychiatric help, where the police must be transport services. I myself have been in situations in Trondheim where the police have had such jobs, and where solutions have been found after a while. So the representative has my word that I have an involvement in it, and then, with the intensity I have, I get to dig through the problem, even if it will take some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e209	There will be follow-up questions – Anne Helen Rui.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e212	I am very pleased that the Dørum Council has an involvement in this matter, because there is no doubt that much of the violence, the crime and the abuse that is taking place in our society is being committed by people with mental problems. We are in the middle of a phase-out of the psychiatry plan, while Norway around now appears to be cutting health care businesses within the psychiatry. The next moment we see that the police are getting the problems – with the transport. My question is then: Does the Minister of Justice intend to do some concrete action within the Government to get more money into the psychiatry – or perhaps the police are doing another job? In any case, there must be some concrete grip on the grey zone that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e221	The representative Rui and I probably share the reality that very often the police are in practice the lucky day continuous service in Norway that serves as a social apparatus. It's the side of Norwegian social reality that the representative addresses to me. As far as I remember, the government, through its psychiatry efforts in another department area, has made a significant increase of 700 million. kr, in the budget for the following year. I note that many people must stand in line, and that is the way they are, for example. are in the same system as those on the outside. I have a commitment to it, and what I do as a member of the government – and here the representative gets me responsible – is then expressed through the Ministry of Health budget. What I'm doing in addition, is trying to fight down the grey zones. To put it another way: I am doing my part because the health care system acts with the lowest possible doorstep to those who are not always considered the most teachers among us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e228	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e232	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. The Green Everyday Environment Organisation, through the ‘Puls’ programme, revealed that cosmetic products and baby care products contain the environmental poison parabens. This is a poison that can interfere with the hormonal balance in humans. Five years ago, we had a similar case. Then it was revealed that plastic children's bodies contained the environmental toxin phthalate, which is a plasticiser. At that time the Government chose to ban phthalates for use in children's play. My question is: Will the Council of State Børge Burnde take the initiative – as a starting point in any case – to prohibit the use of environmentally hazardous parabens in all care products intended for children?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e241	I also found out in various media that a special product contains additives that may have negative effects on children. I examined the matter. It is a matter that is mainly covered by the health authorities, but I have also asked the State pollution authorities to contact the appropriate health authorities to review the information that Green Everyday has provided here. When it's done, I want to have a conversation with the Minister of Health. We will look at the report that has come from the current Directorates. We take seriously the report that Green Everyday has presented, but of course I'm dependent on getting the government's professional authorities to review it, because there are serious claims in relation to a very large and a lot of used cosmetics brand. Even I know it. If you have had small children, I guess that's what you've been using. In relation to phthalates, as the representative Sørensen mentions, the State pollution control authorities have had different controls in recent years and have actually revealed that this substance is still used in a number of plastic toys for children. I think it is good that the state's pollution authorities give priority to this matter, that they have controls and are hard on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e250	I thank the Council of State for taking the problem seriously. We who have been working on pollutants over a certain period of time know that the only thing we can say with certainty is that in five years' time we will have a new surprise in connection with a new group of substances if we do not manage to take any new action – including internationally – in the field of chemicals policy. There are hundreds of thousands of different chemicals on the market and today it is the authorities, environmental organisations or professional bodies that have to prove that a substance is dangerous before it can be banned. That's what the Council of State now describes in relation to parabens, that is, the burden of proof lies with the authorities. It should have been the opposite. It should have been the company that has to prove that a product or substance is harmless. I hope that the Council of State can take part in a wide-ranging review of chemicals policy and make sure that Norway can become a leading country in turning the burden of proof.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e259	In the big news that I presented to the Biggest in our country about the state of the environment, and that the Biggest is about to deal with, we've outlined a tougher national chemical policy, and we've also shown what the Government is doing internationally in order to bring dangerous chemicals to life. It is true, as the representative Sørensen states, that there are more than 50,000 chemicals on the market, and many of them we do not know the long-term health effects of. Therefore, the precautionary principle should be followed. This is why the European Commission has also recently presented a proposal for a much tougher EU chemicals policy, the REACH system. There is now a tough discussion in the EU about this, because we must not forget that chemicals are also important in relation to our modern society – many companies are concerned about a bureaucratic system. But the main lines of this tougher chemical policy now also support the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e266	There will be follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e269	We in SV are happy that the government will look at this specific matter that has come up. There is also no doubt that there is a need to strengthen regulatory control in these areas. I sometimes wonder how many weights in chemistry and biology you need to dry to go to the store, and to dry to give something to your children or to your grandchildren. Our political responsibility and our political commitment must be to set these standards and ensure the control that must be there, because the individual consumer has no chance of reading to all the specifications of a product. That's the one. The second is: the minister was asked by the representative Sørensen whether he agreed in principle that there must be a reverse burden of proof. It didn't answer, so I'm going to challenge the state council again: isn't it reasonable, with the very amount of chemical substances and the problems associated with this, that there is the reverse burden of proof?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e278	I don't disagree that there are many chemicals out there that we don't know the long-term health consequences of. At the same time, we have a responsibility as politicians to establish that we in Norway have very good control, we have a good apparatus in this area. If you were to read the newspapers every day about what you can't eat and what you can't use, etc., you could be really worried. It is not possible to follow all the instructions that come and that are based on media lookups. We have a system in Norway with professional authorities that have a strong responsibility in relation to notifying of products and substances to be banned. I put in the big message e.g. to prohibit two chemicals, such as brominated flame retardants, which may have some of the same effects as the pollutant PCBs. When it comes to the question of a consistently reversed burden of proof, it hasn't been raised against me before. What I've been busy about is having a strict chemical policy. We get to get back to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e287	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e290	I feel that the study that was conducted by Green Everyday shows two things. One is that it may not be as simple as the Council of State says, that we have professional authorities that prohibit what is dangerous – for hormone inhibitors exist, and they are found in care products for young children. The second study shows that there are good alternatives. It is completely possible to produce the kind of products without these hormone inhibitors that this is about. In working with dangerous chemicals, I think it would have been an advantage if you could have separated these so-called hormones that affect the hormone balance, and that also accumulate, especially to children. Isn't it a possible way to go here that we ban substances that are so-called hormone inhibitors, that we definitely ban it in all products targeted at children, because it could affect their health in a long-term perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e297	When a newspaper headline says that an environmental organisation such as Green Everyday claims that a very used cosmetic product for children contains substances that are environmentally harmful, I should contact the professional authorities. In this area, the Minister of Health is primarily responsible, but I have also examined the matter. We will then receive a report from our trade union directorates. I think we have to wait for it. We also owe it to those who produce this. We can't call wolf, wolf without first figuring out what the situation is. In the case of hazardous chemicals, we have tightened the national chemicals policy in the Stortinget biggest report. Among other things, we have now decided to ban two substances that are so far permitted, such as: used to reduce the fire risk in relation to textiles and so on. In the case of hormone inhibitors in general, we have them under surveillance. We also have a very strict policy towards them. It is well mentioned in this big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e304	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e308	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. Everyone in this room is concerned about maximising the use of police resources. However, the centre party does not understand that major units and centralisation must be the answer. In many parts of the country, a merger was now being investigated. For example, a halve is proposed in Rome. This triggers reactions, not because you're not open to change, but because all experience suggests that centralization is offering people poorer offers, in this case that the police don't get as visible and don't have as good a local overview as people actually want. So it's quite possible to think of cooperation across the lumbar districts, without aggregation. Development of peak and competence development may take place across the board. My question is quite simply: what is the position of the Minister of Justice on the merger of the Länsmannskontoret?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e317	I'm starting from what happened to the policing of the police reform a few years ago. Here the representative Haga and I stood together to believe that there were too few police districts. We lost that. But what was clearly in the position at the time in Stortinget was that when you had to go into phase 2 of the reform, that is, what is going on in the offices around the districts, you shouldn't reduce the number of posts you had to keep them. And when it comes to the question of what kind of districts you're going to have, I'm open to a process, given that it's professionally thoughtful and locally wise. But I'm probably mainly concerned with finding administrative coordination, so that someone does a job that not everyone has to do. And we know – throughout Norway – that you can do it. In Sogn and Fjordane, for example, there has been vigilance cooperation for many years, long before the police reform. In the most unsafe strokes you get it done. You don't always get it in more risky ways. It's culture that's being put here. I have also made it quite clear in the budget proposal that no matter how this is now being reorganised, so that you get the advantage of someone taking administrative responsibility, you get a good understanding and trust in the terms of the "member's office" and the "lensman's man". Understanding psychology, which is part of the basic trust in politics, is crucial. That's what I wrote in the budget proposal, and I'm on it. This process is now taking place in the police, in close contact between police organisations and in contact with the communities concerned, and will eventually come to the ministry and be assessed on the basis of the principles presented in the budget proposal. But let me give you one example, from something that happens locally. Karlsøy Municipal Council asks for an association between Karlsøy County Council and Tromsø Police Station, and we expect the elected council to be present to assess this. But I'm not going to decide on the details. I would like to see it as a whole, based on the thinking I have now outlined to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e324	I guess it's hardly a matter of public opinion, but it's the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e327	The fear of the Center Party is that we are in front of a two-stage rocket. First, the number of offices is reduced, and then the number of posts is reduced, also as a result of the scarcity of resources. The losers are the periphery, whether we're talking about central strokes, or we're talking about District Norway. The merger process takes place in our opinion to an excessive degree of silence. In practice, officers and police officers are assigned a mouth basket. That means that we do not get that professionalism into the debate that would have been desirable either. My follow-up question to the Council of State will then be: what will the Council of State do to contribute to greater transparency in an area that means a great deal to people in everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e336	The openness of the principles is outlined in the budget proposal. There are also local debates. Last night I was visiting the Gudbrandsdal police district, where you operate on two models: Can you create other farms, or should you do something else with the farms you have? It is important to have an open process, open discussion, and an approach that is not concluded, because you simply have to find out what is wise, and how the whole starting point is – to say the public – that it should not be that the parish priest becomes the last civil servant or woman present in a community. At least I'm supposed to help the police get there. There is also another aspect mentioned in the budget: I am in favour of civil justice on the ground plane remaining with the namsman. This means that the posts associated with the police, which are related to the community, need to be strengthened to understand that Norway is a country that is different. If there are large snow squatters in winter and poor breakage, you won't come out even if you can drive a long way by car, in summer time. I have it as a starting point and realize that the country is so complex.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e343	There will be follow-up questions – Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e346	I'm surprised that the Council of State minimizes the commitment and debates that are now taking place in the country. I have here a list of signatures from Liabygga on Sunnmøre, I have a newspaper clipping from Suldalspost about a dictionary that will fight against a merger of the Tanners' Offices in Saudi and Suldal, and there are many other examples. The reason is what is now going on in the follow-up to the police reform, phase 2. It's about security in everyday life, in town and in the countryside. It is about strengthening the prevention work, about strengthening the clarification of criminal acts, not about weakening it. Who is it that will finally conclude? Is it the responsible councillor, or is he now letting these processes go their own way and wash his hands?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e355	First of all, I'm not minimizing this. There has been a very open debate on this before the previous local elections of the autumn. Many have participated in it, including the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, precisely because we listen and understand that police matters are more than mechanics. I used in my previous reply to the representative Åslaug Haga example that Norway is different. I mean it, I understand it, and it is so that it is the security that is absolutely crucial. That's what's fundamental. And I deliberately used the terms ‘lensman’ and ‘lensman’s office’, which are incorporated in Norway, because Norway looks different. One place in Norway you can put on a tight-clothed police prune, to put it like this. Somewhere else in Norway, you can have a back-up service. The country is different, and I'm prepared to capture it, and it's not the police profession that's crucial, it's a political discretion. It comes to the Ministry of Justice, it comes to me, and it doesn't end up in the Police Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e362	Knut Storberget – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e365	One of the prerequisites and one of the main premises of the police reform was that the police should get closer to the citizens, that they should lift their heads a little, away from the trial period and the percentage of clarification, and that the proximity to both the lieutenant and the police officer was crucial in relation to people's sense of security. That is why it was with pleasure that we were able to record that the State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice in the election campaign went out and peaced the Länsmann offices and at least said that they should not be laid down without the municipal consent or the consent of those who live in the district. Is that a guarantee that the Minister of Justice is standing by? And the Minister of Justice will also take action in relation to the officers' offices and police stations that are now closing the doors at noon. 16 and refers both victims of violence and other vulnerable citizens to places further away, through ringing bell activity? Will the Minister of Justice do something to reopen the police stations that today actually offer much worse service than what has been done in the last 20-30 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e374	The police reform, with the wisdom underlying my handling of this matter, was presented by the government of Stoltenberg and dealt with in Stortinget. It says you shouldn't leave places of employment, and it's very clear that you need to be close to people. The representative of Dørum, who was not then Minister of Justice, was very careful to promise great results of the reform. I have done my utmost to follow up on what the majority of the population at the time, that is, to move people in the police, from moving on paper to having contact with people – what we call active police service, that is. either to be out there or to follow up a case inside. And if that process hadn't happened, we'd have lost people in the police. A fifth holiday week alone would take 200 years, so this process has been redispatched approximately. 1,260 posts, I think, and 414 are made available to people through active police. There is, of course, the same number of people present in the police force, as well as an increase in budgets from 1998 until now, with a significant framework. So I'm concerned that we are now going to evaluate the reform, and evaluate also means learning from the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e382	We are going to the next main question, which is from Knut Storberget, who is already standing there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e385	Now I should have actually picked up my memory note, but I think I remember it anyway. We are faced with a situation in relation to the criminal justice breach that is very serious. One out of five winning crimes in this country is solved. We are facing a situation where 4,600 criminal cases are pending for treatment in Norwegian courts. And finally, we know that the housing queue in Norway has grown by nearly 70 pst. Since Dørum became Minister of Justice in 2001, and now there are 2,800 people in that line. This means that we are facing a criminal justice system that is largely ineffective. My question to the Minister of Justice is, What is the reason why the government's fight against crime fails?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e394	That's a very rhetorical question, but I'm going to stick to a more sober tone in the answer. It's like politics also inherits something from others, but I'm not going to let that inheritance become a significant point. It is true that the reconciliation queue has increased. Therefore, the offer has also increased in the case of settlements. From 2002, including next year's budget and including previous redundancies, which I understand the representative Storberget has previously proposed, it has increased by a total of 396 places. It corresponds to Trondheim Prison and the prisons Ullersmo and Ilseng, and it's just because it's unworthy that we don't increase the settlement capacity. In the 2003 budget, the courts were strengthened. They have a tighter budget this year. That's quite right, but we've also stressed using the confessional discount that the Stortinget has put up, but that's too little used in what was called interrogation in the old days, but that's now the questionable part of the District Court. Especially in Oslo, where there has been a considerable effort to get rid of cows in courts, I see that this by resolving a case through interrogation lies lower than elsewhere in the country. This is why it has set up broad administrative cooperation between prosecution authorities, police, courts and criminal justice to see how to streamline cases and ensure that cases are better addressed. We will also look at how civil proceedings can be better developed in the context of the reform of the dispute, and there is one matter in the Committee on Legal Affairs that goes on the appeals in such a context. In fact, in criminal law cases in the courts, they have fallen into the courts from 2002 to the first six months of 2003. So the sum of these measures is there. In the case of the police, it is quite right that there is a low percentage of the clearance of the winning crimes, because they amount to approx. half of all crimes. Many of them have no knowledge of perpetrators or tracks, but the police are taught through police reform, among other things. by collecting information on the location of events, and in this context, in Oslo Centre, the effectiveness of the fight against handkerchief, which is important because of the cooperation with the sectors where this is often taking place, including: restaurants.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e409	What worries me about this debate, and the crisis we really have in the whole chain of criminal law, is that the United Kingdom, the Ministry of Justice and the actors in criminal policy, have just pointed to criminal law as an important area for solving the challenges we face in terms of combating crime. Then, in many ways, you do not follow up on providing sufficient funds or tools to get away with the tool that has been pointed out in many ways. And it's no wonder that people lose confidence in such a system, where a 17-year-old may have to wait a year and a half to get the case settled, and then he'll wait two years to get the zone. Then he has become an adult man, who perhaps, fortunately, has managed well – or perhaps it has gone badly. Does the Minister of Justice now see the need for entirely different measures than those announced in 2001, 2002 and 2003, all the time when all these queues are actually increasing, that we are now actually dependent on broader measures, and much more aggressive measures, in relation to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e418	The representative of Storberget and I have previously been in debate where we have agreed to think about other measures – let me put it this way: it is a point to be hard on crime, but intelligent in the responses to the criminals. This is why we are concerned with measures based on the simple recognition that a 10-year-old is easier than a 15-year-old and a 15-year-old is easier than a 19-year-old. That's why we've had a system of youth contracts that has given positive results and that we're going to go on. We are introducing increased use of conflict councils, which I know produce results, and we are seeing a happy development in the use of community sanctions. It's not a goal to let people in. The goal is to stop people who are losing their foot party. In the past, the size has been commendable and well discussed by the Government on how to work together, among other things. to ensure that children and young people do not enter this system. The representative of Storberget is also aware through the budget that we are investigating a drug court scheme so that drug addicts who would otherwise have a conditional judgment are not allowed to come into contact with the prison system. We have to think alternately. So: Reconciliation cows can be shortened by not getting there, and this can be done by increasing the capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e425	There will be three follow-up questions – first Anne Helen Rui.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e428	As an example of the fact that the criminal chain is closely linked, I can tell you that in the police district of East Finland, they were very good at revealing an international major fraud involving new Mercedes cars on the border between Norway and Russia. But when they were to have the people they arrested, they had to keep them in custody in Oslo, in Trondheim, in Bodø, in Tromsø, and in Vadsø. It cost this police district over 1 million. kr. – the whole thing has cost them over 2 million. kr. Then my question is, when we see such a statement that we now have queues for prisons – what are we really going to do? Because this is going to be a problem in every police district. We've also been in police districts that don't dare start, because they saw that they had seven criminals they had to take, but actually didn't have enough cells to take care of all seven. What do we do, Councillor?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e437	Firstly, I am well acquainted with the police district in East Finland's excellent efforts to pick up stolen Mercedess on the way through Eastern Europe, transported by cynical, organized criminals, and I agree with the rose given by the representative of it. It is such that it was not only Harald Haarfachre who gathered Norway to one kingdom, Fengsels-Norway is also one kingdom. That means we use the capacity where it is, and it's possible to move people from Hedmark and Hamar to Vadsø because you need a cell to a person who is violent, you can move prisoners elsewhere. What we do in next year's budget are several things, but one of the steps we take is to suggest that those who have a verdict of less than 90 days, and those who have a verdict of more than 90 days, should be released five and ten days in advance, given that they meet the conditions of parole. Then we get access to cell capacity. We also stage the mobile prison, the element prison, which the representative can study in Tromsø, which has a very good quality internally. It can be set up in an excellent way, and we put it within existing ring walls different places in the country, duly presented in the budget proposal. The country is to be seen as a whole, including the settlements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e448	The most intelligent reaction of them all is that there's at all a reaction, and that it's coming very quickly. What we are now seeing is that both the courts, the police and the criminal services are warning us that the reactions will be delayed in the future than they have now, because of a very tight budget, which also suffers from the fact that the budgets have been pushed over a longer period of time. I have now been involved in three budgets, and the settlement queues have increased every single time. The answer is partial use of duplication, which we know is not a very intelligent solution if you want to change within the prison walls. My question to the Council of State is therefore: will the Council of State be involved in a task where we are trying to find completely different and radical approaches, e.g. by: to convert some of the sentences into sentences that have been in line for a long time, so that we can get a quick response? It's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e455	This Council of States has now been involved in moving money in support of criminal justice in the 2003 budget, such as: The representative of Thorkildsen and the representative of Storberget have been appointed, and this is also done in the budget for 2004. There is a significant increase in the budget – 8.2 pst. At the same time, Mr Thorkildsen and I share the view that we can react earlier. But when people are in a queue, they are in that line – it will be terminated, but we can make sure it is not filled up. Then the social penalty becomes important, then the youth contract becomes important, then the conflict agency becomes important, because in those contexts we all know that results are being obtained. We have received good examples of this through this local election campaign. It's young people who say that it's completely elated that you're stopping me now, before I get crazy in my head. Fine, then we'll have to take care of it. But the police can't do it alone, they have to do it with other wise people, whether it's in school or elsewhere. When the police get a case, there are often many others who have seen something in the past, and these have to look together.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e462	I am often fascinated by the capacity of the Minister of Justice to describe the situation. It's not that often I know myself in it, but that he has an ambition to be reasonable, I'll let him be honored for that. It's a paradox for me when he's talking again about the possibilities of reconciliation queues and reductions, and he's doing it, among other things. by introducing an additional penalty discount into the system. It is such that the Storting should be representative of those who are outside this house, and then I assume that there should be a certain connection and understanding when we communicate from here out. I believe that ordinary people out there are struggling to understand closed political chambers, closed police stations – which the representative Storberget was in. Does the Minister of Justice think that people will understand that you are now opening up even greater penalties, or is it that most people are wrong, and that it is the Minister of Justice who has a correct description of reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e472	No, no one alone has a proper description of reality, so the police reform will have to be evaluated in 2004. Then it has to be evaluated so that we can learn both from what we've done well and from what we can improve. Evaluation is learning for absolutely everyone, including government councils. In the case of the housing queue, it was approx. 7 000 at the beginning of the 1990s, now it's 2,800. A number of active measures have been taken to reduce it. I thought the representative would give me great recognition for the moveable prison, the prison that can be studied in Tromsø, to the full enthusiasm of all. On the inside it is very good, it can be set up and can take advantage of the existing infrastructure. When the question comes about reconciliation queues, I think people will agree that there is no point in sitting and waiting, if we can make sure that we bring him in more quickly, against anyone who fulfils the parole conditions being released five days before by a 90-day sentence and ten days before if there is a sentence of more than 90 days. I think people have a practical sense that it is a tool that can help as a temporary instrument, but not as a solid instrument. At least that's how I think about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e481	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e484	I want to ask a question to the Development Minister. The Prime Minister said in the throne debate that the Government would renew the fight against unemployment, and that this was a main concern of the Cooperation Government. In the light of these opinions and the recognition that parts of the Norwegian industry, not least along the coast, are struggling, will the Council of State reconsider its position on tied food aid and help the Norwegian fisheries processing industry to continue to contract for the supply of food as emergency aid and assistance, thus avoiding redundancies and closure of important jobs in Coast Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e491	An important principle in Norwegian development policy and in Norwegian aid policy has been to get rid of an old, poor system that involves binding aid to the purchase of Norwegian goods and services. In other words, the money doesn't come unless we deliver the goods. We have a long experience that this is poor assistance, and it is more expensive assistance. In other words, it is wasteful aid. That it is worse, that is, that you do not get good enough results out there, and more expensive means that you get an estimated 20-25 pst. increase in expenditure, because there is no international competition for supplies. This is why our general policy is that, like most like-minded donor countries — at least in all MUL countries, and many other countries — we want to end the commitment of aid. This also includes, in our assessment, the food area, i.e. the World Food Programme. Now I have not brought any valuation of either the goods or the supplies, to which the representative is aiming, I am aiming for the general policy. However, we also believe that it is important for the World Food Programme itself to choose which products you want to use at what time, to decide for yourself where the goods should come from, and to decide for yourself who to deliver, without Norway being the leader of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e498	Thanks for the answer. As far as the principle of the binding of goods and services is concerned, I share the views of the Council of State far away. Now this food was particularly relevant, and it is also not part of the recommendations made by the OECD. If it were the case that tenders were practised in the field of fish hermetics, which is what this is all about, it would probably have been very sensible. But in the last three years, there has not been a single offer in terms of fish hermetics. This is purchased directly. When it is not a functioning market, as the Council of State wants and describes, will Norway ensure that the companies and the jobs that depend on it can continue to contract, as they have for many years, so that we can participate in some of this, like other countries with which we compete?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e505	What is the case is that we have had a dialogue with the World Food Programme on these deliveries and the importance of local procurement. We want developing countries to be able to deliver and use this for their own jobs and for their own economic development and growth. It is the best solution in a development perspective. Then we have said that we are concerned that there should be an open competition about these deliveries, and that it should not be that we run to the competitors, i.e. Japan and Canada, who have been suppliers for this together with Norway, but that we should primarily go to the developing countries. If this system does not work, we have told both the suppliers and the WFP that we need to reconsider our position. But our position is that it is the developing countries that should deliver. They can also produce these goods, and they actually need these jobs much more than we do in Norway, which, after all, has a different economic situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e512	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e515	I would also like to ask a question to the Minister for Development. I have a question about the current situation, with a view to blending humanitarian efforts with military efforts. In Afghanistan and Iraq, several aid workers have been killed during the fall, precisely because people have not separated between who were soldiers and who were humanitarian workers. We should now be able to dare to take a debate on what is humanitarian. Is it possible to be humanitarian with cross rockets, with weapons? What we see is that several organizations, including The Red Cross and Legar without Borders see a clear link between the Walden and the American military interference in humanitarian aid. Military acts as auxiliary workers, distributing food and medicine with machine guns on their backs. And there is clearly a great risk that terrorist groups will perceive the relief organizations as allying with the military forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e524	First of all, this is an area of responsibility that lies below the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but I'm still going to answer the question. Clearly, there is an international concern that a greater use of military forces in humanitarian aid could create a situation where the uncertainty of relief workers is increasing. State Secretary Vidar Helgesen has focused heavily on this. This is also something that is going to be a topic in the context of the International Assembly of the Red Cross now. There is no doubt that there is a concern among the humanitarian actors about this. This also makes it very clear in the discussion of Afghanistan in relation to the assessment of Norway’s further involvement, or in cooperation and dialogue with other countries, that military personnel should take care of security conditions and try to create a framework for voluntary organisations, for humanitarian organisations and their reconstruction and relief work. Most recently, I had very central discussions about this with the various actors when I was in Afghanistan a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e533	Clearly, we are in a situation where the difference between soldiers and relief workers is erased. We see that the use of Norwegian soldiers costs a lot more than that. giving the money to Norwegian People's Aid, which is clearly much more effective. The organisation is private, it is an aid organisation that can do much more and uses it locally to operate mine clearance – much more efficient than Norwegian, state intervention, which may be more in place as a symbolic support for those who occupy Iraq. Does the Minister of Assistance see that we can have a transfer of aid, that aid is suddenly going to be a war effort? We were so lucky in Norway that we found democracy before we found oil, but we see that in some areas Norway is driving corruption. Norwegian state company operates with corruption. In addition, we mix roles between soldiers and relief workers. We're wiping out what was humanitarian Norway. What does the Minister for Aid intend to do about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e540	Firstly, I will not comment on the assessment of the activities of Norwegian companies abroad. Secondly, I am the Minister for Development and not the Minister for Aid. And third, when it comes to the question of a mix-up, I was in on it. We are also concerned about this. What has at least been done on the Norwegian side in relation to Afghanistan and the force there is that there is a very limited SIMIC part related to the operation. It's set at 5 million. kr which they may use for the type of auxiliary work. It is a long tradition when Norwegian forces operate abroad, that they have a few resources to operate with that kind of relief work. The emphasis of our humanitarian efforts is still on the voluntary organisations and on assisting the authorities in reconstruction. That's where the center of gravity still has to be. We're not going to move our efforts from that to the military.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e548	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e551	I have a question for Environment Minister Børge Brende. Several government councils in the government have been working hard against the destruction of tropical rainforests and have demanded that illegal timber should not be imported. One of the last observations in that context was last week, where the Minister for the Environment says he will ban illegal logging from Brazil. That's good. We have to do what we can to avoid the rainforest in South America being cut down. The problem is that while the Minister for the Environment makes tough demands, among other things. to Brazil, he does nothing to prevent it from being mowed in Norwegian rainforests, because in Norway we also have rainforests, residential rainforests along the coast of central Norway. There's only 20 km2 left of this rainforest, like, among other things. has a rich low and bog society. Some 8 km2 have been protected, but the problem is that Børge Burnde has not done anything to secure the areas that are not yet protected, and this despite the fact that the Stortinget in spring 2001 specifically asked for it to be done. My question is therefore: Does Børge Burnde think it tastes like double morals to make strict demands outside, while at the same time he does nothing to protect the protected forest in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e560	There's something surrealistic about this question, because in many contexts where I prefer, it's those who think I'm protecting too much forest. This time I'm not doing anything in this area. I share the representative's assessment of the seriousness of the situation in which the rainforest is severely cut out. Rainforests are harvested globally corresponding to an area of approx. half of the Norwegian population. In the case of the so-called coastal grancogen in central Norway, which we naturally appreciate very much now has become rainforest, which is important – there are some endangered species there, not endemic species, but some endangered species – it falls on its own unreasonableness when the representative claims that the Government does nothing. The representative himself pointed out that of 20 km2 with coastal crossings and in central Norway, 8 km2 have already been protected. You've protected almost half. I understand that it's nothing, but in my eyes it's a pretty big and important step. So it is that Norwegian Forest has gone out and said that if it is cut, they will not buy this coastal grancogen, because they will await the treatment of the Great Britain's report on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, which I submitted in ours, where I have also suggested increasing the protection of the forests in the years to come. In the budget, I have an additional 100 million. kr, which is old-fashioned protection, proposed a commitment mandate of 40 million. SEK to new protection until next year and SEK 18 million. kr in direct allocation in relation to protection. This represents a sum of 58 million. kr that we can use to protect new forest for next year. If it is the case that my professional authorities recommend that we further increase the protection of coastal waters in central Norway, and that it should be a priority, we will follow it up. But this is also based on professional input.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e571	It is true that some of this forest is protected, but there is very little left of it in total. The problem is that while we are waiting for more protection to be provided, there is maximum protection in this forest. Among other things, nature and youth have shown that protective timber has been hoarded in Norway that has even been sold with eco-labelling. Thus, in the spring of 2001, the Stortinge notified clearly that the already registered protected areas of forest should not be subject to further intervention. Despite this clear signal being given, the Minister for the Environment responded in a letter to me, and here today, that he leaves the whole responsibility to clean this up to the forest industry itself. My question is: why does the Minister for the Environment not want to follow the lead and actually introduce some means of protecting this forest while we are waiting for it to be protected?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e580	I cannot accept that «some forest» is protected. When 8 km2 of 20 km2 is protected, I think it is more than «some forest». We must also be aware that in the years to come, forests will be cut in Norway. We've been doing that for hundreds of years, and we'll keep doing that. But it's going to be done in a sustainable way. I can't promise that the mix between protected forest and non-protected forest is going to be 8 km2 of a total mass of 20 km2. There is a mixed number no government can deliver. Forests are also important in many districts, and there are many jobs associated with them. But what we're going to do is take care of all of our most important forest areas where there are red-listed species. Then the representative says that I leave the whole responsibility to the forest industry. This is not to leave the whole responsibility to the forest industry. I went to Stortinget in our house and asked for more coniferous protection, and I have increased the appropriations for coniferous protection in the budget. The representative should be present at some of the meetings I have participated in together with the forestry industry, because there sounds a little different, to say it carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e587	Then you just have to invite the representative with you. The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e595	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Bjørn Jacobsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 2, from the representative Rolf Terje Klungland to the Minister for Justice, will be raised by Knut Storberget. Question 7, from the representative of Dagrun Eriksen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be addressed by the representative of Brother Yngve Rahm. Question 8, from the representative Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research, who has been away. Question 9, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Education and Research, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 10, by Mr Jørund Leknes to the Minister for Labour and Administration, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Administration, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e618	This question, from the representative Bjørn Jacobsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e621	I allow myself to ask questions to the Foreign Minister who is being answered by the Minister for Development: ‘Israel has so far built up to 125 km’ – I saw today that it was 150 km – ‘with walls and fences against Palestinian territories on the West Bank. Israel does not follow the green line from the ceasefire in 1949. The wall goes several places into the occupied area. What does the Government do to influence Israel in the first place to stop the construction of the wall?"
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e630	Israel claims that the wall that is built partly along the green line and partly inside the West Bank is built to prevent Palestinians from carrying out terrorist acts inside Israel. Israel has the right to defend itself against terrorism. However, the government is deeply concerned about the trajectory that Israel now chooses in the construction of the wall. Arable land is expropriated, farmers are partially excluded from their soils, and entire villages have restricted freedom of movement. There is also a strong fear that the breach of the wall will prejudge the boundary of a final final status agreement, so that the construction of the wall involves de facto annexation of land. This could put a two-state solution at risk. As everyone knows, a two-state solution is an important part of the final status solution of the conflict. The government is therefore opposed to the building of the wall – or the fence, it varies a little – and if Israel still carries out the project, the wall must be built on the green line. Both Prime Minister Bondevik and Minister for Foreign Affairs Petersen have raised this issue with the Israeli Government. This matter was also dealt with in an open meeting of the Security Council on 14 October. In Norway’s posts, the government repeated its opposition to the wall and once again urged Israel to refrain from building the wall inside the West Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e639	I thank you for your answer. It is very gratifying that the Foreign Minister visited President Arafat yesterday, but it was a pity that one night was unable to obtain a resolution in the UN Security Council against the wall. But if the Government wants to go even further than the positive attitude of the Minister of Development here, what does the Minister of Development think one could take practical steps to trick Israel into one way to stop the construction of the wall and perhaps in the long term to tear it down?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e646	This is a difficult question for me to answer. It is primarily the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to make an assessment of the other measures that can be taken to trick Israel into action. I'm hardly sure that very many other countries have many good ideas for this at the moment either. It's a very complicated situation. We have from Norway, Minister of Foreign Affairs Petersen during visits and Prime Minister Bondevik during telephone calls, had many rounds with President Sharon on both this and other questions, and it is not easy to see how to influence Israel in the right direction on this issue. I guess it's essentially the American government that has the greatest influence in this regard, and it's an expectation that the international community has, that this responsibility should be taken by the US government as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e651	I thank you for your answer again. I believe the Secretary of Development is right to say that the solution lies in the American Congress, as they finance a great deal of the irregular measures that Israel has taken. In the village of Jayyous on the West Bank, the inhabitants have now been isolated for 10–14 days from their areas with citrus fruit and olive groves, and the Minister for Development knows very well what problems it creates for small farmers. In addition, six of their groundwater wells lie on the wrong side of the wall, and the development minister knows very well what water problems are like, especially for people who are poor and living in rural areas. Without water, the most complete activity stops. Does the Minister for Development see what we can do, either through the budget in Norway or by political action, to help those who are the most affected? So far, perhaps, it's about 4,000 to 5,000 Palestinians, who are clearly being rammed daily by this wall that's blocking them from their land. Does she see any short-term measures that Norway could contribute in any way?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e665	Yes, I myself plan to travel to the West Bank and Gaza, as part of the follow-up to our development cooperation with the Palestinian self-government authorities, hopefully in December. Then I will have the opportunity to look at the situation along the wall, including the Palestinian territories that are most affected in terms of practical problems that the representative here is facing, and which I am also familiar with. That, I think, would provide a better basis for assessing whether there are individual measures we can take on the Norwegian side to remedy the situation. I'm going to promise the representative I'm going to evaluate this, and I'm going to evaluate it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e673	This question, from the representative of Rolf Terje Klungland to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by Knut Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e676	‘In Flekkefjord, a woman was for some time killed and held hostage in her own home for 24 hours. The police didn't move out. They argue with a lack of resources. The public contact with the police in the western state of West Agder is significantly weakened. People who turn to the police outside of normal working hours are asked to make contact during normal working hours, even if there are killing threats or other serious situations. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the police move out in such serious incidents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e683	In this particular case, I have asked the Police Directorate to obtain the Commissioner's opinions. He informs us of the fact that the police in Agder in this case have not rejected any enquiry referring to the resource situation. On the basis of that department's information from the Police Directorate, let me give the following explanation of the course of events in this particular case in order to illustrate the police's course and priorities: On the day in question, the police district operating centre received a telephone call from a family member of an elderly woman in Flekkefjord. The family member called from Kristiansand. It was informed that the woman in Flekkefjord needed help because she felt threatened by a man who lived in the same house as her. The Operation Centre addressed the police patrol who served in Lister Security Cooperation Area. The police patrol was then on its way to another mission to relieve a neighboring conflict. Before the police patrol continued this assignment, however, they contacted the elderly woman who felt threatened. This was just done to assess whether the police should give priority to this new message in front of the mission they were in the process of carrying out. The police perceived it so that the older woman was pleased that the police called, but she expressed at the same time that she no longer needed help, because a doctor who had come to the place took care of him she felt threatened by. Later, the woman met at the police station in Flekkefjord to report the threat. This notification deals with the police in Agder with the necessary priority. Both the social affairs and home health care in the municipality are involved in the case. On a general basis, I would like to say that the police must give priority to violence. Making sure that citizens are safe is one of the most important tasks of the police. As a result, violence must also be given priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e696	I thank you for your answer. It must be a concern of the country's Minister of Justice that we are getting more and more examples of this. I'm recording that there's disagreement about how people describe the fact, but just that we get more episodes where people feel that they've lost a lot of the security that the police are supposed to contribute to in the local environment, needs to worry the Minister of Justice. One thing, as I said earlier in Stortinget here today, is the length of proceedings and the percentage of clarification in criminal matters. Another thing is the concrete presence of police officers. I have to say that I think it is worrying that we now in a number of quite large cities in Norway feel that the police are almost entering closed doors after noon. 16th@item: inlistbox It's Kongswinger in Hedmark, Elverum in Hedmark, and we also see many other places where there's a lot of people, and where you've been waiting for the police to be available at the police station. Will the Minister of Justice do something, so that we get some more content in the police service and not just discuss structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e703	Yes, now a very specific question was asked, and I have answered that in concrete terms. I have also given a clear value signal in that context. As for the police reform, which was presented by a labor party government, and where I have done what I think has been right to follow up, I will repeat what I have said earlier. When we evaluate the reform, it's both to learn what's going to be good and what can be improved. Clearly, with old police districts with main stations and instead with patrols, reality will be different. I note that this reality can vary from one part of the country to another. Evaluation is just about learning, about why it is, about how people experience it, and how the police experience it. What I know is that we have had an increase in the police force, there has been an increase in the budget, and there is an increase in competence. I register alarm messages, because it is important to register. I also register messages about a good job that is done, and that is not always spread with a lot of pressure. But in many places in the country, you can also read it if you see the picture. A composite image requires evaluation. Evaluation is the basis for learning, therefore it will be carried out. And of course, I want an open mind just for such an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e712	These are good words, but it's actually nothing but words. I recall the title of a youth book called ‘From Talk to Practice’, and I think the Minister of Justice will notice in these kinds of cases. The Workers' Party's initiative in relation to the police reform was just to get closer to the police officers, to maintain places of service for people to feel secure, and now we hear about value signals and about evaluation. I would like to say that it must then be possible for the country's Minister of Justice to ensure that police stations, especially in medium and large cities, actually have a service beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox I was expecting the Minister of Justice to intervene. It must be possible to provide it — not just wait for the evaluation that comes in 2004, but make sure it is in place. This is a legitimate fear of many Norwegian citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e719	I'm not going to go back to history, but it was actually a fight about the number of police districts, among other things. Kongsvinger Police District. I belonged to a minority who were heartily dismayed, among other things. by the representative of the then government party of Storberget. Later, we got an arrangement, and then it's my duty to make sure that the police, both through the police department and the local police officer, are operationally available. It does not have to happen in a station, but at least it has to happen that someone is available by a car that works in the neighborhood and that will be there quickly. This is a task for the police locally to organize. They have the authority to do that. They dispose of freedom and resources. It's the Police Directorate that's following up. Of course, to make sure that this comes out well, it needs to be evaluated. It's called learning. I have before the reform came, never expressed myself with confidence about how quickly it would affect you. I even said it would take some time. But now I do what I can to make sure that what is adopted is followed up and implemented, and that it learns from it. Part of the learning is that I myself travel around and take with me the impression, both from those who think the service should be better, from those who have experienced it as good, from police officers, from people on the floor and from everyone else. It is part of learning, but it does not replace the broad evaluation. It will give the representative and me a good opportunity to learn both from what is good and from what is not so good.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e729	‘Recently, the use of expert statements in court has been widely discussed in the media. A special focus has been on professional disagreements between psychologists and the use of tests as a basis for it, or expert opinions and advice on justice. In civil matters, there is no quality assurance of expert’s statement. In my opinion, this practice is a legal security problem both for individuals and for society. What will the Council of State do to ensure the quality of the work of experts in civil matters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e736	Like the representative of Hofstad, I see the issue of legal security here. Some overall features of expert assessments and information have been discussed in NOU 2000:23, issued to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health on the collection, use and storage of health information by insurance companies. However, because recent media headlines have been primarily related to child protection issues, I have been in contact with the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, who is responsible for this matter. In the same way as in criminal matters, decisions under the Children’s Protection Act are also of great and profound importance to those concerned. However, the lack of a similar system to that of the forensic commission in this area does not mean that legal certainty is poor. All the so-called coercive cases, e.g. care take-over is taken by a county council composed of a chairperson who is a lawyer, two experts and two members of the board. The experts are appointed by the Ministry in accordance with specific criteria. Although there are expert members in the county, it is not uncommon for the municipality or the private party to have used experts to investigate the matter before it is presented to the county council. In this case, the general government will have the competence to determine whether these expert investigations have been properly conducted and are of sufficient quality. In the event of a judicial review of child-restraint cases, the courts have also been seised of experts with judges appointed by the courts. As regards further quality assurance of the expertise in child care matters, I have been informed that the Ministry of Children and the Family has established a separate training programme for child care professionals over several years. However, in consultation with the Minister for Children and Family Affairs and, where appropriate, other interested parties, I would like to assess whether a system for monitoring or quality assurance of expert reports should also be established. The question of quality assurance of the work of experts in general I will also follow up in the Ministry of Justice's work on a new dispute law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e745	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am very pleased that the Council of State will follow this up and take this problem seriously. It is, as the Council of State says, especially in child distribution and care matters that this is a major problem. In the so-called Svanhild case, which has been much focused on in the media, examples have been found that you could have just needed a commission for review prior to the main negotiations. What can the Council of State do to avoid such a situation? I heard that the Council of State will follow up on the case law, but are there any other things that can be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e752	I understand the question, given that these matters affect people very directly, and that they go very close to people. So my answer is as follows: We have the Forensic Commission in criminal matters, and it has to ensure the quality of the expert's reports there. I do not see it as appropriate to extend this Commission's responsibility for expert reports outside criminal matters. I see it, however, that the Court of Justice in the first place is responsible for ensuring that the work of the legal experts is of the necessary quality. This is particularly important in matters relating to children. In working on a new dispute resolution law, I will follow this up and see how the court's responsibility can be developed. This work must include the administration of the Court of Justice and it is important to gain their and judges' experience in this area before the Government makes proposals for legislative changes and other important measures in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e759	The practice of today in the matters that we have heard through the media, where there have been facts where there is a basis for suspicion, and where there are also unworthy discussions in the court between several experts, is hardly something that is suitable to guide and inform the court of difficult cases. In addition to this, does the Council of State see that quality assurance of experts can also help to avoid appeals, thus also becoming a process mating measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e766	It is possible that it is right, as the representative says, that going into the cases can lead to what she herself says is a process mate. On the other hand, the most important thing here is to make sure that there is no doubt about the competence of experts. In this context, I refer to what I said in my main reply about the contact with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, but also that I will make special contact with the Court of Justice in connection with the new Disputes Act. We have other sensitive questions in recent times, for example. in the case of remunerations for lawyers in a completely different area, see how courts intervene and cross when they find that something is unreasonable. So I would like to say that I look forward with excitement to such a dialogue in connection with the Stortinget proposal about a new dispute settlement, and the contact I must then have with the administration of the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e777	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. He has almost answered the question in the oral question procedure, but it is as follows: ‘We point out that there are now layoffs in the districts. Can the Council of State indicate which statutory police tasks are to be prioritised in areas that lose important police resources with high local knowledge?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e786	Police reform is now at a stage in which police districts assess the structure of the holding, including: the organisation of police stations and officers’ offices. In this context, individual police districts consider several options to organise police services in order to make them more effective and public. At the latest in the next year’s budget proposal, the Ministry has provided the necessary political guidance to stress that the proximity of the public can best be ensured by the existence of police stations and officers’ offices, but that there is an active need to redeploy administrative tasks in order to ensure that individual departments have a rational and appropriate division of responsibilities and tasks between themselves. In this perspective, we want more to cultivate the operational and public functions of the Länsmannskontorets and the police stations. Both in the reform Communication and in the budget proposal, it is underlined that the number of service locations will be maintained. In some cases, it may be appropriate to merge several county councils where professionally appropriate and adequately localised and assessed. The name Länsmannskontoret should be maintained at the place of employment even if the place of employment/members’ office does not become a separate holding but is part of a larger County of Länsmann with several offices of Länsmann. As far as the bilgeman is concerned, today he covers a number of tasks. In addition, the changes in civil justice on the basic plane will in many places further reinforce the multifaceted and important role of the gentleman, as I also addressed in the oral questioning process. The preliminary reports from the police districts indicate that many are seeking regional cooperation solutions between several relief agencies, without prejudice to proximity and presence. In any case, there will be no mention of the depriving of statutory police duties as a result of organisational adjustments. These tasks will be prioritised and carried out as before, in an even more effective way than today. The whole purpose of the police reform is to get a better police force for the benefit of the public in those places where people need their services. Let me also add: I worry that we have a lot of places in the country where there are both resources and resources, not occupying jobs because people don't apply. It's a special challenge that emphasizes what I see is the core of the representative's question to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e803	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The question might have been a little bit clearer, because the Council of State was at the heart of what is at the core. It's limited what a human being can do. When we have unoccupied positions outside the county offices, it's not because they're not applicants, but it's because there's no money, and it's because the environment has become so low that the janitors move from there. What can the State Council and the Ministry of Justice do to fill the vacancies? Because it's limited what a janitor can do alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e812	There are probably some places where jobs are available because they are kept available. Even I have the principle that it should be the last method. It is better to see if other measures can be taken within a budget. But I'm not aiming for that relationship. I aim for places where there are both appropriations and will and you do not get applicants. This varies enormously across the country. I myself have been to the West Finnland police district and experienced what is the situation there. I know the situation of the police in Ryfylke. Elsewhere in Norway, it is quite different. I know that the Police Directorate is very concerned that there is going to be an active recruitment when people leave the Police College. I have to say that I also have some wonder here, because when we last set up a unit for the compensation of victims in Vardø, it was spiced by applicants. It was even the applicants who thought this was in Bærum and who maintained the application when they were told it was in Varde. So I probably have a significant belief in the personal agitation towards people to recruit. I also hope that the Department of Police College that we have received in Bodø will at least contribute to the three northernmost states to resolve some of the question that the representative is now raising.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e821	I thank the Council again for the answer. I have not received an answer to the question: What statutory tasks should be deprioritized? We have something in the districts called animal crime. There was a high flag and high on the file map a few years ago. Lensmen in the districts don't have time to take care of that job, and then it has to be down-priority, even if it's required by law. Is it, according to the Minister of Justice's assessment, that people in the districts are more law-abiding than people in the cities? Is that why we have the new reform, maybe?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e830	Legal compliance has many interesting variations in Norway, but I will not make any geographical comments on it. The truth is that the overwhelming majority of the Norwegian people are very law-abiding. It is that there are large differences locally. There's a lot of small janitor's offices that are involved in animal crime. There are many places where they're even concerned that it's very controversial locally. But the central point of my answer to the representative Bastesen to his questions about law-enforcement police tasks is to be down-prioritized as a result of organisational adjustments and changes, was no, that should not happen. That's what was at the heart of the question, and I've replied that it's not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e840	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In the Ministry of Justice’s threat assessment and priorities for the 2003 Police Security Service, the Globalisation Critical Movement is referred to under the heading of political extremism. The only other group mentioned here are the right-hand extremes. Is the Council of State in favour of such categorisation of the Norwegian organisations and environments that have identified themselves as critical of economic and political globalisation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e849	I would first like to say that this question was raised earlier this year through the daily press and was answered there, and one has also given answers to the Attac organisation. But I would like to repeat the answer and would like to elaborate on the question that Bjørlo Lightbakken has now raised. It is important that people engage and contribute to diversity in the social debate. The voluntary organisations are an extremely important and crucial component of the democratic and open debate that both the representative Bjørlo Lysbakken and I want to express our society. The movement of anti-globalisation is a very important contributor to the debate on globalisation. But it is unfortunately also part of the picture that violent elements may want to hide in – and thus act as part of – peaceful democratic movements. It's e.g. known that violent elements were present during the demonstration at the World Bank ABCDE conference in Oslo last summer. In this connection, I show that the organizer of the demonstration, the police and the overwhelming democratic majority of demonstrators combined contributed to the non-violence of these elements. That being said, all parties deserve a great reward for the fact that this demonstration almost became a street party where the message was in focus. It was due to the demonstrators, it was due to the police, it was due to cooperation between the police and demonstrators. This made a living democracy of which we must be proud. The anti-globalisation movement is part of such a public opinion. When the anti-globalisation activities were mentioned in the 2003 threat assessment under the heading ‘political extremism’, it was only because violent elements could hide in the movement and then, in order to emphasise, as it says in the threat assessment, that the movement as such was actively involved in preventing such violent elements. To further clarify this: the anti-globalisation movement in Norway, as I know it, is not a political extreme movement, but a social-critical movement that makes important contributions to a necessary social debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e860	I thank you for your answer. I agree with the Minister of Justice's assessments and am pleased that he sees it this way. Nevertheless, it is important to point out that the picture given in the text we are talking about here is rather unsound, because there is no emphasis on exactly what the Minister of Justice himself was about, and which is an important point, that there have never been violent incidents in connection with demonstrations, markings or other things that have happened around the critical movement of globalisation in Norway, and that it is such that some organisations and individuals expressed their sentiments of the way they were referred to, which open up to both speculations and misunderstandings. Therefore, I wonder if the Minister of Justice is ready to agree that the way this was set up and came out was unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e867	The way it came out was a journalist asked an open question. The Ministry of Justice gave the main comment I was making now. What you didn't say, and that I don't think came with, for example. In an interview in the newspaper, there is a positive description about this. Otherwise, there is not so much positive about such a threat assessment, if you go through the unupgraded version of it. When it was included, it was probably just because it's a fact that domestic, but perhaps mostly abroad, people have abused demonstrations in such a context. What is the point, even with what is actually in the threat assessment, which is publicly available, is that you get a certificate of satisfaction. That is usually not the way to express itself in such threat assessments. There you express concerns, a little sadness and a little bit of seriousness. But the fact that you can say something to someone in such a threat assessment belongs to the exceptions. It's expressed in the text. I repeat nothing here but what is in the text, and I think it is reasonable and right to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e872	I thank you again for the answer. I think it is important to point out that this certificate of satisfaction nevertheless enabled public attention and the angle that this received. That's what ultimately determines the impact that people out there are getting from the government's relationship to an important system-critical and radical political movement. In other words, the authorities also have a responsibility for how to put their words not only on the basis of what you think you have said, but on the basis of what is perceived in society as having been said. That is why I believe that the Minister of Justice should regret the fact that the text was put up in this way under this heading. It should be a simple matter, without anyone imagining the Minister of Justice or others in the Department that they meant anything other than what they said. I think it would be a natural thing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e879	Now it doesn't have to have open, unupgraded threat assessments a long story in Norway. I have been instrumental in that we have, so of course I stand by that. In such a context, it belongs to the exceptions of making some positive comments, and it is my duty to speak the truth that there are often people who want to take advantage of other people's positive and good motives. But we have an overwhelming story in Norway that shows that we are dealing with it. I know the Alta demonstrations very well, very long ago. They were just teased because police and demonstration management had a very tidy and good contact. It was a great pleasure for me to note that when we had the ABCDE conference, this repeated. But through police reports, I know very well that someone was trying. I'm not going to go into detail here in Stortinget. Let's just congratulate ourselves on the fact that democracy movements and the police together had so much sense and calmness and contact that these elements were never allowed to harm anything that would be a worthy and proper mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e890	I have a question for Minister of Justice Dørum, who goes so far in the same street as several questions have asked earlier today: ‘According to the Agderpost on 13 September, five police officers guard 62,771 citizens in Arendal, Grimstad and Fromand from 9.00 a.m. 16:00 to 7:00. The police reform was supposed to give more policemen active service. On Agder it seems quite the opposite to having happened. The result is more job opportunities, a less visible police force, falling trust in the police among the public and internal frustration in the building while crime is increasing. What will the Council of State do to correct the crisis that now seems to characterise the Agder Police District?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e899	I've obtained information through the Police Directorate. My answer is: In order to provide the population of Agder with the best possible security within available police resources, the Chief of Police in Agder has established a so-called minimum staff in each area of vigilance. However, the required minimum manning is related to the times of the day that experience requires at least police resources. At times of the day when the need for police is greater, manning is adapted to the situation. The description of Mr Andersen's representative can easily be misunderstood as to the fact that the minimum crew in the Arendal, Grimstad and Fromand watch area represents the actual crewing of all days of the week outside normal working hours. This isn't right. The afternoon on Friday and the night before the newspaper report, night to Saturday, the crew in the current watch area varied, but it was always clearly higher than five people. Usually, the chief of police does not go out with what concrete staff it is at all times in the district of Agder. It is for the sake of effective fight against crime that the police district does not want to tell how many people they have on the job at any time. The Chief of Police has made known the minimum crew so that the population should know that there is never less than five in the relevant area of vigilance. With regard to the overall staffing of the Agder police district, the number of ordinary posts is the same as before the three former police districts were merged. Compared with the other police districts of the country, Agder belongs to those who have a proportionately good crew.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e914	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and notice that. I would like to stress that the frustration in the South is great in this matter. Mr Dørum, Minister of Justice, received a letter from all the rapporteurs in the 29 municipalities and the two counties which constitute the Agder Police District in May this year, expressing his great dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction at all the positions in the Agder Police District. Most recently, the news in Sørlanden focuses heavily on the fact that several places are fighting hard against further cuts in the police. Yesterday, a representative from the Left in Tvedestrand, i.e. Dørum's own party, promoted an interpellation on the local government about the desperate manning situation at the city's county office, where 20 pst had to be cut. in the number of posts. It would have been nice to ask: what will Dørum answer his own party trap from the Left in Tvedestrand for a cut of 20 pst. in the number of police posts in the city? Sounds like a 20 pst cut. at a time when crime is increasing, is the police safe to the ears of the state council?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e923	I'm neither a police officer in Agder nor a police officer. I notice, of course, any reaction that comes to what is happening in Police Norway. It varies in different parts of the country. I'm not going to go into it now, except to say that Agder has the resources that I've been working on here. They have also received, for the current year, a significant amount of additional appropriations from the Directorate of Police to cope with their operational situation. I know that the Police Directorate is following the situation in the district very closely, and I keep myself informed about what they're telling me. As for the specific matter in Tvedestrand, it was early, fortunately, a fundamental clarification that when a man is elected as rapporteur, he naturally has the right to keep his job when he comes back. It was just supposed to be missing! Otherwise, I will basically add, after I have sometimes holidayed in the South, that I would like to see more of the joy it was expressed in the Agderpost one day, when it was written that the police in Riser moved out to Tvedestrand because the Tvedestrand police had something else to do, and that, as far as I remember, they also received assistance from the police in Gjerstad. Co-operation across municipal borders is a good thing. Other details will be taken with me when the police reform is evaluated. I said earlier today that evaluation means learning well, but also what you can learn from to improve everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e932	Once again, I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer, and I am pleased that he will follow up and follow closely what is happening in the area of police reform 2000 onwards. But after the information I have, Agder Police District is the police district that has lost most resources in the country. It doesn't rhyme with what the state council here says. I would like to say that, after such a weakened position, there is no way to implement the main intention of police reform in 2000 for Agder. I think this is very worrying. I therefore hope, as I said, and as the Minister of Justice said, that he will have a particularly keen look at the further course of police reform, and also at the resource situation and the special challenges facing the Agder police districts in the future. In this case, I hope that it will provide positive results for the country in the long term in this context, and will see to it that the Council of State keeps what he promises, and that he will carefully assess what is coming out of the 2004 Review of Police Reform 2000, and take particular account of Ageds in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e941	Evaluation means learning. But I note, for example. that the police in Agder – just to take one example – have built up their skills in what we call domestic crime, that is, domestic violence. In this area, this crime has been tackled in a way that you can be proud of, even in relation to the country. Part of the police reform is about building skills. I also refer to what the police officer in Agder said this summer, that one must take seriously the underlying organized crime, which is a new challenge in the district, and which I know is being taken seriously. The crime scene is changing, and the representative Andersen can at least trust that when I think something is going to be evaluated, that means that that's what's going to happen. Then, in order to stick to an expression my late mother-in-law taught me, we must follow the principle AMB – everything on the table!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e954	This question, from the representative of Dagrun Eriksen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be raised by the representative of Brother Yngve Rahm.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e957	I would like to ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs a question related to the spiral of violence that develops in society in many areas, both at random and in pairs, and this is a development that needs to be tackled in several ways: ‘Violence must be controlled through two tracks: the victim must be protected by alternative housing offers, restraining visits, etc. The perpetrator must also be helped to stop beating. It is important to prevent violence. Violence prevention measures should be developed in such a way as to make the offer nationwide. The organisation Alternative to Violence carries out such work in several places in the country. [[ATV]] ATV in Telemark has had a three-year project which ends in December. What will the Council of State do to ensure and extend violence prevention?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e966	Let me first say that the question is about violence in close relationships, often in families. For the most part, men are behind this violence, and victims are mostly women and children. Children who experience violence, either directly or indirectly, may have major problems in processing and coping with such experiences. In addition, they are particularly vulnerable; they cannot leave home. I agree with the representative Eriksen's wish to prevent such violence. Violence practitioners need to be guaranteed treatment services, and we need to develop prevention measures where men and young boys who struggle with their aggression and their sense of role can meet before the first battle comes. I have indicated in the budget proposal the need to develop nationwide measures and to contribute funds to the fight against violence against children and families, both for prevention and for treatment. In addition, I would like to refer to the establishment of the National Competence Centre for Violence and Traumatic Stress, which is behind several departments, where I propose 1 million in addition to existing funds. to the development of knowledge on violence and trauma. In addition, there will be, among other things: The experience of ATV in the Telemark project and the work of ATV on men over many years has been systematised and made available to all treatment and clinical institutions. The crisis centers, 50 in the number, offer a good deal to violent women and their children. We are now working to strengthen the crisis centres competently, both with regard to children coming to crisis centres and women with a minority background. In addition, the government is working on a new action plan against violence in close relations, and in December, the government-appointed Women's Violence Committee will present its position. Both the Action Plan and the Committee on Women’s Violence will propose ways of putting an end to the work on preventing man’s violence. In addition, I would like to remind you that Storting's request decision No. 95 for 2002–03 asked the Government to consider how to develop a nationwide offer to men who use violence in close relationships. We are already doing this well. We have recently met with the project ATV-Telemark to discuss the challenges related to the possibilities of extending this project. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs is also in dialogue with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice as natural partners in this matter. Let me end by saying that there is hardly any other area that is as diverse as the violence of men against women and children in close relationships. Without solving the problem of men's violence against women, we can never achieve an equal society. I can assure the representative that the Government will work to ensure that men who commit violence are offered help to deal with their aggression and their violence. Reducing this violence is both good, preventive family protection and good child protection. The absence of violence in close relations is a fundamental human right.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e979	I would like to thank the Council of State for what I see as a positive response. I am very pleased that the Government so clearly signals the willingness to take this question and this problem seriously, and that one is willing to go into both causes and solution orientations in relation to a problem that has long been among the more hidden problems of violence we have, namely the close relationships. At the same time, the Council’s response gives a clear signal of a handshake to the many who attend this daily meeting, whether in a crisis centre context or linked to, for example: ATV in Telemark, and that the experience gained, is now being made available in a positive way, so that the measures can be effective and as comprehensive as they are actually considered necessary to reduce violence. In this context, it's almost just victims. I am glad that the government sees what is behind, and is willing to also grab hold of the one who beats and perpetrates violence. That's what everyone's going to earn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e986	The government takes this very seriously. It's very positive to be able to stand here on the Great Council's pulpit and say that we've invested a lot of money in the next year's budget as well. This is not least linked by the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs to the treatment and treatment of children. ATV-Telemark is doing a brilliant job. They received over a three-year period funds from the Ministry of Children and Family for this very project, focusing on children who are witnesses and who themselves experience violence against mother from father or male cohabitants of mother. We regard this project as a very important prevention measure, both in child protection and in family protection. The report we have received, and the feedback we receive from the evaluations, show that it benefits, and that it can actually save society too much money for later treatment or imprisonment. At least I'll do mine and have taken an initiative to see if we can manage to get ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e993	I don't need to ask any further questions to the Council of State. I feel that she here has shown great willingness to take this problem seriously. I am also very pleased that the experience gained through ATV in Telemark is now recognised, and that this can be used to establish a more nationwide offer not only for victims of violence, but also for those who commit violence. On that basis, I do not need any further questions or comments to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1000	I'll reply anyway. I just want to highlight the new National Centre of Competence for Violence and Traumatic Stress that comes into operation from 1 January next year. I think that center will be very important. I believe that the expertise you have, not only from ATV, but also from other institutions involved in treatment and prevention, is becoming very important. As the representative also points out, it is important to know what we are doing and how we are doing it in relation to developing new methodologies in this area. In the case of children, which I'm very concerned about, we know a lot of the methodology we can use, but we have to systematize it in a better way than what we've done today. That is what is meant by the funds we have put into the budget of the Ministry of Children and the Family.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1007	A government council that answers more than the Storting asks, promises well!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1014	This question, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1017	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family, who answers on behalf of the Minister for Education and Research: ‘The Meteorological Institute plans to terminate the meteorological service at Rygge Aviation Station. Owners of recreational and fishing boats and ferries operating on the Oslo site believe there is a strong need for the service to continue. Weather forecast for the whole day from the Blinder, with the fjord's special weather conditions, will mean reduced safety. Does the Council of State consider that a change of weather service will satisfy the requirements of the mariners for safety?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1026	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I am responding on behalf of the Minister of Education and Research. The representative Hedstrøm refers in his question to a planned termination of the meteorological service at Rygge Aviation Station. This is a somewhat unpresisive description of the current situation. The meteorological services shall be reorganised at six aerodromes, including Rygge Aviation Station. This will take place from 1 January 2004. To date, the Meteorological Institute has carried out meteorological services on behalf of Avinor, the former Aviation Agency. Avinor has now decided to carry out a larger share of the service with its own staff. The meteorological service consists of an observation service and an alert service. In a new structure, the observation service will include, inter alia: The back of the flight station will be performed by local staff from Avinor. Today there are staff from the Meteorological Institute who make the observations. The preparation of aviation warnings shall continue to be carried out by the Meteorological Institute. The weather forecasting service for more than 40 airports in Norway has long been provided by the regional offices of the Meteorological Institute in Oslo, Bergen and Tromsø. For Rygge's part, the aerodrome alert service will be transferred to Oslo, Blind. At the request of Avinor, short-term notices will be drawn up for Rygge every half hour with validity for the following two hours, except for a period of night when observed every hour. In addition, the Meteorological Institute produces alerts every three hours for the next nine hours. Notifying personnel will receive 24 hours a day information on the weather conditions on the Back through video cameras, from automatic meters of temperature, humidity, wind, cloud height and visibility, and through conversations with Avinor’s local weather observer. Back and all of the Oslo soil are also well covered by weather radar. The Meteorological Institute's own conclusion is that the alerts will still have very good quality. The meteorological services of airports aim at ensuring aviation safety and are not intended to meet specific needs of other users. But in order to meet the needs of small boat users, the Meteorological Institute has for many years broadcast weather observations and forecasts without delay 24 hours a day through the boat radio, which has broadcasting stations both on the Vestfold side and on the Østfold side with coverage area Outer Oslofjord and the route south towards Jomfruland. The consignments are updated five times a day. In addition, during October, these weather reports will be transmitted 24 hours a day via NRK's digital radio test broadcasts, DAB, targeting the Oslofjorden counties. The service is provided by the Blinder and is provided by highly qualified personnel who have access to advanced meteorological information and who have gained experience and knowledge of special weather conditions around Oslofjord for many years. On the basis of this information, I cannot see that the interests of the boat crew get hurt because of the notified conversion of the meteorological service.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1043	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There have been significant reactions by the boat crew to the changes proposed on Rygge, which will apply from 1 January 2004. It is probably primarily justified that the service, as it is organized today, works very well. There are hundreds of thousands of recreational boats in the Oslofjorden, the most trafficked fjord in the country especially in the summer months, and there are changing weather conditions. We also have jumbo ferries with 10,000 passengers out and into the spring every day. There has been a lot of focus on this, and especially when you have a good service, you are afraid to lose it. As has now been presented by the Council of State, it seems reassuring that the Meteorological Institute should have frequent alerts. A relatively frequent alert is now required at night, and all technological aids and professional actors from the Meteorological Institute are to be used. However, I have an additional question: if it were to prove that this which is now presented theoretically, and which seems to be good, does not work in practice, will the ministry be willing to reconsider this and look at the matter again?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1052	I first want to say that we have no reason to ask questions about the assessment that has been made in this case, and we believe that the reorganisation will also meet the needs that are present. We know that the weather service will be updated one to two times a day, and in the case of Rygge, I would like to point out once again that short-term alerts will be drawn up every half an hour. The boat radio will also update its service five times a day and is easily accessible to everyone. In my opinion, this should be enough. That being said, there will always have to be some follow-up to this, and it is because of the flight safety that Avinor, the former Aviation Agency, is responsible for the compliance of the safety requirements in this case with the Air Safety Authority. Of course, we're going to follow up, and I'm going to pass this on to the Minister of Education, but I expect that if this isn't satisfactory, we'll hear it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1057	I thank the Council of State for the additional response and have only one comment on it. It's like this in Norwegian society that a lot changes. It is important not to change for the sake of change when you have a service here that is proven to work. I don't know that there have been any objections to it, but nevertheless you're willing to change what is very satisfactory. The reason is often that you have to save money. But if it turns out that this doesn't work, and you have to save money on a service, it's also possible to assess user-funded services, that the person who calls or uses the service pays for it in whole or in part, so that you can cement a system that is proven to work well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1064	Here again, I think maybe I'll make a little comment. Thus, the conversion is a result of technological and professional development, and the weather observation service can be performed by non-meteorological personnel from Avinor, among others. because the service is increasingly automated and simplified. Modern weather forecasting is research-based, and quality is best maintained and improved in strong meteorological environments. I would also like to say that we cannot see the need for a user-funded service for Oslofjord in addition to the weather forecasting of the boat radio and warnings that the boat owners can get on the telephone from the Meteorological Institute in Oslo today. We believe that this is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1083	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1089	This question, from the representative of Jørund Leknes to the Minister for Labour and Administration, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Labour and Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1092	I have allowed myself to ask the Minister of Labour and Administration a question: ‘The Norwegian central government is currently largely using software based on closed standards and protocols. This is distorting competition and hampering the transition to open-source alternatives. There are now good alternatives to Microsoft that are free, in particular the office package OpenOffice and the Linux operating system can be mentioned. What will the Council of State do to increase the use of software based on open standards and protocols?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1101	Here again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that I am responding on behalf of another State Council, this time the Minister of Labour and Administration. The government's ICT strategy in the public sector, adopted in February of this year, provides the overall direction for our policies in this area. In line with the Government’s policy on the most decentralised decisions, the ICT strategy sets out an important principle that the choice of software is a local responsibility. It is therefore up to each public enterprise to assess which software it wants to use. The ICT strategy points out that, ultimately, individual public enterprises need to assess which software they are best served with and themselves assess the offers on the basis of their own assumptions and requirements, such as: costs of adapting other software, own technical competence, maintenance costs, long-term sustainability, etc. Individual enterprises will come to different conclusions here. The use of open formats and protocols is important for the exchange of information with the public and industry. The government emphasises the use of open solutions in its ICT strategy. This will include, inter alia: as reflected in the Government’s work on reporting and reuse of information, emphasising the use of open formats when establishing new solutions. The government’s website, ODIN, uses open protocols and formats in its presentation of information. It is recommended that public websites follow open formats and protocols to ensure access to information for as many users as possible. The spread of open standards and open source solutions is also an important competition policy issue that I expect the Competition Authority to be aware of within its remit. The Ministry of Labour and Administration, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, has carried out a wide-ranging short-term study to identify initiatives in the field of open-source software and provide an up-to-date status with regard to the use of this type of software. This study shall also outline possible action options for the central authorities. The results of the survey will be available during November 2003. When this study and its results are available, the Ministry, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, will assess its follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1116	I thank you for what I consider to be an uplifting response, but will still follow up. The use of closed formats and protocols leads to the binding of software from one supplier. It is important that all should be able to avail themselves of their services, regardless of their financial background. The price of computers is so low today that even the least resource-intensive users can acquire them. But then software will be a big cost, and since there are good free alternatives, it is important to ensure that they can be used as much as possible. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Will the Council of State work to ensure that the services of the Norwegian administration use open formats and protocols, so that access is ensured for as many users as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1125	I agree with the intention that as many users as possible should have access to this. At the same time, the Ministry must carefully consider that central public support measures do not violate State aid rules or the public procurement rules, in order not to favour any player in this market. Other countries are also bound by similar rules. There are therefore wide variations in the approach that countries have taken to open software, and how concretely this can be supported. The role of the authorities in some countries is – to say the least – passive informers, while others are more active as facilitators. We will evaluate our approach based on the results of the survey that I announced in my first answer. So this we have to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1132	I thank you again for a nice answer. I also think it is nice that the Select agreement with Microsoft was not renewed. But at the same time, I feel that the department should perhaps make a little more effort to ensure free competition. The Norwegian State spends several million dollars a year and is therefore a very large player who buys software. My question is: is it more urgent to use the large market power of the Norwegian State to push suppliers to use more open formats and protocols?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1141	On behalf of the Minister of Labour and Administration, I believe that I take this with me as a comment and a wish from the representative who has asked the question. We attach great importance to bringing back a comprehensive strategy related to this study, also in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, as I have said so far. So that's going to be my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1149	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «In the reorganisation from Vegvesen to Mesta you get 66 pst. of its old salary paid as a final package for up to 10 years. According to the magazine “Road and We”, 66 psts are still kept. [[State Road Service]] of their old salary for up to 10 years, even if you start a new, well-paid job in competing companies. Was this the intention of the Council of State in the reorganization of the State Road Service?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1158	On 1 January 2003, employees of the manufacturing activities of the State Road Administration were transferred to Mesta. The crew at Vegvesen was the result of a direct assignment to the production activity. A changed market situation has required staff changes. I've been, and I'm, concerned that the downpour is going to happen in a proper way. I am, among other things, the commitment to provide older workers with a decent leave from work and has therefore facilitated the possibility for the company to use, for example: early retirement in cases where an employee would not be entitled to an ordinary occupational pension or a contractual pension. I refer here to review in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 1 for 2002-2003, conversion of the road transport sector’s production activities into State limited liability companies. I note that Mesta is concerned with legislation and practices, as with other changes in the state sector. However, it has not been my intention that the early retirement scheme should lead to some raising ‘double pay’. After I have been informed, this is so far two-three people. I want to contact Mesta to discuss the use of this tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1174	I am very pleased with the answer. That the downpour in the state road system at the time of the transition to Mesta was to take place in order, we have all agreed, and that is not what this matter is all about. It's about saving a lot of money, and no one's going to have a double salary. That it's about two-three people, I don't know anything about – I'm just referring to the State Road Service's own magazine «Way and We». I'm glad the Council of State will take this into account. But does she have any idea that something will really be done, and that this case with double pay will be stopped? And if so, how much savings does the Council expect this to mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1183	I would like to emphasise again that there is a difference between the final package, which is about a scheme that will apply for up to 18 months after the end, and what is involved in early retirement schemes. I would also like to remind you that when the establishment of Mesta was to take place, 1 500 people were estimated to be in the business. In the company it was approx. 1 000 persons over 58 years of age. It says a little bit about the composition of the workforce in the company. I have been concerned, as I said at the outset, with a dignified treatment of the employees. We have a board of directors for the company that has the option to choose different arrangements to take account of employees, whether it is a final package or an early retirement pension. That scheme will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1192	As I said before, it is not my intention to comment on the fact that the downpour should take place in order – we all agree. Governments are also beginning to talk about final packages and worthy treatment. We all agree. But the practice of ending and bringing with it 66 pst. of his old salary into a new company, such as Selmer, Weibäck, and so on, I think that I am simply looking. When one sees that early retirement in the budget position is totaled to 911 million. kr, it's clear that here there should be funds to save. It does not seem to the Council of State that 911 million. Is there a lot of money in this area that could have been better spent, either on road safety or on better roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1199	Substantial funds were put in for conversion for the company when it was established as AS. This has been important in order to ensure the proper consideration of employees. The conversion is and has been demanding, and I want to say that it is so far successful, not least on the basis of taking into account and showing respect for the employees in the business. As I said at the outset, the intention behind the scheme has not been to create a system of double wages. I will discuss this with Mesta. However, it is also up to the employer to choose which solution you want for their employees. It's a big shift, which is demanding. It is successful, not least in the way that we get an efficiency gain that just means that we can spend more money on roads, road safety and what it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1209	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘In the TV2 programme on the wolf mystery sent on 22 September 2003, it was ‘confirmed’ by the villagers for many years that the wolves in southern Scandinavia started by illegal release, i.e. serious environmental crime. Does the Council of State see this as probable, and will he set down an investigation commission to investigate these very serious claims?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1218	Should there be illegal imports and the shedding of wolves in Norway, there will be serious environmental crime, and the police are responsible for investigating such cases. The claim that the Scandinavian wolf population is derived from illegally exposed animals is not a new date. So far, no evidence has been provided of the illegal release of wolves in Norway, despite the fact that there have been rumors of such a release for decades. The forest organisation NORSKOG has also promised a great reward to the person or persons who can provide evidence of such a release. As far as I know, this has not given results. Genetic analyses have made it possible to investigate the origin of today's Scandinavian wolf population. The analyses show that the wolf is not hybrids or wolves from animal parks but that the population is formed from eastern immigrants from Finland or northwestern Russia. Immigration has been documented from the east twice in the late 1970s, and once in 1991. This last migration provided the basis for the growth of the wolf population in Scandinavia. All wolves that have been examined in today's Scandinavian population can be traced back to these three individuals. In addition, it has been shown that the so-called Vegårdshei wolf was a wolf that had migrated from the east. This was killed in 1984 without having reproduced. Although claims about the deployment of the wolf have been investigated in the past, in the light of the TV programme, I have asked the Directorate for Nature Management to review the case, and I am now waiting for the directorate's feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1229	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I consider positive, as far as the matter has come. These were serious claims made in this TV program, honoraries have seen things to prove that the wolf is illegally exposed. Many people find it difficult to believe that the wolf has walked as far as some claims, namely from Estonia, Russia or Finland and then through Sweden and Norway. It sounds strange that it does. I thank the Council of State for having come so far and taken the question seriously. But what I want is that the Commission – or the Committee, or what it is now called – becomes an enlarged and more neutral Commission, that it consists of both people who are too predatory, in this case wolf, and those who are opponents, in order to clarify all the sides – I stress all the sides – of this matter, so that we can once and for all finish the question of where the Norwegian wolf comes from.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1234	I will decide on a possible follow-up to this question when I get the report from the Directorate for Nature Management on the table. In the case of the wolf's migration capacity, which the representative is occupied with, it is actually quite large. There is evidence through radiotelemetry that the wolf can go up to 20 miles in a day. Furthermore, it is documented that the wolf has passed throughout South Norway and down to Rogaland, almost without observation of the wolf en route. The distance between the Swedish-Norwegian wolf population and the nearest Finnish population is 90 miles. Based on what we know about the wolf's migration capacity, it is fully possible for a wolf to wander from Russia/Finland and to Sweden/Norway. This can be done by trekking along land north of the Gulf of Bothnia or on the ice above the Gulf of Bothnia. It's also established through the studies that I pointed out, that three of the wolves that have been sampled actually originate in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1241	That they're from there, there's no doubt about it. The genes show that they're just from there. But the question is, how did they get there? Have they gone, as the Council of State says? It may also be possible, but many of us ask the question: Why would the wolf do that? Then we may also think that it has been helped by people. There are several people who believe, and it might have shown the TV show. But if it turns out that the wolf comes from the north, or from Estonia via Russia/Finland, is Norway obliged to have a wolf tribe that is not initially Norwegian but comes from completely different districts? This is about district policy, it's about living in the districts, it's about what it's worth to be able to use nature, it's about feeling safe, it's about being able to live with bumps so you have something to live on. So it's not just about having wolves or not, but it's about good district policies, so that people can still live and live in security, among other things. on Finnskogen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1246	Immigration is difficult, no matter how.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1249	The President is quite right in that regard. But now it is that at this point the Stortinget has approved and ratified the Berne Convention, where it is said that Norway is obliged to have the large predators, including wolves. Now there has been an exchange between North-West Russia, Finland, Sweden and Norway over all years, and as I said in my reply, genetic analysis has made it possible to investigate the origin of today's Scandinavian wolf population. The analyses show that the wolf is not hybrid or wolf from animal parks but that the population is formed from eastern immigrants from Finland or North-West Russia. This has been established by the Evolution Biological Centre in Uppsala. So that's the starting point. But if it's the case that someone has put out wolves that have been in the zoo, that's environmental crime and one thing for the police. But in any case, I have asked the Directorate for Nature Management to review this again. We'll get one of those things on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1258	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The Member States’ mapping activities perform important societal tasks, including those related to safety in several areas. Accidents with helicopters that have crashed due to a collision with power lines that have not been marked on maps are examples showing the consequences of an updated map material. Can the Council of State guarantee that the reorganisation of the State Charts and the budgetary reductions adopted by the majority of the population will not go beyond the safety-related tasks of the State Maps?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1267	The required charting is, among other things: an important contribution to maritime safety and contributes to the safe movement and reduction of environmental disasters. On the land side, the focus of the State’s mapping work in the coming years will be shifted more from spatial data production to the organisation and preservation of existing and new digital data. These data will be produced within the splice layer of Norway digitally, a splice layer between municipalities and government agencies. The overall organisation and production of data is an important contribution to preparedness and security and concerns almost all safety aspects. In particular, maps provide a basis for the preparedness planning of security measures related to floods, gliding and accidents. Digital map data and satellite positioning services are used by police, fire services and ambulances. The planned activities in the coming years will generally ensure a good quality of the safety societal tasks Mapping has been set to take place. Compared to today's level, quality will be improved. The representative Konglevoll mentions helicopter accidents in particular. Here, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Defence have jointly financed the update and operation of the aviation barrier database until the end of 2004. A key task is the collection of data for high-voltage power lines. As of 2005, it is expected that the deployment phase will be mainly completed and that one will move into an operational phase where all action holders will have to report measures at a certain level.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1278	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There are also examples of accidents occurring even if the powerlines are not more than 15 meters high, that is, the requirement to be in the aviation register. It shows that having up-to-date maps is important for security. This is just one example of the importance of the work done by the Cartwork. If it is an up-to-date tool, it also requires resources. As the Council of State said, good maps are important for society to function in many areas. The problem for the Cartwork and safety in Norway is that there have been major cuts in recent years. As the government is expected to collect what could be saved by setting up a county agency in 2003, we have to assume that the cuts proposed this year will have to be saved by cutting into other tasks. My question to the Minister for the Environment is: What kind of tasks are we going to cut further?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1287	First, I have to join the representative who says that maps are very important. It is also an important input into the economy to have a good map base, and more stringent good map basis requirements are required when entering a digitised map world. This is why the Ministry has placed great emphasis on sharpening the State's mapping work in relation to what is at the heart of the task, namely to have a well-updated map basis. Through an internal evaluation and various consultant reports, we have found that having a County Map Office in each country is not appropriate. It is more appropriate to slim that bit down to get more money to spend on what is important to update the map base. It is also the case that the efficiency potential referred to in the proposition for next year can be exploited through efficiency and rationalisation and not fewer map data.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1292	We clearly agree on the importance of maps, but do not agree on what this requires of political action. The council says to sharpen the problems, and indicates that you have cut down on the number of county offices. The clear feedback we have received from a lot of municipalities is that having a County Map Office in its county is very important for municipalities to be able to do a good job. Therefore, the closure of the County Map Office will affect the work of the municipalities. What the Council of State does not respond to, however, is what you should cut in once you have earned what you can earn by setting up a county card office, especially given that many of the employees will have to have a waiting salary. What is it that you have to save money on, and how much cancellations do you see that it can be in the Cartwork?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1299	The representative Konglevoll and I fully agree that we should have an efficient and good chart. But it's also my job to make sure that the state, which today spends 350 million. kr every year at Kartverket, get as much as possible back for the money. When there is evidence on my table that more maps can be obtained by streamlining, sharpening, modernizing and reorganizing, I think it is right to implement it. Because on the government expenditure side, there are many things that are being called for and that require more money, both in the psychiatric, hospital and kindergarten sectors – I just mention something. It delivers the government into the budget. It's absolutely right that if you spend more money on producing maps than you need through an inappropriate structure, we have to deal with it. I expect the opposition to support a more modern state that provides more efficient services.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1304	Then the president believes all the questions that were to be asked today have been asked, and we have been answered. Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-15.ana.ud1651e1317	There is no record.
