ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e28	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3539]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e44	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there will be a change of line of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e55	rapporteur on the subject): On 28 May 2003, the size of the population adopted new guidelines on social security. The new guidelines imply that the objective of settlement is to create income developments at least in line with developments in active employment. The previous wording was «overly» in line with, which over time led to under-regulation of the basic amount of social security, so that the development of pensions has not followed the general wage trend. In the new guidelines, the wording that can be corrected for ‘specific conditions’ is retained. This means that a wage increase due to a change in working conditions may be excluded from the calculation basis. An example of this has been the teacher’s settlement where extended working time has resulted in higher remuneration. The basis for the adjustment shall be the expected income development of employees as a whole in the regulatory year following the adjustment of the basic amount for deviations between expected and actual wage increases in the last year. In addition, Stortinget agreed that the new guidelines should also be taken into account in the year’s settlement. So that's the year's settlement we're now dealing with in the hall. If the Government's offer is consistent with adopted guidelines, the Storting will normally approve the offer. As far as I am aware, there are no historical examples that a social security settlement has not been approved by the Stortinget. The special feature of this year’s settlement is that through many individual decisions, both at the time of last year’s social security settlement, the State budget for 2003 and its treatment and by adopting new guidelines, the Storting has provided strong leadership both for the year and for its settlement. A central question thus becomes: Has the Government, through its offer to organisations, followed up the decisions – and guidelines – taken by the Storting? The majority of the population decided during the budgetary procedure. S. No 11 for 2002–03 that the Government should resume the recession in the last two years, i.e. the slowdown between 2001 and 2002, and the slowdown between 2002 and 2003. Taking into account the special circumstances and the teaching system as such, the majority of the Committee has come to the conclusion that the lag between 2001 and 2002 was 0.6 pst, while the lag between 2002 and 2003 was 0.5 pst. It is consistent with the Government’s offer to the organisations, and thus in line with the Storting decision, including adopted guidelines that are also used for the settlement of the year. According to the revised national budget, the expected wage growth for employees overall is 4.5 p.p. The government's offer to the organizations is 4 pst. The Committee has come to the conclusion that when correcting the teacher’s settlement, an expected salary increase for next year is 4.4 pst. Thus, there is an deviation of 0,4 pst. between the Government's offer to the organisations and that reached by the majority of the Committee. The majority of the Committee therefore considers that the Government does not follow the guidelines adopted by the Stortinge, which allowed an offer to be made at least in line with the general wage trend. On the basis of this, the majority of the Committee has found that it was not able to accept the offer made by the Government and has instead made a proposal for a 4.4 p.m. offer, which constitutes the majority vote of the Committee. I assume that the divergent proposals that exist here from different minorities will be presented by the parties behind the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e81	One year ago, the Workers' Party chose to support the Government's proposal for social security settlement, despite the fact that we believed that the basic amount was under-regulated in relation to the general wage development. We've got a lot of criticism for doing that. The reason for our position in 2002 was that there was no basis for claiming that the Government had broken the Storting's assumptions for the settlement. The Storting’s “order” was unclear, and then it would be wrong for the Storing in retrospect to vote against the Government’s proposal. We learned an important lesson from this: that there was a need to change the social security policy. Therefore, in the context of the treatment of social security in 2002, we proposed that the Government should submit proposals for new guidelines so that they could be addressed well in advance of the year’s settlement. This proposal was widely endorsed by Stortinget. However, although the Government failed to follow up this decision, the majority ensured that on 28 May this year the Stortinge adopted new guidelines for the establishment of social security funds. These new guidelines are clearly different from the old ones in some important areas. Firstly, a clear system for calculating backlogs from previous year’s settlement is established. In this area, the Government has not had a choice. The guidelines are so clear that the follow-up is also in place in the Government's social security plan this year. In addition, the error is corrected from last year. The under-regulation that took place in the social security settlement for 2002 is reflected in the year’s settlement. This is a direct consequence of a decision taken by the Stortinget, on a proposal from the Labour Party, in the context of the 2003 budgetary procedure. The new guidelines further state that, in addition to resuming a possible lag, a supplement shall be calculated for expected wage developments during the regulatory year. The expected total wage development of employees shall be taken as a starting point. Int. S. No 223 for 2002-2003 the majority of the Social Committee clarifies how this should be understood by the following comment: ‘The discussions will focus on the expected wage growth for all groups in the coming years, as reflected in the Government’s proposal for the Revised National Budget 2003’.» [[total employees]] The heart of the conflict is the point of the guidelines that it should be possible to correct for specific circumstances. However, in this area too, the majority of the Committee has been clear in its comments in the Inst. S. No 223 for 2002-2003. That's what it says. «Special conditions» means the development of earnings for individual groups, which is due not only to a purely pay supplement but also to changes in duties or working hours, and which results in a reduction in the relevance of a comparison of wage developments between the years in which the assumptions were changed.» In the discussions with social security organisations, the government chose to submit a final offer in terms of expected salary developments this year, at 4.0 pst. – despite the fact that the Government itself has estimated the overall wage development of the revised national budget at 4,5 pst. This led to a break in the discussions. The Labour Party has always voted in favour of the proposal for social security settlement submitted by the Government, in whatever political colour, to the Stortinget. We're not going to do that this year. It is, in my opinion, the sole fault of the Government. It's not a big business that's going to take place in this room today. The government knew when it started discussions with the social security organisations, that the Stortinget had given clear commitments to the year and the coming years. Despite this, and through a number of more or less subtle excuses, the government has chosen to disregard the Storting decision and the Storting intention. The government must take the consequences of that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e104	The government’s proposal for social security settlement is based on the new guidelines adopted on 28 May 2003. There are three aspects in the context that are important, the coverage of late 2001 and the establishment as a starting year for the new guidelines that the annual regulation follows at least the wage developments of employees, corrected for special circumstances that take account of income policy cooperation in 2003, as the guidelines also express: Firstly, it is important that the 2001 aftermath is covered. The rules for compensating for the 2001 settlement are based on the organisation’s presentation of the settlement and the delivery of the protocol, where the parties agree that the organisations included recital 4 pst. wage growth from 2000 to 2001. This is because the then Labour Party government chose to speed up discussions with the pensioners’ organisations, so that they were not familiar with the Government's estimate of wage growth in the revised national budget. This increase is in addition to the ordinary G-regulation for 2003 and will thus settle the discussion on lag, which arose as a result of the Stollenberg government’s settlement management in 2001. Secondly, it is important to ensure an increase in income at least in line with employees, but where the growth in wages, to which G is to be compared, is corrected for ‘special circumstances’. The salary growth estimate in the revised national budget is 4,5 pst., as corrected for the impact of the teacher package in 2003 at -0,1 pst., can be set at 4,4 pst. Wage growth from 2002 to 2003 is strongly influenced by high overhangs until 2003 for example. health professionals and community groups. For a large part, these have their background in high additions for individual groups in 2002, which were aimed at reintroducing a follow-up. An estimate of the effect of such an addition in salary growth may be in the range of 0,2 pst. In the case of pensioners, the growth of income is taken into account as a result of the reduction in the number of pensioners. As a result, the government parties, and the Government, assume that it may be reasonable to use 4.2 pst. as an estimate of expected wage growth. The government's offer for annual regulation was 4 p.m. In addition, an over-regulation of the backlog in 2002 of 0.13 p.m. should also be taken into account. and an effect on the growth of income from 2002 to 2003 of the increase in the basic pension from 1 May 2003 to 0,5 pst. Government parties thus believe that the guidelines related to annual regulation have been fully followed. Thirdly, 2003 is a special year because of cooperation in income policy. Both the previous and the new guidelines take account of such situations by attaching the following premise to the annual regulation: ‘... in line with the principles and objectives on the basis of which the income policy approach is to be implemented’. That is why the Government has incorporated the competitive sector into its offer, but – and I stress but – with exactly the same additional regulation clause as the state employees have received. Then I will refer to the next matter to be dealt with in this room. In general, it may be appropriate to assume that the estimates of expected wage increases to be regulated by pensions are prudent – this is because otherwise, the situation in which the growth of pensions contributes to raising expectations of wage increases that tend to push it up. Over time, this practice will not affect the income development of pensioners, as it is guaranteed by the post-regulation provision in the guidelines. This means that any difference will be corrected by two back-regulations, the first by the safety regulation in January 2004 and the second by the ordinary regulation in 2005. I want to show that the opposition is against this security provision. The government’s proposal involves an increase in the basic amount of a total of NOK 2374. This gives an average increase in G from 2002 to 2003 of 4.73 pst. As a result, the pension for single minimum pensioners will increase by NOK 4 260 per year. in 2003 and the additional expenditure for this amount is approximately DKK 4.3 billion. I would like to remind you of the discussion about the famous 1000-pocket of the country's smallest pensioners in 1997. The Government's proposals in this matter, as well as the changes in the coordination rules, will increase the income of a minimum pensioner couple in 2003 by NOK 12 984. It is quite obvious that the settlement that the government parties, and the government, have presented here, makes the pensioners the income earners of the year. From this, government parties believe that the guidelines have been followed by 100 pst. The opposition believes that due to the estimate in the revised national budget, a base of 4.4 pst should be added. for the growth of earnings in 2003, where they have, according to the guidelines, corrected for ‘special circumstances’. They then calculate a correction of 0.1 relative to the effect of the teacher's settlement. I have to ask the opposition parties what is the fundamental difference between the special skills resulting from the teaching arrangement and the special circumstances resulting from the overhanging of the additions given to individual groups in 2002. Once again, I would like to remind the opposition parties that in the adopted guidelines, proposed by the same parties, there is also a clear reference to the other income policy approach. I have to ask the same parties where their proposals will show consideration for income cooperation. Or, in other words, where in the opposition's proposal and in the demands of the pensioners' organizations is solidarity with the unemployed? Large employee groups have shown that solidarity in this year's settlement. It is a paradox, then, that when the Storting has the ability to directly influence income policy cooperation, it does the very opposite of what one expects of others. The slogan «fight against unemployment» is case number one and will be without substance when one is unable to follow this up in practical policy when it requires political courage. This is the difference between the proposals of the government parties and the opposition. For the sake of the unemployed, we choose to give pensioners a guarantee that they get exactly the same thing as other groups, but through an additional back-up clause equal to the state employees. However, the danger is that the new guidelines and the whole discussion institute will be undermined by the fact that the Storting does not measure whether the guidelines have been followed, but in detail directly provides directives on the outcome. As a result, there will be no basis for discussion, as organisations would rather negotiate directly with the Stortinget. In the consultations with the Committee, the organisations themselves expressed their strong concern at the importance of the discussion institute. But if it's going to survive, it also has to have a content. The regulation of the social security scheme is not just about the income development of the country's pensioners. Each fourth crown of the State budget is linked to the amount of the basic amount. It is therefore essential that, in the context of the revised national budget, the government parties and the Workers' Party have agreed to pay the krone for what this year's settlement costs extra in relation to what the Government had planned. This means that one does not push the bill ahead of future generations. We are all faced with a major challenge as a result of the gap between the cost of popular protection and the state's coming income. This challenge is now under consideration by the Pension Commission. Once we've recognized this, there's a point not to increase the gap between the expectations and the possibilities of meeting them. We therefore have a common responsibility not to push decisions that may seem politically difficult today, ahead of us to our descendants, so that their problems become so great that they have to make changes that have dramatic consequences for the welfare society that we all want. With this, I will address the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e152	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e155	In conclusion, I am going to take part of the moments in the posts of the representative, but I simply have to let myself calm down a bit with my own post before I reply to some of those recordings. The current treatment of the social security scheme is characterised by the fact that the Committee has recently examined St.meld. No 32 on social security guidelines. In that case, a firm principle of what Stortinget expected to be presented when the Government was going to present the document that we have today for consideration. One of the principles established was that, with regard to the estimate of what would apply to the expected wage development of employees in total, the majority of the population, all except the government parties, pointed out that one would use the corrected estimate resulting from the revised budget. Here the government itself had estimated that this salary increase would be 4.5 pst. When the bulk of the population gives such clear leadership to the Government about what one expects to be presented, it is with some surprise that the government council responsible for the social security system does not seem to care about these clear leadership. It has been decided by Stortinget that the two previous years' lag should be taken again before a start on this year's discussions. In this context, it is considered that the lag from 2000 to 2001 was 0.6 pst, while the lag from 2001 to 2002 was 0.7 pst. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Party of Advances, refers to the special composition of teachers which has taken place as being so special that this cannot be taken into account in the average of wage developments. On this basis, the majority, all with the exception of the Progress Party, proposes that the under-regulation for the period 2001 to 2002 be set at 0.5 pst. and not 0,7 pst., as proposed by the Progress Party. Although the new adopted social security guidelines have opened up the possibility of correction for special circumstances, the Progress Party believes that the special teacher settlement covers so many workers and contains more elements than just those relating to increased working time, that we believe that this settlement should not be excluded. There has been a great deal of confusion and uncertainty among pensioners as to whether a person should be under-regulated in the previous year or whether this should only be re-regulated with effect from 1 May 2003. Confusions include: to a large extent created by the country's Prime Minister, who himself in the form of various opinions, among others. uses the term ‘payment’ for these under-regulations. The Contracting Party has proposed that such a post-payment should be made in connection with the treatment of Innst. S. No 223 for 2002-2003, but this proposal was supported only by the Progress Party and the Centre Party and was therefore voted down by the majority. The Progress Party also proposes that, in the case of expected wage growth for professionals in total, the estimate made in the revised budget should be taken into account and not be corrected for the after-effects of teacher training. This means that this salary increase is set at 4,5 pst. Against this background, the Progress Party supports the proposal that the basic amount of the population’s security be set at SEK 57,396 with effect from 1 May 2003. The government's policy towards Norwegian pensioners is under any criticism. In spite of the fact that the majority of the population have pointed out that, in the case of discussions with the organisations, the Government's estimate, revised for the expected wage development of professionals in total, should be taken into account, suggests that a 4 pst wage increase be taken into account. This is not sustainable, and especially when one also sees that the Government makes significant increases in ownership in the revised budget. Through constant under-regulations of the basic amount, by a number of different governments, one has come to the conclusion that current pensions are relatively lower than expected at the time of the introduction of the population's population in 1967. At the time of the introduction of population protection in 1967, it was assumed that when the system was fully developed in 2007, the pension would be two thirds of the employee income. With the progress made in the under-regulation of the basic amount, it is quite clear that it is no longer possible to achieve this if one does not take a force on the evolution of basic amounts. Although it may not be possible to develop the basic amount in order to achieve the target in 2007, it is important that the current emphasis on long-term developments is significantly greater than that which has so far been the case. The Progress Party will, at a later stage, come back with proposals for a rapprochement plan, so that pensions will be more in line with what was the pre-requisite for the introduction of popular security in 1967. The representative, Höie, asked in his speech where solidarity with the unemployed from the pensioners becomes, and then the representative, Höie, showed how much a pensioner couple will get in more income, and how much they will get in this society. If the representative, Höie and his colleagues in this room, had been more concerned with the problem of unemployment by facilitating the business environment, what the representative had in mind could have been held. In addition, when one looks at the increase in the percentages of sick people to which it is added in this country from the sitting government, the claim is not, in fact, at all for believers. When we have also participated in debates in this Chamber on other social security schemes, and among others. I have to say that I am surprised by the fact that the game has the right-hand position regarding the 1000-notes of the minimum pensioners. But this is, after all, a party that is always voting in favour of the proposal on social security that exists and that does not make its own proposals at all in that context. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal of the Advance Party included in the vote. If our proposal falls, the Progress Party will give its support to the Committee's position, which is, after all, considerably better than the proposal promoted by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e185	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e188	The regulation of the basic amount means much too many people who live on a pension — whether it is an old age pension or a disability pension. For many of these, it means that it becomes a simpler everyday life, and that a thing to keep its financial obligations. At the same time, this regulation means increasing expenditure on the government budget this year and has strong ties for the years to come. It is important for Stortinget to take inward that more than every four kroner in the State budget are allocated to expenditure affected by the regulation of the basic amount. The Christian People's Party will help those who need it the most, and would have liked the arrangement to be more focused, so that it was the smallest pensioners who got the largest payoff. We are also, like the other parties, concerned that pensioners with social security pensions should not be suspended in wage developments. That is why we voted for the new social security guidelines to provide pensioners with income development in line with the active labour force. The Christian People's Party thought the government's offer was good. This would give an increase in the basic amount of NOK 2374, which means that the basic amount would be NOK 56 544 from 1 May this year. The government has for a long time announced that it should be compensated for the delay for the period 2001–2002. Reregulation is calculated as the difference between total real wage growth and expected wage growth corrected for particular circumstances. This means that the total wage growth is to be corrected for additions in the pay statements of the teachers, which are estimated to be 0.2 pst. of the annual wage growth. The deregulation from 2001 therefore amounts to 0,6 pst. and from 2002 to 0,5 pst. This was agreed in the negotiations. There was no agreement on an increase in the basic amount of popular fear by 4 pst. from 1 May of this year. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to clarify that pensioners' income development was guaranteed by the post-regulation provisions of the guidelines. According to the agreement on income policy cooperation, the growth of wages and salaries this year is to be measured by the competitive sector. If the difference between this and actual wage growth in industry increases, this difference shall be remunerated and remunerated as from 1 January next year. In addition, pensioners were offered compensation from 1 May 2004 for any difference between total wage growth in 2003 and the wage growth in industry. With this safeguard clause given to pensioners, the Christian People's Party believes that the Government has followed up what was adopted on social security policies and ensured that pensioners are at least in line with developments in working, corrected for special circumstances and in line with the principles and objectives underlying the implementation of the other income policy framework. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that pension settlement is within the framework of the income policy approach. At the same time, it is important that one does not get into a situation where the growth of pensions contributes to increasing wage growth. For us, it is also of great importance that the negotiating institute is real. It should not be the case that the Stortinget meets the demands of the pensioners each year. I had thought that this was also in line with the intentions of the Workers' Party, and that we had come to an agreement. It seems that the party is not entirely in agreement, when about at the same time as the release of this year's social security settlement reads in our country that the former Minister of Finance of the Workers' Party, Sigbjørn Johnsen, who is now the head of the Pension Commission, says that it can be too expensive to hold on to today's pension schemes, and that it will be very difficult to make the commitments in the future, since the number of pensioners increases, and they live longer. Although the Joint Organisation of Disabilities at the hearings was satisfied with the offer made by the majority today, it is strange that the Progress Party still wants G to be 4,5 pst. and not even corrected for the salary settlement of 0,1 pst. I guess a lot can be explained by the fact that we're in an election year. Despite this offer, I am pleased that the government parties together with the Advance Party have increased the basic pension for couples and consensual residents from 0.75 G to 0.8 G from 1 May this year. For the minimum pensioners, this gives an increase of $12,984. They deserve that. This has long been an issue for the Christian People's Party about equality and equivalency.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e218	The leaders of the social security settlement of the year were actually laid last autumn when we dealt with the state budget for 2003. I mean, budget-inner. No 11 it is proposed for Decision VII: ‘The government is asking for the regulation of the basic amount of the population’s income to be regulated at least in line with the wage trend of the economically active.’ We wanted the Government to come back with guidelines on social security arrangements and the Institute. When the government came back with it in one must be able to call twelve hours, a record could be made that the government instead of choosing the formulation that the majority of the Social Committee had made, and the majority of the Stortinge continued to be based on an income development ‘in line with’ the development of active workers. When we dealt with the guidelines, the majority in Stortingen amended this again, so that now it says that pensions are to be regulated ‘at least in line with’ wage developments. We also assumed that one should focus on wage developments for all groups, i.e. ‘total wage earners’, as it says in the adjustment. The calculations shall be based on the existence of pensioners from all groups of employees and shall be based on the average. So we said that special circumstances should be taken into account, and ‘special conditions’ specified so that the wage development of individual groups that are not only due to pure pay supplements, but may also be due to changed tasks or changed working hours, should be corrected for. We also specified that the delay should be introduced at the start of the discussions. We believe that in the Center Party in retrospect could be much more tidy than what we have today, and there should be no doubt about which part of the regulation of the basic amount is due to post-regulation, and what part is due to regulation based on expected wage growth. Now, when we register that the government is coming back with an offer that, for the sake of the chase, is in line with what the majority said, we are satisfied with it. The under-regulation, due to the settlement made in 2001 under the direction of the Stoltenberg Government, is regulated by 0,6 p.m. and the back-regulation for the settlement in 2002 is regulated by 0.5 p.m. It's adjusted for the so-called teacher package. So that's okay. But it becomes more remarkable when the government in the revised national budget points out that the expected wage growth will be 4.5 p.m., and then comes with an offer to the organisations at the social security settlement negotiations of 4 p.m. Although corrections are made for special cases, or ‘special circumstances’, the offer from the Government to the organisations is too poor when it is only 4 pst. This has a majority consisting of the Centre Party together with SV and the Workers' Party corrected for. The majority have said that at least there must be an offer of 4.4 p.m., and then it is adjusted for that part of the teacher's package that still affects this settlement. There is also a question of how long this teacher package will take effect. I think it should be possible to look at how long such adjustments will have an impact on social security. By offering a regulation of 4.4 pst. at the end of the year, the Centre considers that pensioners are subject to social security regulation at least in line with the expected wage increase. And we are satisfied with that. The representative, Höie, said that the solidarity of the minimum pensioners with the unemployed was called for. This means that the representative will set up two groups of low incomes and low payability against each other. I don't think so. I think it is gratifying that we can now increase the basic amount of population protection from 1 May this year to 56 861 kroner, and that the average increase in the basic amount from 2002 to 2003 is 5.13 pst. It's important that we can get some good settlement for the pensioners, based on the historical aftermath that has been there for a long time. The representative of the Progress Party referred to Innst. S. No 223, where we and the Progress Party agreed to be able to make the follow-up regulation from 2000 to 2001 in the form that it would be paid before the settlement. We didn't get a majority for that, and we have to take note of it. But in all, we think it's a good retirement stoppage this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e245	The Coastal Party marvels at this Government. They have such a high-level view of humanity that it seems restrictive in relation to whom they can enter into formal cooperation. However, it is the unworthy partner and supporter of the Government who, together with the majority in this Chamber, acknowledges that money has to be given to enable people to live a decent life. It's preferably people who come to the country as immigrants, who are covered by the Highness of the Government's view of humanity. The coastal party finds it totally incomprehensible that these should be blessed with more statutory rights to minimum wages and housing support than the country's pensioners, who have paid their social security contributions over a long life. What about the slogan "Do your duty, demand your right"? The size has decided that immigrants on the introduction programme should have a statutory individual income from the country of 2 G plus housing aid, whether they have wealth or employee income, and whether they live alone or with others. What about these people? What obligation have they done, and what right do they have to demand a better counting than the pensioners? But that's what we've decided in this room. The coastal party finds it totally incomprehensible that the Stortinget actually believes that pensioners can live a worthwhile life for less than the young migrant workers can, and we find it striking that this is not shown in the overview on pages 1 and 2 of the adjustment. Is it perhaps that the government expected this to be overlooked in silence, and that pensioners and dissatisfied persons would not get the price of a worthy life for them below the price of a dignified life for newly arrived immigrants? The coastal party believes that this is an injustice that should be corrected as soon as possible. The Coastal Party records that the Government is assuming an expected salary increase of 4.5 p.p., but was not willing to give pensioners the same wage growth, despite the fact that the Storting has decided that the government’s negotiating room in the social security settlement is above, and not below, average wage growth in society. Now the Stortinget has pressed forward 4.4 pst. upgrading G, is at the bottom of what Size has decided. But with the evolution we see in society around us, it can still be the right number in relation to what wage developments really are. The Coastal Party is not in the Committee, and we experience time and time again that our support for the best possible retirement stoppages is happening. We are part of the majority who are now adopting a retirement stop adjustment that is above the government's offer. We have programmed that pensions should be re-governed to the level foreseen at the time of the adoption of the law on popular security in 1967. The aim was to ensure that the combination of tax age reductions, the adjustment of the basic amount as wage developments and additional earnings earned should ensure that pensioners would not have a dramatic fall in living standards after the end of the working day. The size has changed the rules of the game along the way, and today's pensioners experience the dramatic standard of living that the combination of popular and tax systems would guarantee against. Minimum pensioners do not pay direct taxes, but people who have arrived at the repair age and who like to live in a dwelling that has arrived at the repair age are hit pretty hard by indirect taxes, and they are hit by rent and property taxes on their private homes. Pensioners also often get large repair costs in connection with dental health. Bad dental health also has effects on the overall health status. So the teeth aren't part of the body! The teeth are treated differently than an arm, foot or finger. This has not been taken into account in any part of the budget. The coastal party believes that dental care should be phased into public health provision. It would mean a lot to the retired and the underprivileged. The share of the total tax payment is now greater on the indirect tax than on the direct tax. Not least, most people noticed when the government's failure to control the power supply sent the electricity price to heaven in winter – with VAT! The Coastal Party is primarily in agreement with the Progress Party in this matter. Subsidy, we support the majority's proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e269	What the Storting is doing today is something quite unusual; for the first time the Storting is denying a government proposal for social security settlement. In many ways, one crosses a border in relation to the division of labour between government and large-scale development. When the Storting has to do so, it is because the Government has chosen in a spectacular way to ignore the clearly expressed intention of the majority of the population not only of the population, but also of the majority of the population, of how the intention of the generation of income of pensioners is to be implemented. Over several years, the majority of the population has pointed to the under-regulation of the basic amount and the backward decline in pensioners' incomes and to the contrary to the Stortinge's intention that pensioners should follow other developments in income. This has been correctly expressed in different ways: developments in line with, albeit in line with, at least in line with, but at the same time it has been a clear intention to put an end to the systematic underregulation and to get guidelines on social security provision that ensure this. The discussion of how the guidelines should be understood — and disagreement on their interpretation — has given governments a space for action and made it difficult for the Storting to intervene, even when its intentions have not been followed up. This was clearly demonstrated by the last year's social security settlement, where there was not only disagreement between the Government and the organisations, but also between the organisations, a disagreement about how to understand the guidelines and the concepts used there. In order to avoid such discussions, an overall Committee asked the Government to propose new guidelines and submit them to the Storting well in advance of the settlement of the year. Proposals for guidelines were due to wait, and the Labour Party leader then had to ask for it. Nevertheless, there were no proposals for guidelines before the revised budget. In reality, this was a provocation, and the Social Committee then had to carry out the examination of the guidelines in order to have the necessary tool to ensure the social security population at least in line with employees and to ensure compensation for the delays in 2001 and late 2002. The majority of the population was also very specific about how expected income development was to be understood, and based on the Government’s own estimate as set out in the revised national budget. The guidelines from Stortinget were therefore entirely concrete and should not be a basis for misunderstandings or discussion. It was therefore with great surprise that one on 19 May found that there was once again a break in the social security settlement between the Government and the organizations. The guidelines agreed on – they were quite concrete. Nevertheless, the Council of State chooses to submit proposals for a social security settlement which clearly contradicts the expressed will of the Storting. With this kind of rematch from the Council of State, the Storting has to put its foot down and go to the historic step of denying the Government's proposal for social security settlement. But also in a positive way, this social security provision should be historic and should involve a roadblock, in the sense that future pensioners will be guaranteed income development at least in line with wage developments elsewhere in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e286	The government suggests in St.prp. No 73 an increase in the basic amount resulting in an increase in the average basic amount from 2002 to 2003 of 4.73 pst. It is in line with what was presented to the pension organisations during the discussions, and it is clear in line with the guidelines adopted by the Stortinget for social security settlement. The government has focused on three aspects of the year’s settlement. The first is respect for the Institute and the form of settlement. We understand the big debate about the guidelines to you that there should be real discussions, not mechanics. I would like to quote the representative of the Workers' Party in the debate on the guidelines, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who said: "But I would like to make some clarifications. Today, the size does not adopt an automatic indexation of the basic amount of population protection. Discussions between the State and social security organisations shall continue.» The discussion institute was supposed to be real, and we paid great attention to the fact that there should be real discussions. We also put great emphasis on reaching an agreement with the pensioners and their organisations. The Institute itself depends on it in many ways. Unfortunately, the discussions became difficult, and the distance turned out to be too large. You can wonder why it was like that -- I'll come back to that a little bit. The second point the government stressed was the readjustment of pensions. This point was then agreed with the organisations, although – a surprise – there was disagreement on the basis of the calculation. The third point on which the Government stressed, which proved to be the most difficult to achieve, was to view social security as part of the overall income policy approach. I would like to remind you that in the guidelines to which reference has been made in the debate today, it is clear that the settlement will be carried out ‘in line with the principles and objectives underlying... the other income policy approach’. That's part of the guidelines. There has been a broad consensus between the social organisations that the competitive sector must provide the framework for wage growth elsewhere in society in the current year, and the Government believes that this should apply to all income settlements. The size of the stock is to be dealt with later today in the national settlement and in the agricultural settlement. There, cooperation in income policy has been established. In the view of the Government, the same must apply to the social security scheme. The government believes that this had to be reflected in our offer. The offer made by the Government to the organisations will provide an increase in revenue in line with the estimate for the competitive sector. At the same time, the separate regulatory clause will ensure that pensioners do not have to wait until 1 May 2004, in the event of non-compliance. In this way, the Government clearly believes that both the wording ‘at least in line with’ and so on. and the formulation of the income policy approach was met. We still can't see any other way both of these considerations could be met. I have to say I am particularly surprised that the Workers' Party disregards the part of the guidelines on income policy. The scheme proposed by the Government will collectively imply that pensioners in the form of G-regulation and in the form of the special supplement for spouses and cohabitants adopted this year receive an income increase of 5.2 pst this year. It will make the pensioners ready for the income gains in the total income statement of the year. They deserve to be winners. But that they would have another 0.4 pst. at the top of it, it is difficult to reconcile with income policy cooperation. I therefore regret that a majority of the Social Committee does not end up with the Government's proposals. Finally, let me link a few comments to the negotiating/debate institute with the organisations. Both pensioners’ organisations and the Stortinget have indicated the importance of the discussion institute. The Government agrees. However, on the basis of the decision of the majority of the population today, there may be grounds for asking questions about the scheme itself. What negotiation card does the Grand Government's decision today provide for next year's social security discussions? It is impossible to conduct discussions with organisations if you do not have the Storting in your back. If the organisations can count on the Stortinget as an appeal body, you can go to if you do not get through the negotiations with the Government, yes, then we have to assess whether this is a system that is life-created. I don't want to conclude here, but we have to consider the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e318	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e321	The Council of State now claims that the majority of the population with today's decisions are breaking up with income policy cooperation. Income policy cooperation is a broad cooperation with which the state is an absolute party, but with which a number of employee organisations and, of course, the employers’ side are involved. It is well known that today's bulk population is going to adopt what they're going to adopt. I must say that after it became known, I have not heard a single representative from the social partners who has spoken negatively about the attitude of the majority. At least the LO manager has not said anything negative, and I have not registered that the NHO management has been out criticising the bulk of the population. I cannot point to a single representative from income policy cooperation that is now negative. So my question to the Council of State must be: is it just the Council of State that has a problem with this, or is there anyone else in income policy cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e330	I have not heard of so many organisations that have expressed themselves in praise of the bulk of the population either. The central thing is that all the social organisations have concluded an agreement stating that the supplements agreed for a representative part of the competitive sector are to be normative for the other settlements. That's what we've been following. When the State, the Government, concludes an agreement with the social partners, we comply with that agreement. Otherwise, I think it might be natural to ask the question back to the Labour Party, which, as far as I understand, in the context of the treatment of the revised national budget tomorrow has intended to return to the fight against unemployment as the major issue for Norway today. So do we. And we believe that a implemented income policy scheme that ensures that Norway can be competitive, and that also ensures that pensioners can receive income not only for the next year, but also in the future, is more important than 0.1 G or 0.2 G in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e337	The Council of State says in its statement that since the Stortinget does not now adopt the scheme that the Government has put forward, it is important to consider whether there is any point in moving forward in this way in the area of social security. I would then just like to remind the Council of State that the social security settlement is to be adopted in Stortinget. It's the Stortinge that decides. Thus, Stortinget also has the opportunity to say what Stortinget will do in that case. That's what the majority has done now. My question to the Council of State is on the signals sent from this Chamber in connection with the examination of the social security policy, where it was clearly said that when it came to the estimate of wage growth, a person would use what was in the revised budget of the Government itself, and said 4.5 pst. Nevertheless, on the same day, the Council of State is tabling a proposal for 4 pst. to the organisations. Is there anything in the comments from the majority of the population that the council did not understand, which made him unaware that it was going to be 4,5 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e344	Since a majority in the Grand Duchy now assumes that it should be 4,4 pst. And not 4.5 pst., well, that gives itself the answer. It was made quite clear that what was meant was expected wage developments, adjusted for special circumstances. In addition, I would like to remind you that one of the representatives of one of the parties involved in the majority comments, namely Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, in his statement clearly opened up the possibility that the Government could justify its position with a different salary estimate than that contained in the revised national budget. We have carefully explained in the proposition how we believe that our offer is in line with the guidelines and comments and the big debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e351	The council said in its speech that it is impossible to carry out discussions without having the bulk of the population in their backs. But that's not right. Governments now have a clear majority on their necks, and their necks are known as part of their backs. Otherwise, I would like to point out that the Council of State said in its statement that an offer had been made to the organisations that were clear within the guidelines. But what's obvious here is that a large number of people perceive that it's not clear within the guidelines. Otherwise, the offer of social security settlements that the Government has made had not been accepted today. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: is it such that in its interpretations the Council of State bases the interpretation of the majority of the population, or does the Council of State consider that he can base his own interpretations, across the majority of the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e360	Of course, there should be interpretations with which the majority of population can live, which have to be based. But it is the government in negotiations that will try to interpret these guidelines. And the guidelines – just to remind us – are not as clear as the large number of people now want it to be, among other things. because income policy cooperation can easily conflict with other aspects of the guidelines. When it comes to the question of why the majority of population is now overtaking the government, it is possible that it may have to do with our guidelines. But I think perhaps the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, was in for something much more correct when he said that it was related to the Workers' Party getting so much criticism last year that they had supported the social security settlement. So I think we're going to look for the explanation there, rather than the government not having followed the guidelines of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e367	The Council of State told Norman to respect the negotiating institute and the outcome of the debate. I agree. I also made that point on behalf of the Centre Party in the debate we had on the guidelines. But the outcome of the discussion is not real for Stortinget when it becomes a breach, and with as great anomalies as it is about this year. Nor is the basis for discussion very real when it is first presented by the Government as an expected wage increase, according to the revised national budget, of 4,5 p.m. and which in the negotiations is changed by the same government to 4 p.m. It is not particularly predictable and solid as a basis for discussion, nor is it a result for the Storting to take a stand. The Council of State also said we should have a settlement in line with other wage settlements. That's right. However, this safety regulation on 1 January is not in line with the adopted guidance adopted by the majority. Where, for example, the Council of State is located. the provision of a back-up clause in the adopted guidelines?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e375	As explained in the proposition, our proposal for 4 pst. in reality 4.13 p.m. We also believe that we have documented that the relevant, corrected wage development, corrected for specific conditions, comes down to 4.2 pst. and then the hedge provision comes in addition. We then clearly believe that this is in line with the conditions. So the question about the organisations and their demands and the discussion institute in the lengthening of the question. I would like to remind you, and it says a little about Stortinget as the Board of Appeal in relation to the discussions, that the organisations in the protocol have not even accepted the reregulation that the majority of the Stortinget is now saying is completely in line with the guidelines. We came into consideration with a reasonable way of dealing with the discussions because the Stortinget was understood there that there was actually not to be real discussions, but that it was to be a decision that was either made in advance in the Stortinget, or was to be taken after the Stortinget as the Board of Appeal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e382	The Council of State repeatedly repeats that the problem of this year's discussions was the Stortinget. A government council that defines Stortinget as a problem will soon have a problem itself. The Council of State is concerned with the nature of the negotiating position to be held by the Government and the Council of State in next year's discussions. Based on all that I have heard from the Council of State today, I will primarily use this line to give advice. I think the Council of State in advance of the social security settlement next year is making fun of going more in itself than looking for problems here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e389	Let me make it clear that I don't in any way see Storting as a problem. The size is an institution that I have the greatest respect for. This is not where the problem lies in relation to social security. On the other hand, some parts of the Storting may represent a problem. What I have tried to suggest is that the Workers' Party's attitude to social security has been a major problem in relation to this matter, because the Workers' Party has clearly needed to try to correct something they perceived as a problem in connection with the social security settlement last year, namely the tradition of accountability. The reality of this year’s settlement is that the Workers’ Party has opted for a populist solution instead of the responsible line that has made it possible to pursue a income policy and a set of negotiations over the years in this country that has held Norway on a somewhat rough course. I find it sad that the Workers' Party has given up its line of responsibility, but I am quite sure that the Government and the Stortinget will still be able to keep Norway on a rough course.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e398	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e403	I'm not going to talk about the heads or the percentages. I record that the opposition and the government parties have a somewhat different starting point for their percentages and amounts – I just register that. It was Bent Höie's post and his argument and reason for using the figures he's doing, which made me take the floor. It is quite daunting by the Right Spokesman when he goes very far in suggesting that a fairly good settlement for social security and pensioners jeopardizes income policy cooperation, as well as making minimum pensioners and people living on poor social security benefits the main responsibility for increasing unemployment. This isn't just completely unreasonable and rude, but it's very politically revealing. When the right starts to use the word ‘solidarity’, a listener shall carefully. Then this term would like to have some special content. It strikes today again. The solidarity of the Right Society shall obviously go hand in hand with a group that has difficulty — the unemployed and those threatened by unemployment — and another group that does not have more than they need, those who live on social security benefits and pensions. According to the Right, this must be in order to save approx. $0.5 billion on the state budget. That in the same state budget, for example, Putting NOK 1.5 billion right in the pocket of the richest through zero tax on dividends in addition to other taxes on high pay, doesn't seem to worry Right for a moment. It is then necessary to ask the Right whether the wage increase contained in this tax exemption does not have an impact on income policy cooperation and unemployment. Or is the need for increased purchasing power of this group, wealthy shareholders and others, so urgent that it is necessary to ignore other negative effects? Bent Höie’s contributions illustrate in an excellent way the sea of difference between Right and SV’s social policies. Where the Right wants the greatest possible justice between groups that are already in need, the SV want reconciliation between those who have more than enough and those who are struggling financially.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e416	In this case, I will not even try to explain to Sigbjørn Molvik the relationship between having tax freedom on dividends and having available capital to create jobs in that country, or to repeat once again that the tax reliefs that this government has provided have been tax havens for just doing something about unemployment and facilitating the business situation in that country. If this government's policy had not been pursued in the last few years, there would have been, in fact, an absence that I believe none of us would have known of today. Many have said that I said that the minimum pensioners had to show solidarity with the unemployed. What I said was that the pensioners' organizations and the opposition to the Storting through this settlement have not shown solidarity with the unemployed. I repeat the question to the opposition parties: Where in their proposal for settlement is the result of the guidance on taking account of income policy cooperation? Where in the proposals of these parties is there at all a slight hint of recognition that there is a need to keep revenue developments in check this year for the sake of the unemployed? So to the representative Hildeng's posts. She says you break an important barrier. I agree with the representative Hildeng that this year's settlement will break an important barrier by the Stortinget overseeing the Government in relation to the social security settlement. But then you try to create the impression that it's the government's responsibility and the government's fault by referring to the problems that arose in the social security settlement in 2002. I would like to remind you that there were no problems in interpreting the 2002 settlement guidelines that were the subject of debate. What was the subject of debate was the interpretation of the decision of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the SVs and the Central Party in the 2002 budget, where the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen on this pulpit acknowledged that they had done a bad political craft because the decision for which these parties stood was not in practice possible to interpret. The settlement guidelines were clear and did not create any problems. In fact, it is the majority of the population who, if any, before the year’s settlement have provided such clear indications for the year’s settlement that in this case they are now unable to determine whether the settlement is in line with the guidelines, but must be more accountable for the comments and opinions they themselves had before the year’s settlement. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e427	That the pensioners are not solidarity enough, is the most sympathetic and heartwarming statement I have ever heard from this pulpit. It is possible to say that the majority of the Storting, the majority in this room, including the Right, has for 28 years subdued the basic amount of the population, and actually owes significant funds to the pensioners. Bad political craftsmanship primarily from the Minister of Labour and Administration, but also from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, has made a lot of noise and confusion around social security settlements this time. Two clear majority decisions in the State budget, which were based on guidelines for the regulation of G and the follow-up for 2001 and 2002, which were to be dealt with in good time in the Grand Duchy in March, were totally ignored by the Minister of Labour and Administration, who first made a proposal on follow-up and guidelines in the context of the revision. However, the Social Committee and the Stortinget have the power to deal with St.prp. No 32 for 2002–03 in record time, and the suspension was addressed at Stortinget on 28 May this year — the day on which negotiations with the pensioners’ organisations were due to begin. The majority of the majority of the population accepted their decisions from the 2003 budgetary procedure, and it was stated from several parties in the debate that the expected wage growth for all would be 4.5 p.m. – which has been reviewed – and should be the starting point for the regulation of G during the settlement process. On the same day that the Storting made these decisions, the Minister of Administration, in negotiations with the organisations, performs to make an offer initially to regulate G of 3.9 pst., which was later increased to 4 pst. I characterize this as a provocation. It became known as a breach of the negotiations. I do not find good enough characteristics to assess this kind of political craftsmanship, but it must have been the Government's opinion all the time that pensioners should not get a wage development at least in line with wage developments as the Stortinget has decided twice. This is more than conciliatory, and a negation of the pensioners by this government, and in particular by this Council of State. The Council of State is also free enough to claim in the social security bill that pensioners receive a very good settlement, and justifies this in the social security message with the shortening of the state theft of pensioners' couples and joint-partners for whom the Progress Party was successfully implemented in the budgetary negotiations with this government. The curtailment of this state theft has nothing to do with the year's social security settlement or aftermath. However, when the Council of State makes use of this in its argument that pensioners have almost become wage leaders, this is an improper representation by the Council of State that underlines and confirms that the Right has never been particularly concerned with the poor in this country, nor by the pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e442	I note that the representative Alvheim believes that a group – which, on average, with the Government's proposals, will have an income development this year of 5.2 pst. – does not receive an income development at least in line with total employees, which is estimated to have an income development calculated in the same way as 4,5 pst. It's an interesting form of mathematics.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e447	I record that the Council of State did not address the security regulation – the post-regulation clause, as the representative Bent Höie called it – at the turn of the year. I again want to encourage the Council of State to refer to where it is in the adopted guidelines. I think to point out that the regulation clause is really just pushing this in front of me to have an excuse for underregulation now. When it comes to pensioners and we're solid enough with the unemployed, I keep in mind that the way to make it is unfine. As the representative Alvheim said, it is not least the pensioners who have been solidarity in our society lately in terms of wage development and ability to pay. In the case of bad craftsmanship, I have to say that it has been carried out primarily by the central people of the Government here – the Prime Minister by creating a ambiguity about post-payments in the case of under-regulations from 2000 to 2001, the Minister of Finance by not clarifying what was in the revised national budget and also the Minister of Administration, not least, by being responsible for the year’s social security negotiations. I think it's bad craftsmanship from all of these three, especially in the central areas, but in sum it shows that the government at this settlement has not intended to give pensioners a settlement in line with other wage developments. To Höie, I would like to say the following: it's probably a little untraditional to make a bet from the Parliament's pulpit, but I think that the wage trend in the period in question is going to be at least 4.4 pst. And that what the majority is going for here today is a quite realistic estimate of what we should put into retirement so that it should be at least in line with wage developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e458	The President will say that because lotterilova has just been infused, it may not be a matter of concern to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e461	State Council Norman has quoted several times in his articles here today from the post I had in connection with the Stortinget's handling of the guidelines. That post was from my side an attempt to give the Government and the Council of State an outstretched hand. It was from my side an attempt to contribute to real discussions. It was an attempt to help the Council of State have the power to discuss. With the experience I have gained today, I can assure the Council of State that this is the last time I have made such an article. When it's put out and used in the way the Council of State has now done, I'm going to learn from it. That's what I'm taking with me as the starting point for next year's settlement. There's going to be discussions, that's said by several, and what's been the core of the battle, is a lot of what's called correcting for special circumstances. It is argued, inter alia: from Bent Höie, that one of the special conditions for which correction is to be made is that last year the public employees had a very good pay settlement. It takes them into account in the year's wage development, and there is a particular aspect for which it needs to be corrected. Then I have to ask, where do you find a team that defines the large number of people who have good pay settlements as a particular relationship for which it is to be corrected? On the contrary, the Committee notes that: ‘Special conditions’ here means the development of earnings for individual groups resulting not only from a purely pay supplement but also from changed tasks or working hours.’ For example, teacher-made increased pay for increased work. But if you start to draw that if a group got a very good paycheck, we have to correct for it before the pensioners can get expected wage developments – if the government interprets the very precise remarks from the Storting in that way, I would say to the council that then we are soon in a situation where we have to take a new case about the guidelines, because then it is obvious that you won't understand. But here in the hall is the power that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e479	As the social security rapporteur, I initially tried to put in a tone as factual as possible, in the hope that there would be a low temperature, and that the matter would be dealt with quickly. I also expected that it would be appropriate from the viewpoint of the government parties. I have rarely been so wrong, and rarely has anything I have tried been so totally unsuccessful. I have to say that after hearing the government parties today, I am very surprised, because it seems that you are not taking inward the reality that exists in this house now, where a quite clear, solid political majority has laid clear leadership that the government has to deal with, and then you manage to make it clear that this is not clear enough. I heard Bent Höie pointing out that the bulk of the litter has not been clear enough. How clearly do you want the mass mass to be? Is it that you have to write it down word by word? Is it so that we have to put the amounts on the paper and write the decimals and zeros behind it? Is it so obvious that the government parties want it? This reminds us of a kind of political masochism, in which one has a burning desire to be skinned by as many parties as possible, so that one remains as alone as possible. So the government council says it's not the Stortinget and the Stortinget as an organ you have something against, but the Workers' Party, because the Workers' Party has become so populist. Then it includes the other parties – SV, the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. Everyone, except for a minority government, has become populist. But in sum, it is precisely the lack of respect for the Storting that arises. I have to say that you can argue in relation to the regulation of the basic amount of the population benefit, given that there will also be pensioners with relatively good income who get it regulated. You could have had a dialogue with the government parties to find reasonable solutions. But what both the government councils and government parties have added here is a climate that makes it possible when we come to the next social security settlement, the majority of the population will be even more careful not to have any kind of loophole, not because the majority of the population initially have a burning desire for it, but because the government parties are putting a race where they are asking for it. And to me, it's a mystery that you want to pursue politics that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e490	No, I probably don't know as much math as the Council of State, but I know something more politics. If the council had been as capable as politicians as he is as a mathematician, we wouldn't have had this confrontation with the Storting as this is put up to. It's sensational, I'll say! Under normal political conditions in the Grand Duchy, this could really become problematic for the Council of State. All he has said here today is in fact an expression of disregard for the majority of the Storting. It's not possible to behave that way! He still claims that theft of pensioners and cohabiting pensioners has something to do with wage developments this year. It certainly doesn't. It's a theft on which the state now pays something back. If really the Council of State has not understood that, I am more than stated by his political senses.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e497	Initially, I did not intend to participate in this debate. But when I sat in my office and heard the council say that he is “complaining” the decision of the Storting, I must say I was squatting in the chair. A certain order I think, after all, it must be. After having experienced Ansgar Gabrielsen in free dressage here yesterday and Victor D. Norman here today, I would recommend to the Council of State to ask for a course in parliamentary language. His statement is very close to a cabinet question. Cabinet questions are the Prime Minister's questions in this Chamber. I honestly think that there is reason to ask the Council of State to subdue its language. We still get to write it in the lack of parliamentary experience account, but after two and a half years it would have been possible to learn a lot after all.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e504	I must be allowed to say that this has been a strange debate. I think the vast majority of opposition parties have given the government councils and government parties the opportunity to get down to their legs if possible. You didn't catch that. You have every time someone from the opposition has been on this pulpit, chosen to attack the Storting and attack the opposition parties. It is strange that the Council of State does not yet accept that it is in fact the Stortningen which is to adopt the social security scheme. That's why the proposition lies here, because the decision has to be taken in this room. The fact that the bulk of the population has a different position from the government parties to the size of the regulation of the basic amount is only acceptable to the government council. Instead of attacking a party by party for irresponsibility, one should perhaps rather, in advance of the discussions that were, do a better pre-work, like, for example. – and it is quite obvious – read the Stortinge position when applying the social security policy. Had you followed what's there, the government councils and government parties would have come out a little better than they are today. It can almost seem that some people in this case view pensions as a social benefit. They're not. Pensions are actually an earned right. You pay for a plan from which you are to get back. I think that we also have to look at this new expression that has come up in the guidelines, ‘corrected for special circumstances’, because it is obvious that the government is trying to use that expression now at any opportunity it can give a lower basic amount of social security contributions. I think we have to do a new round on the social security policy. There is at least one person in this room who obviously has not read thoroughly enough what it says, namely the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e515	In danger of being perceived as provocative, I must say that we are in that case two who have problems reading. I have not heard anything from the representative Nesvik about what is in the guidelines on anchoring in the income policy structure. There are still questions asked by the representative, Höie, who has not been answered. So to Odd Roger Enoksen. I can only say quite clearly: I did not mean to use a parliamentary expression with very strong significance. So let me replace my use of the word 'complaint' with saying that I am very sorry that the Storting has not followed up the Government's proposal. So just one final remark. It is very possible that you will need a new round of guidelines and, as I suggested in my post, about the very nature of the discussion with the organisations in the area of social security. Let me remind you, in parentheses, that it's not a retirement stoppage we're discussing today, it's a social security settlement. It does not concern only pensioners, it affects all insured persons in Norway, and their interests should perhaps also have been mentioned a few times in the debate. I think, in the context of these guidelines, that we must also clarify what we mean by comparisons. Do you have to compare the same thing to the same thing, or do you have to compare the same thing to different things? To compare the income development of pensioners corrected for post-regulation, corrected for any additions to married and cohabiting persons, on the one hand, with the income development of employees in total not adjusted for similar conditions? I can't believe that the Workers' Party, and I don't think SV, believes that you should compare with different ones. We have to avoid getting into a situation where we (a) compare similar to different and (b) have a set of guidelines where one part of the guidelines makes the other part of the guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e526	Ola D. Glötvold has the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e529	I note that the Council of State has still not taken note of the fact that no doubt is now to be raised as to which part of the regulation of the basic amount is due to post-regulation and which part of the regulation is based on wage growth. So there's a lot of strange arguments here to make this a very good deal of solution: you're withdrawing a change in the coordination rule, and you're also withdrawing the total settlement. That's 4.4 pst. which is the regulation based on expected wage growth. Then the Council of State also says that he is sorry that the Storting has not followed up the Government's proposal, and then we have to discuss "lead" or "complaint". But he's still turning the rules on his head, because it's the government that's going to follow the decision of the Storting and adopted proposals, and not that we're subject to what proposals the Government makes to the Storing. It's the Storting that decides, and then it's the Government that's going to do it. At least I thought that was clear. The trust between the pensioners and the politicians is mostly refined, but trust between the government council Norman and the Stortinget has also been greatly weakened here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e536	I understand that the Norman State Council has previously said that he is «complaining» the decision of the Storting. Now he took away that expression, which, if used by the Storting, is the same as distrust, if it's in the form of decisions. Then he says that he's sorry for the decision of the Storting. I have a little bit of trouble seeing really the difference between those two words. It is still the case that the Council of State then expresses in a way that he does not accept the Storting as a superior body to the Government. That is something I regret, for the time being only verbally from the pulpit, but the temptation to do so in decisions is beginning to become quite big – quite big. It should be noted by the Council of State. I have also become aware then, and it is clear that it is also clarifying for the country's pensioners, that the main spokesman of the sitting government is tired of the fact that pensioners get a slightly higher increase in their pensions than what was proposed. So he's sorry that the pensioners get a better pension. I remember a Prime Minister who said something similar a few years ago, and I think that was among the things that the Prime Minister was later regretting. This may be the problem of the Council of State, but it may also be the same when these statements become known. And so the Council of State confirms the statements of the Minister of Finance when it comes to the settlement of the pensioners, that they should be moderate and moderate. It got a lot of attention. The Prime Minister later tried to create a different picture, but we have to deal with the responsible State Council when the social security settlement is being dealt with, and that must be a confirmation of the Minister of Finance's statements on the settlement itself. But I will finally give good advice to the Council of State, and that is that he is going to the pulpit of the Stortinge now and regret some of his statements in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e543	It's not often I'll say I agree with Carl I. Hagen, but I'll do it now. There is not only reason why the Council of State should do so, but there is also reason why the Council of State should go up and explain once and for all that he understands that it is the Stortinget that determines this matter. And if the council doesn't manage to make friends in Stortinget, he just has to figure out that the Storting decides. What has become quite clear during the debate is that the Council of State, with its calculation policy, is trying to do this only as a purely calculation example. If that's what it's about, it's clear in the proposition what the calculation should look like, so there shouldn't be any doubt about it. But it's actually another calculation that I think the government should notice, and that's a simple percentage: if you calculate percent of a small number, it becomes a small number, and if you count percent of a large number, it becomes a large number. Maybe that should say a little bit about who it was that you should get away from a few extra dollars. I remember that when this government joined, it took them, I think, exactly ten seconds to distribute about. $1.5 billion for the richest in this country. There wasn't a single concern about whether there was someone who needed this, or whether it was good for the country, or any kind of proof of anything. That's the one. The second is that the Council of State says that this settlement is not only about the pensioners, but also about the insured. Yes, it does, and that's probably one of the reasons why some of us have to fight with beaks and claws at the end to get these heads in place, because we have a government that's out to take small dollars from the insured on every occasion that comes along. That is the policy in this, and that policy is important. But I just hope now that all the country's social-security and pensioners have noticed that we have a government that doesn't treat them with a strike in line with what they've got, despite the fact that the sum of which it's to be counted as percentages, is far lower for most of them than for people else in society, and far, far lower than the salaries of the population representatives and state councils. It should also pay for a certain humility from both this hall and not least from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e550	First of all, let me just make it clear: it has not been from this pulpit with one single word that the Government will not bow to the decision of the Stortinge. That is not what this debate has been about. Of course, we will follow the majority decision taken in Stortinget today. Nor has anyone said a word that you do not benefit from the pensioners and the other insured people every penny that the Storting had to decide today to grant. That's not what the discussion is about. What I expressed regret was that the Storting had not chosen to respect the Government's proposal in the social security negotiations. I was sorry about that, not because I don't have full respect for the Storting, but because the Storting has stated that you want the retirement stoppage to happen through discussions with the pensioners' organizations. And if those discussions are to be real, those discussions will mean that the organizations actually get the influence they're going to have, the government as a contracting party must be pretty sure that you have the Stortinge's support in your back. That you also have the Storting on your neck, I take note. That's what I said I was sorry for. It was in that context that I used an expression I might not have used. But it's not a question of whether we're going to comply with the Storting decision. Of course we will. And it's not at all a question of whether we love the retired people all the good things, because it does the government parties to at least the same extent as everyone else here in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e560	It's not often you hear that from the Great Council. But it's a little strange when the government measures itself, that it's the people who have brought this case to port. It's the Biggest and Biggest majority who do it so that the pensioners can get what they need. It's not the government. And where does it belong for those who have the least to show solidarity with those who have the most? It doesn't belong anywhere, and I have to wonder a little bit when it comes to negotiating pensions for pensioners. There are no negotiations on wage increases. Negotiated between the employee and the employer. Once it's passed, it should be a matter of course that the pensioners should get the same thing. But now Stortinget has the same. It's a unanimous attitude, basically, where a majority says we should have the settlement that we get. How is it that those who have the least have to show solidarity with those who have the most? I can't with my wildest imagination understand that that's right. It's like we were going to adopt a new tax settlement. That's always the little man it's going to go out on. It's not the big ones. That is what has now been said from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e570	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has had two posts and gets 1 minute to a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e573	We still have a problem here, I believe, because the Council of State now comes up and says that he is sorry that the Storting does not follow up the government's arrangements. But it's turning the issue completely upside down, for the problem here, what has created this situation, is that the government has not followed up the Storting's assumptions for social security settlement. Instead of coming to the Chamber then and being sorry that the Storting will not take a decision that is not in line with his own assumptions, the Council of State must understand and realize that the task is not to express that he is sorry for the decisions of the Assembly. In such a situation, a Council of State must take note of the decision it then takes. And that's the only way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e581	It has not been long since the Stortinge took a decision on social security guidelines. There was a relatively heated debate between the majority of the population and the Council of State Victor D. Norman, where we asked – and we thought maybe we had understood the Council of State there – that he committed himself to following the new guidelines on social security during the negotiations. We also clarified the figures in the majority understanding of the guidelines. So it did not follow up with the Council of State, and when he now says that the Storting should have undermined the influence of the organisations, he is completely wrong. He himself did not give the organisations the influence they should have in relation to the guidelines, and that's why it was broken. So the government council now says that he and the government parties are undermining the pensioners at least as much as the others in this hall. It's actually a mistake. The government parties have proposed a lower basic amount than both the Labour Party and SV and the Advance Party, and we will of course vote in a subsidiary way for the vote – that is, the majority. So it's not like you're under the pensioners the same amount. It's a direct mistake, which of course we'll have to point out quite strongly to the pensioners and others. I understand that the Council of State believes that he has no reason to complain about his statements, or to be sorry for his own statements, when he maintains, as he did in Odelstinget in connection with changes in competition law, that he is sorry for the decisions of the majority of the population. In general practice, if a government council regrets a decision that the Stortinget will later adopt, which he thus deeply disagrees with, it will not be unnatural for such a government council to take the consequences of its own position and its own views expressed in the Storing Hall, if, despite strong warnings from the Council of State, the Storing chooses to take the decision. If there are no consequences, an interesting debate on changes in the parliamentary governance situation will be held in the future. So then the Council of State can actually try something that many people see as a cabinet question, but when he loses voting, he does not take the consequences that it was actually perceived that it was what he asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e592	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3540]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e608	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3544]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e625	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3544]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e642	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3544]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e659	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 9 and 10 are processed together. [[Footing, see page 3544]] - It'll be taken as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e688	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party and Right 15 minutes, Progress Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of a reply of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It'll be taken as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e699	There are two issues to be addressed in parallel here today, namely the agricultural settlement and the grubbing-up agreement. Both cases have an impact on the State budget for 2003 and 2004. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the parties have reached agreement on an agreement in this year's agricultural negotiations, and that this means 100 million. kr i increased frames. It is also gratifying that both organisations before agriculture took part in the final negotiations and concluded the agreement with the country. It's a good thing, and it's a good idea to get a little more carefree. The agreement currently under way is a good starting point for agriculture for a new initiative and a new optimism. It's good district policy, and it's of great value to both jobs and construction. The peasants are the foundation of many rural communities, and it is important that this group in District Norway enjoys good living conditions and secure incomes in order to be able to continue their important work in obtaining food for the country. I would also like to point out that the agreement, as negotiated, is supported by all parties on the Stortinget, with the exception of the Progress Party. It is also a strength for agriculture that he has so much in store for the Biggest. At the same time, it is important to clarify that this is a good and responsible agreement that gives an income growth in agriculture at the level of growth before other industries. In the current economic situation, it is important that this year's data has a reasonable financial framework. I assume that the majority in the committee are positive that the parties have come to an agreement, including agreed simplifications, and I am agreed on the premises on which the simplifications are based. What is important to clarify as a consequence of this is that these changes will limit negotiations somewhat more in relation to the means of incomes directly in agriculture, give economic operators a little more conservative relationships and better time for implementation. At the same time, this means that for the current calendar year, negotiations will only focus on redisposals within adopted budgetary frameworks and any disposal of transferred amounts. The Ministry of Agriculture is thus authorised to implement measures in accordance with the Agreement on Agriculture, which is linked to the 2004 commitments. More specifically, we see that even if the frame is only about NOK 1500 per person. annual work, facilitating an increase in income for agriculture of about 4 p.m. It corresponds to the level that society has set this year for a moderate wage settlement for all groups. At the same time, there are several other factors outside the agreement itself which also have an impact on the income trends of individual traders before agriculture. Here I am thinking about the falling interest rate, which is of great importance for agriculture based on a total commercial debt of approximately NOK 26 billion. Here it is important to note that a reduction of a percentage point on the average interest rate for all agricultural debts results in a gross cost reduction of 260 million. kr. In the last year, we have experienced a level of interest that has fallen by 2.5 p.p., and we understand that only this effect will be more significant than the amount of money paid over the state budget. Reduced interest rates could in themselves have a greater impact on the development of agricultural income than the framework of the agreement. It is quite clear that satisfactory income development in agriculture depends on good use of market opportunities, an increase in deficits and a balanced market. We see structural changes and reasonable cost adjustments. It has been shown that a stronger efficiency and structuralisation in agriculture than we have seen over several decades, in itself contributes to the achievement of both savings in the agreement and income per capita. annual work on teams as for other groups. Here I would like to express some concern about the departure we see before agriculture. I would also like to express a desire that the industry will be more able to hold on to the practitioners. For many communities, the take-off is so large that it can threaten the construction pattern. I hope in such a way that the agricultural agreement of the year will be included and ensured that in the future we will not get as much leave as we have seen in the previous year. It is also such to understand that the agricultural agreement has been concluded without any increase in the trade distorting support in relation to the WTO Agreement. There is also a desire to mention the importance of the implementation of some simplifications in drug use in the agreement this year that contribute to further differentiation and details of schemes and legislation. As far as possible, it is important that the legislation and arrangements create stability and a prudent situation for the actors. The opposite could prevent the necessary investments pending new schemes or the fear that changes to the rules might make investments more vulnerable. Simplification and targeting of instruments of agricultural policy are important for industry itself, management and policy legitimacy. Agricultural policy is national and common to the whole country, differentiated according to the different needs of the different regions. I would also like to point out that we have a WTO process, which many people in agriculture feel is uncertain about. I would like to express trust in the position chosen by the Government. I would also like to express that the Government is prepared to try to achieve a result that agriculture can live with in the future. It is also positive that agriculture has a high level of support in the population. The polls show that up to 80 pst. by the population they say they support the agriculture we have, with the transmission system we have. In a comment on the setting of the year's agricultural policy, a majority of the Committee stated that, with the efficiency we see before agriculture today, it is right that agriculture and its farmers should retain a greater share of the efficiency gain. Getting a greater share of the prize seems to inspire a more efficient future. It's positive that the grain price is reduced by 3 cents. It is compensated in relation to cereal farmers, but I would also like to say that the Food Committee notes that the reduction in the cereal price must lead to lower prices of feed, which is an important input into agriculture. The clean-up agreement is one of the most important operational routes to follow up the objectives and guidelines of the clean-up policy. A key economic issue here is the development of reindeer, the definition of economic instruments, the reindeer adaptation of Finnmark and the distribution of income. The existing reindeer management agreement has a promise of 100.9 million. kr over the State budget, with a frame of 95 million. kr. A positive redistribution of the overall framework of the agreement has also been made, so that a greater part now goes directly to the individual reindeer operator. The aim is to ensure that reindeer farms are resilient both ecologically, economically and culturally. Purification is of great importance both as an industry and as a form of culture and life in a national as well as in an international context. It is therefore important to focus on the need for framework conditions to ensure that nutrition is safe, that it can be developed and strengthened. The Committee considers that the Ministry should have a follow-up to previously concluded agreements on a reduction in the number of animals in Finnmarksvidda, and that the number should be reduced to approx. 64 000 by 2005. In addition, the Committee also asks the Minister of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture to be in touch with the Ministry of the Environment to the extent that they are likely to do so and to be attentive to the trajectory in Finnmark, in order to prevent unnecessary wear and tear on nature and pasture. Against this background, I urge the Stortingen to adopt the agreements presented – the agricultural agreement and the reindeer management agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e748	Let me first say that the Labour Party agrees with the case rapporteur that we are pleased that there is a negotiated agreement, both in the case of St.prp. No 63, the grubbing-up contract and St. Prp. No 70, agricultural agreements. With regard to the reindeer management agreement, it is important to stress that the economic situation of reindeer management is better than in several years, as the total accounts for reindeer management in 2001 show a significant improvement from the previous year. Nevertheless, the overall economic performance of the industry is characterised as weak but with large regional and local differences. We in the Workers' Party therefore agree that the main objective of the agreement is to stimulate value creation within a given framework. In this context, it is also necessary to focus on the situation of women and to follow up on the measures already taken by women. It is a major challenge that today’s production of reindeer meat does not meet market demand. It is therefore a challenge to produce enough meat, which is an excellent product, but it must be done within the ecological framework of nature. For nature sets limits, especially in West Finland. Here the Committee has a comment which must lead to the work that needs to be done. The government must have a particularly close follow-up in order to ensure a reduction in the purity in this area. According to the agreement, it is now set at 7.7 million. kr to the revaluation programme, including administrative expenditure. The majority of the Committee points out that some people do well in travel and tourism. The majority consider this to be a field of activity which should be expanded more. Experiences such as: culture-based and food tradition should be able to further develop within the value added programme. Purgatory is a strong cultural carrier, and it is important that more people, through tourism, learn about nutrition and culture. The working party joins the agreement, but believes that it is appropriate to manage the framework within which the industry must operate. The number of animals in the most heavily burdened areas must be down to a number that is in line with the limit of resistance of the wild. Something else is irresponsible and makes the industry get into trouble. There's none of us earned. So to the other agreement we are dealing with, namely the agricultural agreement and St.prp. No 70. As the situation shows, there is a large majority who are pleased that there has been a negotiated agreement. The view of the Labour Party is that there would have been a poor solution for agriculture if the State's offer had been adopted here in the Chamber with the agreement of the Advance Party, not least because the State's offer had a profile where one wanted to stimulate even greater use. The members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre point out that the negotiations have resulted in a more moderate structural development. There is no doubt that agriculture has been and is undergoing a major transformation. It is such that now nine uses are put down every day. There's a no-parallel take-off, and there's a scary scenario where this can end. In addition to the national challenges, we are also facing difficult WTO negotiations. In this context, I refer to the Labour Party's contributions to the debate on the Foreign Minister's statement on Tuesday, June 17th this year. The Labour Party wants it to be agriculture throughout the country. This is not least because we want Norwegian-produced food, we want to maintain the settlement and maintain the cultural landscape. It's the settlement and the cultural landscape that shows that our towns are alive. The cultural landscape is also an important export article. Our nature, the open plains and the valleys will many tourists like to experience. We now see a tendency for it to grow again. I agree with the Council of State in what he has said, that we must prevent this. But it has been necessary for us in the Workers' Party to say that this cultural landscape is produced by farmers in the same way as meat, milk and grain, and that it must also be so in the future. But no one will operate in the industry, if there are no income opportunities that reflect labour input. The Labour Party is therefore pleased that there is a large majority, all except the Advance Party, who say that it is natural for agriculture to retain a substantial share of the production gain. This can ensure a more acceptable and comparable development of income, while at the same time making productivity gains a driver that benefits industry. Several joint ventures have recently been established. I think that is a good solution for those who want it, and where it is practically possible. Then there is the possibility of getting an orderly working time in addition, through which you can arrange your leisure time. Today’s young people in agriculture are nothing different than other young people in this way. The Workers' Party has its own comment on the worrying developments in tenure land. We take note that only we are concerned, and that is a little bit surprising. Ownership rights are strong in Norway, but no one is worthy of 35-40 pst. of all the soil on which food is grown today is grown by persons other than the owner. The size has Ot.prp. No 79 for 2002–03 on the law on the concession by the acquisition of real estate — the law on the concession — for treatment, so that something can be clarified there. But I don't think it would have done anything if the parties at next year's agricultural settlement had looked at the matter a little bit and outlined some thoughts about the problem. This has been a Nordic problem, but it is now that, among other things. in my own county, the Nord-Trøndelag, are also large areas disused, yes actually over 25 pst. is now operated by non-owners. As I said, this is a long-term problem in the industry, but it is also a problem that the quality of the soil is deteriorating, as it has always been the owner of the maintenance. Today's government wants more use, but in my opinion says little about how the area will provide security for the farmers who invest. The investments are big. It scares you – who built a house in the mid-1970s to NOK 200,000 – to see that some farmers in joint ventures start with an investment of between 3 and 4 million. kr. Simplification of construction costs is therefore a very important part of the industry's work, while maintaining a good environment for both humans and animals. Finally, let me say that I am pleased with the clarification to the case rapporteur regarding a comment only on the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. Here we agree with the agreement of the contracting parties that there should still be a national agricultural policy to be determined during the agricultural process. I am pleased that the rapporteur makes it clear that the government parties also believe this. The background for some concern about this lies in the introduction of a national environmental programme from 2004 and regional environmental programme in each Member State from 2005. This should not be understood as a future regional agricultural policy. As I said, we want to establish this. With these considerations, we in the Workers' Party join the agricultural settlement and reindeer management agreement of the year. I then refer to the proposal to which the Workers' Party is a part of the proposal, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e803	The representative of Aud Gaundal has then taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e806	As surely as it will be spring, there will be agricultural negotiations, and just as surely it will be that the farmers will carry out an opinion poll that will show that agriculture has a broad and strong uprising among the peoples of this country. The survey tends to show the same thing every year, and I'm glad we're left with the impression that there's a strong and widespread uprising about agriculture. But I don't think that this survey takes on board that perhaps agriculture is the industry that has undergone the biggest changes over the last few years in many ways. I want to ask the question: what is important for us to have a positive development in agriculture, which is so widespread? I can start with the agricultural agreement that we are dealing with today. I am pleased that you have reached agreement on the agreement that has been negotiated and that there is also agreement here in the Grand Duchy. What I think is positive in this agricultural agreement is that what was previously largely concentrated on figures, annuals and different models is now much more focused on business, on the opportunities for development in agriculture, on diversity and on value creation. There are many points in the agreement that I could have touched on, but the rapporteur was concerned with the important points and the important figures. However, let me mention one thing that I'm a little busy with, and that's the passuse of co-operation. The parties have negotiated that the distance between participants in joint ventures can be increased to 12 km. At the same time, a majority has made a comment on the position, calling for the «flexibility of practice» legislation. It is now the case that many places in this country – among others. where I come from – there is a great distance between farms, and it is important that this flexibility is used in the practice of this contract. Another thing that is important for the future of Norwegian agriculture is the WTO negotiations. Here, too, I am pleased that there is consensus both in this room and between the ministry and Norwegian agriculture organisations. The position that we have taken in relation to these negotiations, the offensive attitude that our current state councils have had, I think is one of the most important points to ensure the opportunities for Norwegian agriculture in the future. The third point that I am convinced is very important for agriculture is the general framework conditions. When we look at the agricultural agreement as negotiated, we see that both the waste of electricity tax and the change in interest rate are important elements in the settlement. Like all other industrial activities, the importance of the general framework conditions is also for agriculture. Finally, a few words about recruitment. Recruiting new farmers is a challenge for the industry. Here I notice that the organisations in agriculture, Norwegian Farmers' Associations and Norwegian Farmers' Associations are active to get people to see what the industry and profession are all about. They are active in relation to school and the local environment. It's an effort that I think is absolutely necessary if we're to get the industry recruited. The market organisation for milk is affected by the proposition. There was a hope that this scheme would come into place during this year. Now I assume that it will be as the ministry has said, that the scheme will be established and put into place by the beginning of next year. I will end by joining in what has been presented. As I said, I and Right are pleased that we have an agricultural agreement that seems to be a broad welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e825	As a party representative, I had hoped that this year's agricultural settlement would give the necessary signals on the conversion and efficiency of Norwegian waste management. But I was wrong. The agricultural settlement passes the Stortinget without real demands from parties other than the Progress Party that policies are transformed in a comprehensive and powerful way. The negotiated agreement between the country and the agricultural organisations represents an increase of 100 million. kr and total transfers in the order of DKK 12 billion. In addition, there are shielding and other support outside the contract work. We have recorded that we have chosen to lift some of the measures out of the agreement that goes directly into the state budget. We agree, because it is a development in our direction, and because agricultural subsidies and other state economic measures towards agriculture must be seen in the context of the State budget. The results of the agricultural negotiations mean that food prices will increase. Target prices increase by 200 million in total. kr, mainly for beef. It means new doses of yesterday's policy. This will in turn inspire increased border trade, as price differences between Norway and neighbouring countries in raw materials are increasing. If we look at this in a broader context, the State Institute for Consumer Research reports that the difference in the price level of food has evolved in the wrong direction since 1994, in the eyes of consumers. Norway has become more expensive compared to the EU, while prices in Sweden have approached the EU level. Nor has the difference in food prices between Norway and Sweden decreased since Norway halved the food tax two years ago. The average food price is 27 pst. lower, and typically border products 47 pst. lower above the cooling. In this context, it is appropriate to focus on the Sem declaration’s intention to establish competitive prices in addition to reduced price differences between Norway and the EU on food. This intention is not met. I would also like to remind you that the Minister of Agriculture has stated that food prices have to go down. It is not difficult for the Progress Party to agree on this. Prices must be lowered if agriculture is to survive in some way and in a wider sense. Signals are clear: the action space for Norwegian farmers is constantly being reduced, imports of agricultural products are going to weather, exports are out, regulatory exports are being limited, and borderline leakage is growing. The cross-border trade leakage has increased by 14 pst. during the first four months of the year and estimated to exceed DKK 9 billion on an annual basis. This development must be reversed by improving the competitiveness of Norwegian farmers. The WTO process also offers a gradual increase in competition, which implies that agricultural policy must be shifted towards more efficient production, processing and marketing of agricultural products. It is gratifying that at least the food industry has understood this and is calling for an agricultural policy capable of reforming agriculture so that the overall objective can be slightly more than district policy. The industry says it is right: it is not possible to live with the increased gap in price differences between Norwegian and foreign groceries. Therefore, we have to get away from static reasoning that the farmers will continue to act as they have done until now. Starting now, it will be possible to meet the competition that could result from WTO negotiations by developing a robust agriculture that can survive in the longer term. We believe that the Minister of Agriculture should make much more use of the help provided by WTO negotiations to create a better entrepreneurial environment in the industry at home. The Progress Party is disappointed that the Government does not take a settlement with the agricultural policy management system and the legal basis of the agricultural policy. It has been a long time since the crisis in the 1930s and the introduction of regulations in the agricultural markets. For decades after decades, we've had a demonstration of a policy that doesn't work. Through generations, the political majority has set collective goals for farmers’ incomes, housing in districts, food security, and in recent years, maintenance of the cultural landscape. The regulatory systems of the 1930s have been under discussion and continued until today. Experience of more than 60 years with a regulated agricultural industry has shown that it is not possible to achieve the ambitious objectives of housing, employment and income levels. What we're left with are huge economic outlays, high food prices and restricted nutrition for farmers. State aid is more than what farmers receive in total compensation for their own labour and capital contributions. Despite the large transfers, it has not been possible to achieve one of the main objectives of agricultural policy, namely to ensure the income of farmers in line with industrial workers. The average bond continues to serve about 60 pst. by an industrial worker, approximately the same proportion as 30 to 40 years ago. For the individual farmer, the system has led to the loss of much of the commercial freedom and a strong restriction on the right to dispose of own property. Many of the most important decisions that farmers made in the past are now taken by elected bodies and public servants. We cannot decide what they will use the farm for, nor can the properties be sold at market prices. Many farmers have lost the right to produce milk, which was the main production in large parts of the country, while others have milk deliveries based on limited production quotas. The development of Norwegian agriculture is a good example of how a corporate and bureaucratic governance regime works. A highly inefficient resource use has caused dependence on large transfers of the state budget and more expensive food in Norway than in our neighbouring countries. None of the main objectives has been achieved, either the income target or the district policy objectives. It is paradoxical that after so many years of negative effects and consequences, the political majority is willing to continue this governance system and that the governance failure is being tried with new regulation. And problems get bigger the longer such a regulation regime gets allowed to work. Bureaucracies in the state and organisation have been developed and have fixed their position. Those who work in the agricultural governance system have much better information about the facts and can use them to defend what they are working on. One has doubts about a system that has so many weaknesses that it should have been abandoned a long time ago. It's perfectly obvious to everyone. It has understood our neighbouring countries, which are at full speed away from this policy, or they have established a system in the pact with the industry's international realities. A new spring is also needed for Norwegian agriculture, which is being pushed more and more into a corner. The time is ripe to provide the self-employed in the food production industry with opportunities and revenues as a result of increased competition and more efficient farm use. Then agriculture must be deregulated. The regulatory responsibility of the cooperative must be replaced by competition law in order to achieve lower consumer prices. The law on turnover and other laws preventing competition must be repealed. Furthermore, more room for self-development must be given to industrious farmers, including: by removing concessional limits in the Law on Acquired Livestock Management, removing all production restrictions, abolishing restrictions on the purchase and sale of agricultural and forestry property, repealing the housing and operational obligations under the Law on Noble and Concession and much, much more. From what has been said, it is clear that we also want to wind up the system of an agricultural agreement. It is a comprehensive and unbridled business agreement, a complex affair linked to unbridled circumstances. Today, we have an estimated 4,000 people in agriculture only in the management of grant schemes, which are available in a number of more than 100. Only a few people have the overall picture when important questions are decided. The need for conversion is obvious. For us, it will be a goal to get the most of these bureaucrats into second, more productive, work. Persons from agricultural bureaucracy should, where appropriate, find their place in the professional life after retraining, preferably through jobs contributing to economic value creation. The Progress Party will replace yesterday's solutions with agricultural policy based on market economy principles that stimulate efficient production. We will propose more effective solutions, while changing the rural policy ambitions. In other words, we also need to adapt to the situation south of Svinesund. Conditions need to be provided for national and profitable quality production based on our climatic constraints, but also based on the strength of production in one of the world’s cleanest environments. I would like to mention the proposal of the Progress Party in this setting and in the setting of the reindeer management. That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e861	Yes, it is. The representative Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e866	I think Norway had become a different country if the representative Hedstrøm had become Minister of Agriculture. Then it would probably have become a country that had somehow changed dramatically, I think, in a short time, at least if what he said in his post had been accomplished. I'm going to start talking a little bit about reindeer. There are two things in relation to the renovation agreement that I want to comment on. One thing I think is very happy, and that's that in the proposition it's set up to try to have some stimuli in relation to slaughter as close as possible to the areas where the clean is kept. We know that in relation to the quality of the meat, and not least in relation to animal welfare, the transport of reindeer that has been going on for many years has been very unfortunate. The fact that incentives are now being introduced to stimulate small slaughterhouses, and perhaps even mobile reindeer bacteria, is very positive in SV. We believe that not only does it get much better by not having the stress and the pain that being driven many miles until the slaughterhouse leads to, but it can also lead to thinking that maybe you can process more of the meat where you slaughter, and that you get more value creation. The other thing I want to comment on in terms of the reindeer management agreement is this with the reindeer number. I hope that the Council of State has a lot of attention in terms of the number of clean compared to grazing grounds, especially then in Finnmark, where the problem is the largest. We know that counting is very demanding. We know that there are different views as to whether there is too much purity, or whether it is appropriate to clean, but at least we will ask the Council of State to pay extra attention to this, so that we can also have a sustainable development in the future in relation to reindeer management in Finnmark. Then go to the farm. Just so I don't forget it: we're going to join the negotiated agreement. It was just supposed to be missing. But I still want to link a few comments to it. The representative Hedstrøm has called it ‘a waste farm’. I want to come up with some considerations about waste management. I think we have to bear in mind that it would be quite possible to produce the food for a cheaper money in Norway if we wanted to. We could have collected food production in a small part of the country and got food production more reasonable than today. I think the representative Hedstrøm is right about that. At the same time, we know that in addition to a differentiated employer’s fee, agriculture and the means we use in agriculture are enough, the most important means of ensuring a settlement that the Norwegian population wants. We want this country to be clothed by people, from North Cape to Lindesnes, and we want this country to be beautiful. We want it to be a country that lives. We want it to be a cultural landscape that we are proud of, not least those who live there, but also those who visit it, either as Norwegian tourists or as foreign tourists. And not least we want to have a standby. It's not that many years since the burnt animal carcases in England. We were threatened that we had to close the border because of various diseases. Yes, we're dependent on having areas that are kept in claim, so that we can be more seaworthy with food than what we can be if we build up agriculture. I must say that I agree with Hedstrom in one thing, and that is that we should have a change of course in Norwegian agricultural policy. I agree, but I will go in a completely different direction than the Progress Party will. I am also concerned because 3,800 annual works disappear every year in agriculture. 3 800 years, that's a very high number. In ten years, there are 38 000 annual works. Think ten years ahead: if we have then removed 38 000 annual works, we have a completely different employment and residence in Norway relative to agricultural jobs. I think Norway can never be the cheapest in food. We know that we are importing from countries that have completely different costs, which have completely different climatic conditions, which have excellent soil conditions. That we should be able to compete with those countries at price, I think, is unrealistic. But we can be the best at quality, and I think that is the track that Norwegian agriculture should go into, that Norway should be the best at quality. We know that not everyone, but more and more, consumers are concerned about this with quality. On Tuesday I visited a farmer in Westfold, who produced chickens according to completely different principles than many do, by letting them grow slower, allowing them to have a lot of good space. He operated with a completely different price, much higher price than what's usual, but sells it all, because people want that type of chicken, both because it tastes much better, because you're sure that what you put in your mouth is healthy, and because you know that these chickens have had it well the time they've lived. That's why I think the government is too passive when you don't put more emphasis on introducing stimuli to get the best on food, not the cheapest on food. The best food for me, for the first time, means that we venture into productions that stimulate it. Let me mention two-three examples. I think we should have stimulated short-term food, i.e. more food production on individual farms or in individual local environments, where the whole production from the animal was born, or the milk was milked, and until the product was sold to the consumer. The second is that one could have stimulated even more organic farming or organic farming. Many of us are still worried about the food we eat. I am aware that Norwegian agriculture has a high quality of traditional food production. But we know that there are many diseases in the world. There are many diseases also in our country, and one important reason for that is the diet we have, and it has to do with the food we eat. That's why we have to work on getting even more competent in this field. A track we can follow is to work against the ecologization of agriculture, where it becomes less and less of sprays and various substances that we are uncertain about are good for our body. I think Norwegian agriculture is facing an unusually demanding time, when we know that it disappears almost 10,000 annual jobs every year. I want to encourage the Government to have a more offensive policy to meet this. I think we can see that Norwegian agriculture is being built slowly, but surely. Not so slowly either, it's being built every year, and we're just looking at it happening. I think we're going to have a real discussion about whether we're going to have a new kind of agricultural policy that helps mitigate this development, or are we just going to accept that what's going on, that happens? SV wants the Government and the Council of State to focus more on how to save Norwegian agriculture in all parts of the country. How are we going to have a strategy that makes this steady decrease in the number of annual works and the number of use surfaces out? Then our answer is: we have to turn the focus from the cheapest food to the best food possible. We're going to be the best on quality. I refer to the proposal SV has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e896	The representative of Inge Ryan has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e900	Let me start by saying that linking the health status of the Norwegian population to the use of injecting drugs in Norwegian agriculture is at best a bombardment. To take a few examples: the population drinks more noise than milk is drinking, and the sugar and salt intake is a much bigger problem than many of the health problems we have. I should possibly have gone out and taken a cup of coffee under the articles of the Progress Party. At least it would have been good for blood pressure. One should probably not be provoked by the Agricultural Policy Spokesman of the Progress Party. One of the five Nordics actually says that they can imagine voting the Advance Party, so you probably have to. But I wonder how blind is it to remain in relation to developments in Norwegian agriculture? The share of income spent by Norwegian households on groceries goes down every year and is now down to 11.4 p.m., including non-alcoholic beverages, and 10.3 p.m. if we exclude shower and mineral water. There is one of the lowest in Europe, and this is because we have a wage and cost development in all sectors in Norway, which means that food production must also be more expensive. We find cheaper car mechanics in Sweden. We find cheaper carpenters, plumbers, electricians, and I should not be surprised if we also find cheaper dentists in Sweden than in Norway. So that's the situation we're in, and it's due far on the road to wages, exchange rates, currency conditions and pressure in the labour market. To say that no Norwegian agriculture has changed over time is completely wrong. Norwegian agriculture has changed, and we have reason to be proud of the Norwegian farmer. Norwegian agriculture is well ahead in many areas. Clean, high-quality food is produced. The health status of the livestock team is good. Norwegian agriculture contributes to our well-established cultural landscapes and housing in all parts of the country. Equally full, agriculture is facing major challenges, both in relation to increasing border trade and the demand for ever lower food prices, as we also hear from the Progress Party. WTO negotiations, failing recruitment, poor profitability and much stronger structural change than anticipated, with a take-off of use now in 5-6 pst. per 1 % years are among the challenges facing agriculture. It is necessary to provide farmers and farmers with a significant income gap if we are to maintain a viable agriculture with the capacity for innovation and maintenance of the farm. The Minister of Agriculture attaches great importance to the exploitation of the farm’s total resources and to the development of farm-related activities by the farmer. It's an ambition that I'm sharing in full. However, it is also necessary to facilitate the framework conditions for this to be possible. It is necessary to provide an economic basis for agricultural development in such a direction. It's those who have a healthy economy, who have profits, who are able to develop other industries as well. If you struggle every day to keep the bank manager away from life, have a bad economy and have a bad working community with other farmers, you will not get positive business development in other areas either. Government parties have stressed that the agreement provides the basis for a 4 pst increase in income. Nevertheless, if the agreement is to provide such an increase in income, there is reason to recall that, from the point of view of the industry, this will in any case provide a much lower supplement than that of the other industry. Secondly, there is an opportunity for such an increase in income that we have, not a guaranteed increase in income. An income increase of NOK 1500 per person is guaranteed. annual work, which is much lower than the other groups receive. It is worth taking along, and it also provides the basis for having a much stronger income gap for the industry in the future. The Minister of Agriculture emphasises competition in the processing sector as a basis for reducing food prices. I am not so surprised that the Minister for Agriculture thinks so, nor do I have any strong objections to competition in the agricultural sector. But at least let me say that under the pressure of the food industry and Norwegian agriculture, I also think it is imperative that we call for agricultural cooperation as essential for us to have agricultural production throughout the country. The channelling policy and milk balancing mechanisms must remain central to ensuring that this can be done. I therefore assume that the new market organisation for milk is in place no later than 1 January 2004, as the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV have also proposed today. Some of the arrangements in the agricultural sector have moved to the ordinary state budget, and I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture to confirm that agriculture is at the heart of the management of these funds in the future, so that we can be sure that they will be used for economic development in line with what agriculture wants in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e926	I am pleased that the Stortinget today is agreeing to an agricultural agreement concluded with both agricultural organisations. Agriculture produces goods, services and common goods in a high-cost country. The industry is increasingly facing international competition and is a capital intensive industry. Therefore, control of cost developments, more moderate wage developments in general and lower interest rates are very important for agriculture. At the same time, we now see that the development of agricultural efficiency is increasing. The development of efficiency is necessary in order to keep the production of the goods in Norwegian hands over time. These two aspects are the main reasons why the agreement has a much lower framework than in the last year’s settlement. The total frame is 100 million. kr. This represents approximately NOK 1500 per year. annual work, but is only the isolated outcome of what is distributed in the framework. But that is enough to facilitate the development of income in line with other groups, because the farmers are self-employed. They live on what remains after costs have been deducted from income. In this way, efficiency, cost development and lower interest rates have the same effect on the result as the agricultural agreement itself. We can achieve the objectives of agricultural policy in a cheaper way for society than otherwise. I think that's good. It is an important result of the actions that have been put in place, and it will make it easier to meet the challenges that are coming, for example. when a new WTO agreement has been negotiated and will be implemented. On the other hand, the efficiency improvement is that fewer uses are operated as separate units. I have noticed what a broad majority says in the position of withdrawal, and that agriculture must retain a substantial part of the productivity gain. It can be argued that with fewer active farmers, the importance of agriculture for rural settlement and activity will be weakened. At the same time, it must be said that without this efficiency, it will not be possible to have a volume-producing agriculture throughout the country. Therefore, we need to think new and prejudiced and combine efficient volume production with innovation and establishment in other areas, on the basis of the resources available to agriculture. About two thirds of agricultural property is not currently in operation. However, they stand there — for the time being — largely as attractive settlements from which it must be possible to create activity. We have taken this into account in the project I have called Agriculture Pluss, and it will require local commitment to succeed in that. That is why I am pleased that the agreement contains regional environmental programmes with considerable funding in the future. It can be seen as part of this thinking, where national leadership, local and regional, gives authority and instruments to target environmental efforts in areas where the challenges and opportunities are greatest. And the variation is great. It's fine with tailor's stitching, and it's always an advantage that the tailor has seen them she or he sews for. It has been argued that this is not a simplification and that there is a risk of developing different practices, regional and local. First of all, I would like to say that we want to focus on making processes and administration as efficient as possible. But here is primarily targeting and local involvement purpose. There can and should be some local differences. It is the intention, if it increases the achievement of the objectives and takes place within the national leadership. Both this regionalisation and the simplification of the contractual institute contained in the agreement are new elements of agricultural policy. I think both parts are right in a forward-looking policy, which is also dependent on the population's upswing. I have a strong commitment to have attractive agriculture and attractive rural areas all over the country, with a diversity of activities and nutritional bases. I am convinced that this is best achieved when efficient volume production is combined with a variety of small and small enterprises producing new goods and services for a competitive population and its tourists. I see the year's agricultural agreement in such a context, and I am pleased with the broad opening up of the agreement here in Stortinget. Then to the reindeer management agreement: the first main agreement between the State and the reindeer industry was concluded in 1976. The contract institute has thus existed for more than 25 years and has, in my view, been a good and effective instrument in the reindeer management policy. However, in order for the contractual system to remain and to have general acceptance, it is important that the annual agreements faithfully reflect the development of industry and society, in other words, and adapt to new requirements and framework conditions. I believe that this year's agreement does. Both last year and this year, the Contracting Parties have taken the initiative to further review the various arrangements for their optimal functioning in relation to the overall objectives. Grants are now being converted from schemes that have been substantially fixed per. holding, to schemes which premium production and value creation. It shall be introduced, inter alia: a production premium of 25 pst. of all taxable income derived from the industry. In parallel with agriculture, the government has decided to introduce a discount on entrepreneurial income of NOK 36000 and a percentage deduction of 19 pst. for revenues between NOK 36000 and NOK 170000. These changes, in my view, facilitate increased production and value creation from industry and thus, in the long term, greater economic sustainability. The contract framework itself has been reduced from last year. In my view, this is an important signal. The government wants to stimulate business activities that are adaptable, economically sustainable and less based on public support. The agreement provides a basis for a comprehensive clean-up policy, where the value creation is central, and where the individual reindeer must take more responsibility. Effort and creativity shall give rise to an increase in income and the incentive to deal with their own situation. It is easy to assign responsibility to the reindeer industry and to expect it to meet the challenges that exist. However, it is a fact that reindeer operations are increasingly low-priced conditions and forces where the impact possibilities are actually relatively limited. Purgatory is part of Norwegian society, which is once again part of international society. It may be increasingly difficult to cope with the pressures that are taking place in different ways. As others, clean-up operations have an obligation to adapt. However, there is a limit to the extent to which the nature and nature of reindeer management makes it possible to adapt to social developments. The authorities therefore have a specific responsibility to provide industry with the best possible framework conditions and not least to provide understanding and acceptance in society elsewhere for the specific needs of reindeer management. On the other hand, this requires transparency and interaction on the part of industry. In this way, nutrition and government can jointly lay the foundation for a viable reindeer, which has vitality and sustainability in itself, and which gives genuine faith in the future. Women have traditionally had a strong position in the reindeer society. However, in recent decades, the role of women in the industry has been significantly weakened and reindeer management has become more and more dominant. It is therefore necessary to facilitate women's participation and influence at all levels. The establishment of production-based incentive schemes shall stimulate and make visible all forms of industry input and production, and women will be able to do much. Moreover, the situation of women will be important in the context of the ongoing revision of the Law on Repurchase Operations, inter alia. In view of Norway’s commitments to ratify the UN Convention on Women. Today I have not intended to get into this much of the mess, grazing and predatory issues. It's not because it's not important issues, on the contrary. However, the focus of these issues is on processes. I am thinking here of the work on reindeer adaptations in East and West Finland, reindeer pastures and the spillage notification on deforestation policy. Of course, I am following these things with great interest. Not least in terms of renumbering, I'm excited about what the industry is doing in cooperation with the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e962	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e965	In the setting, there is a note from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party regarding the value creation program. The Minister of Agriculture is and has been a very eager spokesman for our success in that work, and places great emphasis on this work in his contribution. We know that the organisations have played a lot of part in the negotiations to strengthen business development. This applies, inter alia, to: the provision of funds, grants and loans and, in addition, the arrangements for the removal of food-development bottlenecks. I know that the tax principle has been an argument for going against the recordings that came. However, the industry has also previously found schemes through fiscal instruments. Then why were the positive and offensive recordings rejected? Or is it that the Council of State seems to be moving in the right direction and at the right pace?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e972	The result of this spring's agricultural agreement involves, with the system changes that were made, and the relocation of the agreement that is taking place, that the agricultural agreement becomes more a direct agreement on income for farmers. This means that much of the agricultural policy and things that lie in the grey areas of agriculture will be lifted and put on the public budget in the usual way. The government promotes policy proposals, new policies and appropriations, and the Stortinge will discuss and influence them. There are some who have tried to spread the view that because we have not wanted to include new initiatives outside the traditional agricultural policy other than the agricultural agreement, we do not intend to pursue a policy in this area. However, much of the industrial policy should be in the relationship between government and expansion, not in the negotiations with the organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e979	In contributions from several representatives, the market organisation for milk has been up. In the vote there is a proposal, No. 1, from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, that this scheme shall enter into force no later than 1 January next year. I remember well when we got this arrangement for the first time, and as far as I remember, all parties in Stortinget supported full competition on the milk processing side. It's part of the story that this might not have worked so well. At least some actors have complained about the scheme, as it has been available, and there has been a need to make changes. For us, this date is not so very important. The important thing is to have a transparent, functioning arrangement that all actors, including the small ones, can accept. As far as I remember, it is the Government's intention to have this arrangement ready per. 1 January, so I would like to ask the Council of State to clarify whether this is a necessary proposal. The progress party is on the verge here, and it's a special responsibility from our side.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e986	First of all, I can confirm that the ambition was to have a new market organisation for milk on 1 July this year, until Easter. We could establish at the time that there was a good deal of work left, not least to get all the stakeholders who had a great economic interest in what a new organisation would be like, to agree on this, so that we could have a stable system and as much peace as possible around it. That is why we have chosen to postpone this somewhat, so that we can add even more quality and even more work into getting a system that all the actors are satisfied with. But I will promise here that we will now do everything we can to get this in place until 1 January. I'm pretty sure we're going to do that, and we also want processes that make all actors feel good about them. There is also a minority proposal here on this, but I hope and believe that it may be possible to send it, as I am providing very clear assurances here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e995	We have a Agriculture Minister who, in the SV's view, has flagged a number of important issues. The Minister of Agriculture has said that we need to get more locally produced food, he has, among other things. talked about the ham from Skåk. He said in the Questionnaire earlier that achieving the goal of 10 pst. organic production is important for the Government. He has also talked about focusing on the quality of food rather than just this with price. These are the signals from the Minister of Agriculture that we in SV appreciate, but we think there is a long way between these words and the ambitions of the Government to achieve this. My question to the Minister of Agriculture is: Do you have any more ambitions in the future than just talking about it? Do you plan to take some heavy grips, so that you actually reach the goals you're talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1007	I tried in my post here today, and I've done it in many other contexts, to communicate as clearly as I can, that you have to understand a two-sided strategy here. We're still going to have a large and large volume production, but it's going to be more efficient, and there's going to be a lower number of farmers producing the volume we need. So we should have a strategy that many of the farmers that will no longer be part of traditional volume production can do other things, for example. have a strong focus on quality, on local products, on further processing of the products and shifting borderline barriers to traditional travel life – many things that can maintain farm-holding and production. Then the representative Ryan is concerned with short-range food. In today's agricultural system/supply system, this is not the case mainly because you specialise and transport food all over the country, back and forth. But e.g.: 1 July we open the way for the free establishment of milk production if you process it yourself. Local production will focus primarily on a local and regional market. Why this isn't done before, you can ask yourself, but at least now it's done. It just opens up for the type of production I perceive that the representative is asking for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1014	First, with what the Minister for Agriculture said in relation to the introduction of a new market organisation for milk, I would like to ask that proposal No. 1 is converted into a transmission proposal. The structural changes in milk production have taken a considerable toll in recent years. In a minority comment on page 9, the government parties are formulating themselves in a way that at least you can imagine that the changes in structure do not seem to go fast enough, and it is said that this needs to be facilitated. I could imagine challenging the Council of State to say a little about how he takes care of the milk production/average use in a five-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1024	The representative, Odd Roger Enoksen, has made the proposal to which he referred, on a proposal for transmission.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1027	Let me first say that the Minister of Agriculture also records that we are facing significant changes, it seems, in milk production. In particular, many face significant investment needs in the future. We know that very many of the milk production buildings were built at the end of the 1970s and early 1980s. There are buildings that are now facing significant investment needs again. I also record that very many farmers choose to go into cooperative and cooperative solutions as an answer to being able to get the economy into new investments. Of course, it will affect the structure in the future. On the direct question of how I think the structure will be in milk production in five years, I actually think that the development that we have, slowly, but surely will go on. Then we won't see very dramatic changes in five years, but we'll see that the average use will increase somewhat, not least in the context of the fact that there are as many co-operations as we know are under planning. But there won't be any more drama in the next five years than what I think we've seen in the last five years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1034	It was the representative Ryan who made me take this line, he mentioned among other things. This with organic food, that we were going to have bet areas here in the country, and that we were going to be good. It's very important when we have one of the world's most expensive agricultural produce, that we have the greatest possible degree of credibility. I want to get into this with organic products, which I brought up with Kåre Gjønnes several years ago, when he was Minister of Agriculture. I read in the nations a few days ago that only 20 pst. of all organically produced meat is sold as it is in the store, the rest is sold as normal meat. 39 pst. of all organically produced milk is sold as such; the rest is sold as normal milk. Firstly, there is an additional cost for consumers, and secondly, it cannot be particularly stimulating for the farmers producing this when the goods are not delivered as the product it is intended to be. Aren't we going to have to think about some systems that work, or are we going to stop paying for this production when it's not being distributed properly?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1045	Developments in the supply of organic products have gone and are moving in the right direction. The offer is constantly increasing, although we might have wanted it to increase even faster. But at least progress is taking important steps in the right direction. What is not as desirable is the development of the market for organic products. Therefore, through the instruments contained in this year's agreement, we have chosen to turn resources and focus on how to cope with increasing demand for and interest in organic products. After all, there is a development that must be market driven in the sense that consumers want it and demand it, and are also willing to pay the small extra to cover the additional costs involved in organic production. This means that we have good instruments for farmers who want to move to organic production, and that is desirable. We need to put in better instruments, which make this also hit a growing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1052	Then the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1055	I am very pleased that this year there was a negotiated agreement for agriculture, but that does not mean that the situation is good, and that the prospects are bright for Norwegian agriculture, because many users give up. No one should claim that this industry has shown a willingness to change. Those who have followed the industry and know it, know this very well. The industry has undergone a huge change over many years, and in my opinion there is soon a limit on how far the migration can go for Norwegian agriculture and how much more efficiency can be achieved in a country like Norway. Agriculture, forestry and fisheries in parts of the country are essential for the work, housing, economic development and management of the cultural landscape. The Labour Party will therefore provide the basis for a viable and sustainable agriculture throughout the country. The main task for Norwegian agriculture must continue to be to produce high-quality, safe and healthy food and to ensure a long-term food supply. This industry has always been an industry that has become combined with other activities and activities. A large number of uses continue to be used in combination with other industries and therefore this type of operation must be allowed to develop. Norwegian agriculture can never compete with agricultural cheap products from other countries. Climate, topography and large domestic variations in operational potential suggest that Norway cannot compete with other European countries at food prices. In addition, Norway is a high-cost country in all other areas. I would remind you, like the representative, Mr Enoxen, that Norway has quite reasonable food in relation to the income of consumers and in relation to consumers in other countries. The much-mentioned Swedish trade is due not only to agriculture and an excessive food price relative to income, but also to the fact that we have a higher cost level in our country. As a result, there will be errors in the continuous shooting of agriculture in this context. Norwegian agriculture is a major competitive advantage of Norway's pure nature, good animal welfare and, above all, good agricultural professionals. This is important to take care of, together with a viable agriculture, living settlements and a well-proclaimed cultural landscape. This also has a crucial role to play in the tourism industry here on a country-by-country basis. Norway must not be in a situation where we cannot maintain agricultural production throughout the country. All countries must have the right and the ability to produce national food and to produce food locally. In order to provide the entire world's population with safe and environmentally friendly food, all nations must have this opportunity. I believe that there is a broad consensus on this in Stortinget, and it must soon be possible to get broad international acceptance for it. I have noticed that the Progress Party is opposed to this negotiated agricultural agreement and does not give it support in the Stortinget, and that the party disagrees that the State will take responsibility for the production of agricultural products here to land. These are not new tones from that team, but many around the country wonder what the Progress Party really wants with Norwegian agriculture. My claim is that with the policies of the Progress Party it will not be possible to have an agricultural policy throughout the country, but this may not be so important for the party. In my opinion, the representative Hedstrøm's contributions to the Stortinget today make it clear that the Progress Party does not in any way think of districts and settlements in its agricultural policy. I am aware that we have international conditions to take into account, but I am convinced that if we want to maintain national agriculture and agricultural production throughout the country, this too will be possible within new international legislation. In any case, it would be unheard of whether Norway itself would adopt a more difficult agricultural policy than complying with the agricultural requirements of international agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1083	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1086	Agriculture is facing major challenges. I think we should convert agriculture to keep up with the great upswing that agriculture actually has in the population. I think we're dependent on an agriculture that also has ups and downs in this hall, by lending money to this. In the large international market, Norwegian agriculture does not have a chance to compete for free and raw trade. I would like to ask the Council of State about this with a spray — I was actually going to take a line on it instead. Now, the soil monitoring programme shows that it is still playing spray in streams and in water. Injectors have properties that make the toxins overwinter in Norway. This shows the Earth monitoring program. So I want to ask, what is the status of spraying today? Does consumption go down both when it relates to the number of active toxins and to the amount of active toxins? And this by bringing down the use of sprays, I think I'll agree to give more content to the concept of safe food. We know that for consumers this is very important, it is something they demand. Let's switch to other additives, such as: Antibiotics, we know that approx. Half of the use of antibiotics in Norway belongs to human medicine and half to agriculture. Norway is internationally very little at this. Denmark and other countries use much more. If we had got the agricultural policy that Hedstrom and the Progress Party stand for, the use of antibiotics and hormones had also gone up a lot. Here, too, we can do more in Norway. We know that very many of the diseases in Norwegian agriculture are related to production. If the pressure is too high, the number of diseases is also increasing. We've come so far in some countries that one through research has actually seen that if the calf drank raw milk to a common cow, he doesn't get enough antibodies, precisely because the cow milks so much and it's actually easy milk right from the cow. A drive so intense that the animal body itself is actually unable to produce this. This is the result of an agriculture that is not in line with what most people want – it's an animal ethics that most people don't want. In the early 1980s and 1990s, injecting drug use was low. Among others Kåre Gjønes, who was then Minister of Agriculture, and who was named here in the town, did a lot in this area. Also, when he was a staging representative, he called for results of this with spraying agent and an extensive use of antibiotics.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1101	When you listen to the speeches here today, it seems that the existing agricultural policy is the only gratifying thing in Norway. But the fact is, our policy is about to leave the world of reality. In the case of animal diseases and animal ethics, let us, for example: see Sweden and Finland. They do not have BSE in Sweden. But they relate to the world of reality. I'll take an example that I've taken before. In the 1970s, each dairy farmer in the Nordic region had about the same number of cows. Five years ago, Sweden had 30 cows per day. dairy farmers, the Danish 60 cows and fins are at full speed in the future. In Norway it is somewhat silent. But it's clean in Swedish, Danish and Finnish dairy cattle, and they have high standards. Evolution goes in the right direction, and they relate to the world of reality, while in Norway, with our transfers, we lose almost a thousand dairy farmers a year. So my point is, should we continue to defend the existing system? We have to try to get the uses that are left to be robust, so they can survive into a future and into the world of reality. Now, County Council Norman disappeared. However, we also have an agricultural bureaucracy because of all the agricultural transfers and agricultural settlements – approximately. Four thousand farmers, most of them carrying agriculture on their backs completely unnecessary. Why do we have to have over a hundred schemes, lots of checks and farmers to complete applications to be processed, etc.? We have a programme for ‘Simplify Norway’. Why not also include the agricultural sector and the bureaucracy covered by it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1110	The President believes that Norman is still in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1113	It could have been nice for me to invite the Progress Party to my farm on Toten. I'm the seventh generation that runs agriculture there, and I like it incredibly well. But I see that times change a lot. It's demanding, but it's incredibly interesting. I think the representative Hedstrøm here describes Norwegian agriculture as if everything had stood still. Then there's someone who hasn't attended the class. There is no other industry that has evolved as strongly over the past 30 to 40 years as agriculture. I am pleased that we have an offensive Minister of Agriculture who inspires us to think new, and I also believe that it is important that we think new. But I am quite clear that if we are to have agriculture in Norway, it must be a political agriculture. It's quite surprising that someone can think that we can run an agriculture today on the basis of the assumptions that the Progress Party is putting into it. Therefore, I think that the Stortinget has a right to know what the Progress Party is actually adding to Norwegian agriculture. Is it true that robust agriculture is a competitive agriculture in relation to countries with which the Progress Party wants to compare Norway? Is it a robust agriculture? The second is: is agriculture for the Progress Party only defined on the basis of how reasonable food can be produced? If that is the starting point, I think the Progress Party should be clear about it, because it is clear that it will have a great impact on what we put into Norwegian agriculture and what the Norwegian people say in relation to Norwegian agriculture. Norwegian agriculture shall not produce only bulk food. It is an additional effect that is important for many who live in this large country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1125	What made me ask for the word was that I would like to acknowledge and comment on the interesting article from Bjørn Jacobsen. Firstly, I have to say that it is very important that the commitment he expresses comes into this room, that we have a strong focus on how we can manage to reduce the use of sprays in agriculture and thus both reduce the cost of individual farmers and ensure that we take care of the enormous environmental values that agriculture represents. We have an instrument system today that works, just to achieve the goals that the representative here was engaged in. We have a differentiated charging system that makes the most environmentally harmful sprays more expensive and cheaper for those who cause less environmental damage. It works, and we've registered it. In addition, we have a certification system that requires professional growers to demonstrate that they have knowledge of this, knowledge that their spraying equipment is working, so that they do not contribute to a spraying that could harm the environment. This government also implements environmental plans on all farms, which become mandatory from 1 January 2004. This means that the individual farmer himself must be very aware of the impact on the environment of the farm in the course of its operation and must be able to prove it. I am absolutely sure that the knowledge building that will be associated with these environmental plans will make a very good contribution to reducing the use of sprays in the future. I also want to express that an increasing level of knowledge among Norwegian farmers contributes strongly to such a development. We've seen that in a lot of productions. For example, in fruit cultivation, which has been an intensive production of syringes, over 20 years I have experienced a dramatic decrease in the use of syringes, perhaps from 30 to 40 injections per year down to 4 to 5 injections in the worst case in rainy years. Finally, I want to draw out the work done to increase the ecological area. In itself, it contributes to the reduction of spraying, because it is an area not injected into. However, it also contributes to a significant transfer of knowledge to neighbours, and also to other farmers, that things can be done in a slightly different way, which also reduces the use of sprays in conventional agriculture. The sum of this I feel sure will help to ensure that the good figures we have shown regarding the use of spraying in agriculture are maintained and perhaps reinforced. Not least, this innovation with environmental plans is quite important in order to achieve good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1140	The representative Øystein Hedstrøm has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1143	A few questions came to me that I would like to clarify. Today, we have a customs-based protection, which largely protects us in most Norwegian-produced agricultural products. However, within customs-based protection, we should establish a competition in Norway. The agricultural sector is not subject to competition law. Price and market cooperation is permitted. If at least we allowed competition law to apply internally in Norway, this sector would also be subject to supply and demand and competition and develop robustness. So for this with clean food. There's nothing here either-- or. It is clear that Norway must also have specialities and work with it in line with the value creation programme, etc. But this does not solve Norwegian agricultural problems. It can't be either – or, but a boat – and so we go hand in hand with both bulk products and specialities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1152	No more people have asked for the floor in Case No. Nine and ten. [[Footing, see page 3544]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1167	I go into quite a short notice for the case spokesperson, Gunhild Eye, who was prevented from participating in this debate, so I'm certainly some sort of alternate spokesman in this context. The things that we have in front of us actually have two important sides. One is that we have an agreement with the EU that we are going to ratify, the other is that on the purchase we get some kind of agreement to implement the agreements. The starting point, as everyone knows, is that one period of two years should go through the conditions to see if it was possible to increase the room for trade in agricultural products between the EU and the EFTA countries. Now it was such that it has been until now before a final agreement was reached, so one has come out of this two-year rhythm, I believe, as it has been eight years since the negotiations started. I don't know what that means, but at least we have to wait for new rounds to start with the privacy of the EEA Agreement. The case has been submitted to the Stortinget under the terms of Section 26, i.e. that it is a very important matter. That's why we're going to have to deal with her then. For the Labour Party, we're not in doubt that we're going to ratify the agreement. It is clear that one could go against such an agreement if one was fundamental to trade in food, but it would also say that one was inconsistent with the basis on which the agreement is based, namely the EEA Agreement. This agreement is a consequence of the EEA Agreement. One might also think that the agreement is too bad and that it should therefore be rejected. We don't have reason to say that. We assume that the agreement you have reached is the best one possible, given the situation in which the negotiators lived. On the other hand, at the last point, which does not have to do with the approval of the agreements, but with the implementation of the agreements, in the short time we have had to discuss these agreements, we have seen that there are very different views. Of course, there are also differences of opinion about whether the agreements should be approved, but I have the impression that most people are interested in it. However, as I said, there are very different views on the implementation of the agreements and how these new duty-free quotas are to be allocated. Of course, this increase in trade will lead to new competition for Norwegian farmers. It can also lead to cheaper products for Norwegian consumers, and it will definitely lead to new products for Norwegian consumers. On the other hand, there will also be room for new markets for Norwegian farmers, so this is an agreement that has strong both positive and negative sides – negative in meaning increases competition, if there is a problem. That is to the extent that the explanatory part thereof. I confirm that we want to ratify the agreement. I support the Government at that point. A large number in the committee would like to do so. But a collective committee has a reservation when it comes to implementing the agreements. It jumps out of two relationships. One is that one has received a question, which is primarily a business policy and a consumer policy question, on the purchase by a ratification of an agreement. It's unfortunate, especially with the short deadline that Stortinget had for consulting – that's the other one. Saga came to the Storting less than ten days ago, and that's the time we had at the handling. The agreement was already ready, as far as I am concerned, on 18 December last – without her being, of course, approved by the parties. But the content was more or less clear. It would have been an advantage if the Government – who now had to take responsibility for it – had cleared and discussed the agricultural and consumer policy aspects of this matter before one came here, perhaps making room for them to be clarified through a normal process after the ratification had taken place. So I'm going to ask the Council of State if it's such that one of these ratifications will take time to go through and evaluate the different ways to distribute the allowances, or if one is going to distribute the allowances immediately. The contract is to be put into effect on 1 July, so anyway, it is not long. It depends a little on the preliminary work done by the department. Whether it is a failure to take time for a new review, or having time for a new review, I point out to the Committee that when it comes to fruit and vegetables, a government will come back to the Storting in an appropriate way to look at the different ways in which these quotas can be allocated. It means in plain language that an auction principle does not want to be used in that area now, but that a person uses the distribution mechanism that already exists, and then comes back to Stortinget in an appropriate way – it has to be up to the Government to decide what is owned in this context – to get a final clarification on whether to move to the auction principle on these sites. Once this comment has come in, and this hold has come out, it is because, as I said, an agricultural and consumer policy question was included in the purchase by a ratification that one had a very good time to deal with, and as it has been shown that there are very different views among organisations and different stakeholders in the field. That's the hold of the committee in this area, and I'm waiting for a comment from the government council on what will be the management from the government's side - whether one will start immediately, or whether one will wait and then come back to the Storting before a start with the auction principle in this restricted area. But the main conclusion is that the agreements are ratified and approved by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1190	Like the deputy case rapporteur, I have also stepped in to my party leader at short notice to justify the view of the centre party in the matter – without that I think it makes me a member of the party! But at least I will try briefly to explain the views of the centre party in the matter. This is a matter that goes back a long way in time. Already in 1997, the Commission and Norway agreed on an extended trade agreement in relation to Article 19. At that time, some EU countries, including Sweden, that this was an unbalanced agreement. Then the negotiations were reopened, and a new agreement was reached last autumn. It is an agreement that, in the opinion of the Centre Party, has been unbalanced from the Norwegian side, just as when Sweden thought it was unbalanced for the Swedish side or the EU since the last time. The only difference is that when it is considered to be unbalanced by the EU, it does something about it. When it's considered unbalanced from the Norwegian side, we accept it anyway. And we do that on this question. But there is no doubt, in the opinion of the Centre Party, that the distortions that a person gets in the customs regime as a result of this, will in practice be in Norway's disfavor. The increased export potential of Norwegian products will be more theory than practice, while the increased import of food into Norway will be most a reality. This imbalance is an imbalance involving costs of several hundred million kroner, which will be a burden that Norwegian food producers will have to bear first and foremost. We think it is remarkable that Norway accepts the agreement as it was now negotiated. We find it unwise to unilaterally reduce 127 customs positions, as one here has done, without someone knowingly getting something special back. And we think it goes into the sequence of several changes that the Norwegian authorities are immediately involved in, among other things. the luggage regulations of last autumn, which were also part of the same. On that basis, the Central Party wishes to oppose the agreement currently on the table. However, we share some of the Committee's comments on possible implementation if a majority in the European Parliament today decided that the agreement should be concluded. It concerns the implementation of certain aspects of the Agreement, in particular with regard to fruit and vegetables. For my part, I would like to say that I share the concerns of the representative, as well as the interpretation, of the comments made by an overall committee on the implementation of the agreement on fruit and vegetables. I would like to have a clarification from the Council of State on how the Government will deal with that question further.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1203	Article 19 of the EEA Agreement provides that Norway and the EU shall review the conditions governing trade in basic agricultural products at intervals of two years. The aim of this is to achieve a gradual liberalisation in which reductions and barriers to trade will benefit both parties. Norway and the Commission now agree, after several negotiations, on the draft existing agreement. The outcome of the negotiations will lead to an increase in trade in some agricultural products between the EU and Norway. Some of the main products concerned are cheese and meat, but also vegetables, fruit, berries and green plants are affected. In Norway, increased competition is likely to be observed in both cheese and meat. There will be more new foreign importers on the market and the import quota will be increased to 4000 tonnes and duty-free. It may sound dramatic, but you should know that this will not correspond more than approx. 6 pst. of the entire Norwegian cheese consumption. The ability of Norwegian companies to export to the EU will also be improved. The Norwegian cheese quota to the EU is raised to 4 000 tonnes and duty-free. It is not a theoretical possibility, as the Centre Party and SV write in a note. It says here: ‘Although increased exports of Norwegian products to the Union market are opened up, this will in practice be only a theoretical possibility, while increased imports of food into Norway will be a reality to the greatest extent.’ There is a maximum real and effective possibility of increased exports of Norwegian products to the Union market. We have good quality products, which are already popular on the European market. With the amendments to the agreement, oysters such as Järlsberg, Edams and Golda will be able to be exported to the EU to a greater extent. The increase in the quota and the reduction in the rate of duty could also make it easier for, among others, TINE and Synnove Find establishing itself within the EU market. It should benefit good Norwegian businesses. In the case of meat, the agreement will provide for reciprocal duty-free quotas of 800 tonnes in total. This will correspond to approx. 1 pst. of Norwegian meat consumption. Norway has been allocated duty-free quotas to the EU for lamb, bacon and bacon sausages. The Christian People's Party is committed to preserving and renewing Norwegian agriculture. Agriculture plays an essential role in ensuring rural and scattered settlements. The Christian People's Party wants to maintain housing in the districts and will facilitate jobs and an equivalent service offer in all parts of the country. Norway is dependent on people choosing to live in districts as well. Our district policy must therefore be shaped on this basis. A very large proportion of our export income comes from business in the districts, and there are still great chances of increased value creation here. That is why we are also concerned that Norway should maintain high levels of customs duties that are sufficient to maintain a viable agricultural sector. The Sem declaration states that the Cooperative Government will continue to ensure Norwegian agricultural production in important areas of import protection. We can't just protect today's agriculture. We must also renew it. Agriculture will meet a tougher economy and tougher demands through international negotiations in the future. It is therefore important that we pursue a policy adapted to this new era. We want a more efficient, structurally adapted agricultural policy, along with modernisation and renewal for each farm. This expansion of trade in agricultural products could lead to increased competition for agricultural products in Norway, but at the same time will lead to greater opportunities for the export of Norwegian goods. We believe that you need to have your eyes open to this possibility. It must be used so that the contract can be of benefit to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1225	I am pleased that the Stortinge today gives its consent to the conclusion of an agreement with the EU on extended trade in agricultural products. Negotiations on an Article 19 agreement began as early as 1995 and so it is a lengthy process which is now concluded at the conclusion of this agreement. The negotiations have been carried out pursuant to Article 19 of the EEA Agreement, where Norway and the EU are to review the conditions for trade in agricultural products at intervals of two years. Furthermore, Article 19 requires that the negotiations on extended trade be conducted in the framework of the respective agricultural policy of the Parties. On the Norwegian side, one of these issues in the negotiations has focused on giving limited concessions to agricultural products where we have good market coverage through national production, and instead give concessions to the EU where we do not have our own production or only partial market coverage. At the same time, the agreement provides Norway with improved opportunities for increased exports of Norwegian products to the EU. Cheese represents the main branded export of Norwegian agricultural products. In the current agreement, there was an imbalance in the customs level in our disfavor of just above NOK 4 per person. kilograms, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, Now there will be a reciprocal duty-free quota of 4000 tonnes. This provides a good framework for an offensive investment on the Union market. This can contribute positively to the development of the Norwegian dairy industry, while increasing the diversity of consumer supply. For meat, there will be a reciprocal duty-free quota of 800 tonnes. This gives the meat industry new opportunities for the export of bacon, bacon and lamb. Norwegian meat establishments must have a realistic relationship with their export efforts, but I think it should be possible to succeed in exporting special qualities to specific markets. I have no doubt that some of our agricultural products have qualities that will also be appreciated by non-residents. Some Norwegian companies are now investigating the possibility of exporting lamb meat as a result of improved market access. For vegetables, fruit, berries and green plants, too, the agreement provides for new reciprocal duty-free import quotas. The green sector is an area in which some Norwegian products should be reasonably competitive on the European market. This is due to several relationships. Norwegian products come on the market partly after the end of the season further south and may further have a special advantage in terms of disease freedom as a result of our northern climate. The difference from the EU price is also smaller than for livestock products. In its position, the minority argues that the agreement will strengthen the already existing imbalance in the agricultural trade between Norway and the EU. It is important to note here that a number of concessions give the EU preference to the Norwegian market over other countries but do not replace Norwegian production. This applies, for example: products such as apple juice, seed and potato flakes for industrial purposes. In the negotiations with the Commission, there was a special focus on the demands of our neighbouring country. The agreement therefore also granted Norwegian concessions of special interest to our Nordic neighbours. Here you can see meatballs and strawberries. In its position, the Committee asked the Government to return to the Stortinget in an appropriate manner with regard to the implementation of the Agreement in the fruit and vegetables sector, as the representative of Blankenborg was in his statement. Particular reference is made to the use of auctioning in the allocation of import allowances. The government will come back to this in connection with St.prp. No 1 for 2004, inter alia based on the extensive experience we have with the 1995 auction system in this area, which was introduced under the leadership of the then Minister of Agriculture, Øyang. I believe it is important that the Article 19 Agreement is finally put into place and that the intentions of the EEA Agreement on extended trade in agricultural products are followed up. This is important for the EEA Agreement and our relationship with the EU. I do not want to hide that the agreement reached poses challenges for Norwegian agriculture through increased imports of certain agricultural products. At the same time, it also allows agriculture and the food industry to work on new markets and thereby develop their knowledge and competitiveness. It is up to agriculture and industry to take advantage of these opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1248	There has been a lot of talk about goods here, and I believe we all in the Foreign Affairs Committee are in this context. Of course, those who should have dealt with this are the nutrition committee. It should have been sent to the nutrition committee for consideration first. What makes this clear is that it's the Minister of Agriculture who's in charge of us and discuss these things. When we have held on since 1995, it is strange that one should offer the Stortinget fourteen days to deal with this. At the same time, when the EEA is well or bad in this context, we show absolutely no willingness to use the people's government elements that are actually in the EEA Agreement. We should be able to take time to deal with this in a proper way. We could even take time, if we wanted to, to decide to go against ratification. But what one has done, as the committee has agreed, is actually to break it up: ratification first, then the government comes back in a proper way. We'll see if it works. In any event, it should be possible for this type of case to be dealt with in a completely different way in the future. Both the EEA and those against the EEA will be fully aware of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1257	In principle, trade in agricultural products should not form part of the adaptation of the EEA Agreement to the EU internal market. Norwegian agriculture could be protected through customs and quotas. Article 19 of the EEA Agreement should be a derogation from the general rule that Norwegian agriculture can be protected. Instead, we see that this paragraph is used to push forward an ever faster liberalisation of trade, based on agricultural products towards the EU. The coastal party believes that the Norwegian authorities have been too indulgent in the negotiations on the conditions for trade in agricultural products, so we are voting against the present draft agreement with the EU. We believe that the strong EU liberalisation pressure in this matter is a good argument for cancelling the whole EEA Agreement. The coastal party believes that all countries should be entitled to their own agriculture. Our climate sets special requirements for the protection of agriculture. Increasing liberalisation towards the EU will, in the long term, be a threat to Norwegian agriculture as a whole. Given our high cost level, the Norwegian agricultural industry would hardly be able to compensate for lost market shares in Norway through exports to EU countries. The agreement is therefore a unilateral disadvantage for Norway. To the extent that Norway itself should be interested in increasing imports of certain agricultural products, the Coastal Party considers it natural that such imports should benefit poor countries. It is a global problem that rich countries with large agricultural subsidies compete for the countries most dependent on exports to create sustainable development for their population. Against this background, there is no basis for giving the rich EU countries priority over others in terms of imports of agricultural products into Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1268	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3546]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1284	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the case leader, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that 5 replies be given to comments from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1293	Before I go to my post, I just want to take the opportunity to fix something that seems to be a small pressure error. It concerns the recommendation of the Committee, on page 13 of the opinion. The Committee's recommendation is as follows: ‘Until. S. No 273 for 2002-2003: appointment of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on Human Resources in Defence, previously mentioned in the Annual Communications of the EOS Committee for 2000 and 2001.’ It shall, of course, after ‘2001’, read ‘– annexed to the Protocol’, if any, in doubt. The matter we are dealing with today is a matter that has gone on for a long time, under several governments, and it has been taken up three times by the EOS Committee. There is something quite extraordinary about the fact that a single case is taken up by the Grand Duchy's control committee, and that a single case is dealt with in this way in the Grand Duchy three years in a row. One can of course say that this seems to be something other than what Stortinget should be doing. This is a detailed simple matter – apparently something quite different from what Stortinget should be doing. But at the same time, it's precisely in the individual things that we can see if the system we've chosen is working. At my discretion, there is no reason to have full confidence in a system that seems to work badly when you look at the individual issues. It has therefore been important that the Storting has gone into this matter so thoroughly. Although it is an individual matter, it concerns the important issues of principle, and that is also, of course, the reason why Storting's own supervisory board has addressed this matter three years in a row. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left – in other words, the opposition parties represented in the Committee – also indicate that this case has been raised by the EOS Committee for several consecutive years, and notes that the case could have been closed at an earlier date if the department had followed up the reports of the EOS Committee in a satisfactory manner. Then it is worth pointing out that this responsibility rests on all those who have run the Ministry of Defence while this matter has been in progress. The involvement of the EOS Committee should be very weighty in any public administration proceedings. In this case, the EOS Committee has raised criticisms on a number of points, including: lack of flexibility in the procedure and that Ellingsen did not obtain access to the case documents in a way that enabled him to defend himself. The EOS committee has pointed out that the matter would have been served with a new and unwarranted assessment before Ellingsen was referred to costly legal processes. A review was carried out, but the EOS Committee has subsequently asked whether the new review satisfied the requirements for a new and unrelenting review. It is also worth noting that in the hearing it appeared that it did not satisfy the Minister of Defence’s demands on how such a review should work. On several points, the criticism of the EOS Committee has led to changes in routines, and that is positive. This is recently documented in a letter from the Minister of Defence to the EOS Committee dated 18 June 2003 with a copy to the Committee. Unfortunately, however, the changes in procedures do not seem to have any consequences in this case. In the majority's view, for example, a natural consequence of seeing that a new and unhindered review had not been good enough would have been that it was actually re-examined, and then it followed its own guidelines. At this point, a minority in the Committee, members of the Progress Party and SV, have a proposal to ask the Government to carry out such a new and unhindered review. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee notes that briefed security calls with the employee have not been carried out. So if there were any misunderstandings, as it might seem from some minority comments, that this means that the majority doesn't think there have been any security calls, then this is not a proper understanding of what the majority says. The majority note that this has not actually proved to be able to follow their own guidelines, among other things. in the case of a security conversation with the nearest supervisor, which is in line with the procedures under which the defence operates for this type of case. About a year ago, this case was being dealt with in Stortinget, where the Minister of Defence said that she knew that the defence had offered him a position where the wording was – as far as she could remember – ‘an adequate position’. The Committee’s hearings made it clear that this was not an offer for a specific position, but that it should be understood as an offer for a dialogue on placement in an appropriate position. Firstly, the majority believe that the opinion of the Council of State, as it fell, was suitable for creating misunderstandings both for the Ellings and for the Storing. Secondly, the majority's view looks strange when you say that you've promoted an offer of dialogue, while it turns out that attempts to take up this dialogue from one party, that's from Ellings and his lawyer, do not lead. At the same time, it turns out that letters sent to attempt to start this dialogue are not even available at the Ministry of Defence. Of course, it does not improve that during the hearing it seems that someone is trying to say that this letter has been requested on the phone, while this cannot be confirmed in retrospect. It is uncertain whether that particular comment in the hearing was meant to be understood this way, but once again it looks as if you express yourself in a way that may not be the clearest and most enlightening to the matter for the Storting. It was not the Council of State that chose this expression – for the sake of order. Furthermore, the majority emphasises that the general rule of Norwegian case law is that one stands in his position until there is a valid dismissal, possibly a judgment with a suspensive effect of any kind. The majority are aware that the Defence Command has been through a conversion process and that this may have affected Ellings position. But if you want to redeploy an employee, you have to follow the procedures you have for this. The majority in the Committee find it highly critical that, several months after the judgment is enforceable, no solution has been found to the case. Furthermore, the majority emphasises that in dealing with these types of matters in which the State acts as an employer, it is also important that the administration treats its employees in a fair, predictable and reasonable manner. Government should be an example as an employer. It should not be the most border-boundary, and precisely within what is lawful practice. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the SV also explicitly promote the following proposals: ‘The Council finds Minister of Defence Kristin Krohn Devold’s treatment of the Ellingsen case critical.’ There is, of course, a slight distinction between promoting this proposal and not promoting it, but it is therefore a majority in the Committee that believes that the Council of State has acted passively and in a less discretionary way in dealing with the specific matter. It again underlines the seriousness of the Committee's view on this matter. The minority in the Committee, the members of the Progress Party and the SV, also propose that an increase of DKK 200 000 be paid to Mrs Ellingsen. I have to add that this is in the hope that this may be part of the Storting's last consideration of this matter. This is a kind of proposal that it is natural to promote as a matter is near the end, but we hope that this matter has now been within the Storting for the last time. There should be no reason why, when we receive an annual report from the EOS Committee in one year's time, we should see that this matter is still not resolved. I will address the three proposals I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1344	The representative Siri Hall Arnøy has corrected the proposal for a decision and drawn up the proposals she herself made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1347	Let me first make a few comments on what is referred to as a ‘protocol’, inserted by the Right and Christian People's Party, where they point to the role of the courts in our society. Among other things, it says here: ‘These members further indicate that, in respect of those parts of the case in which the judgment is given, the Committee must take into account the accuracy of the judgment.’ I don't think anyone in this room has any problem joining this. A just judgment is correct, and the Stortinget has for its part only to deal with the decisions of the courts – in this case as in other cases. And that's exactly what we're doing -- relates to a just judgment. We do not try to use any flexible interpretations of the judgment either, but we are strictly concerned with the letter of the judgment, which says that the dismissal of the person concerned concerns this case is invalid. Let me make it clear that, for its part, the Workers' Party fully shares the view expressed in the same statement, that the Stortinget should not deal with matters of law. Withdrawal of security clearance is a factor in this case and is still pending before the courts. We therefore do not address this issue, either in our comments on the matter or to substantiate our positions here in the Chamber. It is also claimed that this is not a matter which is ‘normal’ for the Committee to deal with, and that through such consideration we intervene in the authority of the administration. The case, as the rapporteur explained, has been dealt with several times in the annual reports of the EOS Committee, and critical comments have been made on several points. For us, the matter is not primarily about the staff case in the real sense of the word, but about how the matter has been dealt with in the ministry and in the underlying bodies. In our opinion, this case could find its solution in a completely different way from what was the case, if the department had effectively followed the remarks made by the EOS Committee. This includes things such as transparency of the documents, lack of writing in the proceedings and a new unbound review of the case. The comments of the EOS Committee led to changes in the procedures, but there was no impact on the matter we are now dealing with. In the majority's view, it is positive that the committee's advice has been followed here, but a logical consequence of this should have been that the new procedures would also have been valid in this case. So the majority of the committee is critical that this did not happen. Now, in a consultation with the Committee, the Council of State says that an unwarranted review and better procedure would not have changed the final outcome. I'm sure we can discuss that. It has not been conducted an unhindered examination, and how the outcome of such an examination would have been is probably unknown to us, and, as far as I can understand, to the Council of State as well. The person who was dismissed from the position was tried before the court, and the cancellation was declared invalid. So he's been employed and he's been doing it the whole time this process is going on. The judgment was appealed, but the anchor was later drawn on the grounds that the department believed that the long time it would take before the treatment was completed would be a burden on the counterparty. About one month after the judgment was given, a letter was sent to the person, asking him to contact us for placement in a job. His position disappears in its then form in connection with a reorganisation, but he may not have been treated like others who were affected by this reorganisation, as far as I can see. The letter was answered by the person, but this letter of reply disappears, and later there has been no contact about a relevant position. Here I think I have to file that this letter did not disappear in the department, but elsewhere in the defense. An employee is erroneously dismissed. Of course, this should not happen, but when it does happen, the employer should actively try to correct the error. It doesn't seem to have happened here, and it also seems that the committee is critical. Governments have repeatedly pointed out that they were ill-reported and that, therefore, it was not appropriate or possible to have a more active approach. It is not necessary to have a great deal of knowledge of how we people react, to understand that this medical report could relate to the case of dismissal, and that another way of acting on the part of the employer would have significantly improved the man's life situation. When the employer makes such a serious mistake as it is wrong to cancel a employee, transparency and rigour are required to correct what has happened, not a formal and bureaucratic way of acting. The person has now been offered a job, and for my part I have no opinion, of course, whether this is a relevant position in relation to the job he/she had and whether it is proportionate to his/her qualifications. However, it does not seem that the position is offered after a dialogue with the person, which I have understood would be a prerequisite for the successful conclusion of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1387	Before I go into the facts and formalities of the matter, I will also use the opportunity, on behalf of the Right, to show an understanding that Owen Ellingsen has gone through a procedure that has been a great burden on him. The legal security of individuals shall not be toyed with either in the Defence or elsewhere. The proceedings shall be fair and ensure that the accused is effectively countered in the context of what is possible at a special place of work which, in spite of everything, is the defence. The right took an early distance from opening the case. It was not on the basis of any hidden agenda, the fear that the council had not sat on the dry, or that we thought that Owe Ellingsen was a particularly sensitive person. Our justification is clear from the protocol we promoted at the meeting on 18 February, and that includes, among other things. based on replies to the undersigned from the Constitutional Office attached to the suspension. It was probably not completely removed from the air either, when a total committee four months later during the hearing took into account the same principleal delimitation that we in vain tried to get the rest of the committee to take over at the meeting on 18 February. I would like to take the opportunity to commend the committee leader for mismanagement of the hearing on the basis of this demarcation. It partially saved the stumps of the control committee's integrity in relation to the tendency we've seen to plunge into life and lust without safety nets. Outside, in the media, this case has consolidated the view that we are the Storting's alms committee and a kind of temporary agency for courts, prosecution authorities, national audit and civil ombudsman. I respect that the position and opposition have different roles and perhaps agendas in control matters. But we should have a common goal in ensuring that the Storting does its actual tasks properly, rather than trying to take over everyone else's, who solves them in a much better way than we do. I'm glad that the Workers' Party, unlike the SV and the Advance Party, shows better paces than sometimes to reintroduce a kind of variant of the form of government we introduced in the 1660s, with the only obvious difference that we're getting some single violence forests in 165 offices here on the Stortinget. And even though the representative Carl I. Hagen is very often right – in fact strangely often – it is also true that the representative Carl I. Hagen can be wrong. But he can explain that in his own article. However, I would like to ask a question to the representative Hagen's conduct during the hearing, where he leaves his place, and then to sue on behalf of lawyer Fredum and his client. It was a little special to discover, but there might be some good constitutional explanations about it, which I'll get afterwards. Instead, out of curiosity, I would like to ask some specific questions to the rapporteur. The question of security clearance is still before the court: does not the representative Siri Hall Arnøy see that the possible adoption of another new and unhindered review with a high degree of probability involves affecting the handling of the case by the court? With regard to the proposal to adopt that the handling of the Council of States is critical, I would like to clarify more precisely what is critical by Kristin Krohn Devold. Is it that Ellingen was deprived of the security clearance? It was already done in 1999. Is it that he was laid off? It was done under the Council of State Godal. Are those the opinions of the Stortinget on 19 June 2002? The answers there refer to a letter that you really can't misunderstand very much, if you don't want to misunderstand. Is that the follow-up to the comments of the EOS Committee? The EOS Committee closed its proceedings on 24 May 2002 after having been informed of how their comments have been followed. Is that the follow-up to the verdict? Compensation and costs have been paid. Ellings got an offer on 15 January for a position as head of department. Is it that the Council of State pulled the anchor? The Committee itself says in its observations that it is the right of the Council of State to take such a decision, and it may well not be a problem for Ellings that the State is appealing against a judgment that he himself has chosen not to appeal. What is it the Council of State should have done differently? What is concrete that is critical? In the case of the 200,000 kroner you feel to give up: Is this for the cancellation? The Ellings were entitled to NOK 50000 – of a total claim of SEK 3.6 million. kr. In that case, the proposal involves an appeal against the judgment of the court. Or is it because he was deprived of the security clearance? As has been said, this question remains in the legal system, and in so far as it is relevant for compensation, should it not then be a question for the court? Or should we influence that question? And finally, is it a substitute for Ellingsen having received an offer for a position as a department director, with a significantly higher salary than he originally had, a position he has not stated that he intends to take up? This was a small order of answers from the rapporteur on some questions that I do not feel she explained well enough for in her opening post.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1408	The President appears that mention of the conduct of individual representatives during hearings does not belong in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1411	However, I will answer the question from my colleague Dahl when it came to why I, not when I myself was in action, but listened to, asked some questions to Ellingsen's lawyer. It was purely factual information I was looking for. It is not unknown that, in the context of debates in this Chamber and in other contexts, it is possible to go and ask those with knowledge and factual information about the facts. It is not uncommon that the state councils occasionally rush away to the diplomat lodge to ask questions to their employees. I had no employee, but I had some questions about facts. So ask André Dahl what's critical, and mentioned some relationships. Let me also answer that question. I find it very critical that the matter was at all appealed after the first court order. That's what I said a year ago. A staff case of this kind should not have been appealed, especially when the Council of State could not at that time tell us why it was done, because she refused, despite the fact that a majority in the committee wanted it, access to the examination of the Ministerial Advocate. But when she then came to the conclusion that the anchor was to be pulled into the dismissal case, and the first court order was to be enforceable, then it is very critical that she did not at the same time cut through and gave Owen Ellingen his security clearance back, which had been the basis for the dismissal. I find that critical. When she chooses to pull the anchor in the dismissal case, she should also immediately give back the security clearance, cut through the department, and at the same time personally have engaged much stronger to ensure that Ellingsen got a satisfactory solution when it came to work – that is, the job back. She should also have made sure in the meantime, after the first sentence, that the position was clear in the event that it went as it was, that no one else had anything but a vicariate, and that the position was not converted into a military position, but that it was there. It is also critical that she did not make sure that it was okay, when it went as it went and she drew the anchor. The position should have been there, and she should have watched it all the time. After all, this matter has become a personal matter for large-scale and government. It's very rare, and it should be. It should be rare for both the Council of State and the Council of State to get into a staff case. But we have done so because the Storting's own EOS committee in the report a few years ago said relatively clearly that it was possible that someone had removed a security clearance to solve what was called a personnel problem, i.e. to get rid of a employee that you would get rid of for some reason. The council said that she has not revealed any basis for such a, let's say, conspiracy theory. The fact that she has not been able to reveal it does not mean that there are not quite a lot of indispositions about that being true. On 5 June 2001 – two years ago – the rapporteur said when the case was under way: ‘The case is presented in the annual report of the EOS Committee and close to conclusion is that FO/S has solved staff problems using security clearance. This should not be the case in that case, and this is a criticism from Storting's own control committee that I had expected was taken more seriously both in the Defence Command and in the Ministry of Defence." It was Højres Svein Ludvigsen, the current Minister for Fisheries, who said. And then I had actually expected that Kristin Krohn Devold, when she quite rightly inherited this matter from the previous government, and had this starting point from the Right and Svein Ludvigsen at the time, which is the government colleague, had made sure that we had not had this debate here today, two years later. That's what's critical, that the matter isn't resolved for the longest time, but has pulled out and pulled out. The Minister of Defence said in the hearing that one of her highest wishes had been to resolve this matter. If this is one of her highest wishes, and it has taken so long and given so bad results, then I wonder what has happened in relation to the matters that are not at the top of the wish list, but the second top, third top and fourth top. For this matter, a powerful government council, which had the ability to cut through and put its department and the Overcommand in place, could have provided a satisfactory solution for the State as an employer and for Owe Ellingsen as an employee who has not received the treatment he should have. He has been subjected to a process, following the Kafka process.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1427	What we're dealing with now is that the different parties have discussed the matter from a whole range of angles. We in the government party have been concerned about the role of the control committee, especially in relation to the courts. Our rule of law is based on the principle that state powers are independent. The government has its place of action, and the courts have their place of action and their jurisdiction, defined by the law. The Storting has the tradition of not going into cases that have been in court or that will come into court. According to the Christian People's Party's view, the Stortinget in this matter has crossed the border of what is its territory. I hope it becomes with this one case. The most special thing in this case is, in my opinion, the proposal from SV and the Progress Party that the Storting should pay some kind of compensation, directly in the hall, without any directionlines or procedural procedures. This is alarming, and it could have had serious consequences if the proposal had been multiplied. Measurement and compensation are home to the legal system or to settlement negotiations between the parties. In the case of the Storting’s own cheap substitute scheme, systematic and experimentally fair guidelines are established, so that not only the one that screams is the one that gets. The size should stick to these directions. Going beyond our usual arrangements I think I would be very unwise. I also think there are several people who might have reason to philosophize a little over which instances have to share responsibility for the fact that personal matters have not yet been resolved. I hope, at least, that when the Storting ends its intervention in the matter today, the Ellings/Defence dialogue will be normalized. So to something both the plural and the minority say, with exactly the same words: ‘In serious cases where it may be appropriate to withdraw the security clearance, it is particularly important that the procedure and handling are spot-free. The confidence of the security clearance institution depends on raised doubts that the security clearance and withdrawal of the security clearance are not misused.’;» This is significant, and we're completely in agreement about this. The whole committee also agrees that all comments from the EOS Committee should be taken seriously and followed up in the departments. Everyone in the committee has noticed that this has happened, through new routines, based on the EOS selection's comments on Ellingsen-saka. The Committee has divided its views on the need for a third review of the Owe Ellingens clearance case, a matter which is, moreover, also for Oslo Tingrett. The majority of the committee seems to think that a sentence of the Council of State expressed here in the Chamber, in a reply on 19 June last year, about an adequate position, was the right to create misunderstandings, because it should not be clear enough that there was an invitation to a job dialogue. I don't understand anything about this criticism. Firstly, the councils of state in the pulpit clearly reiterated whether they were thinking the wording correctly. And, more importantly, in the following sentence she said: ‘I believe that the details of what should be done should be communicated between the person concerned and the employer, who in this case is the Defendant’.» Governments are actually talking about communication about placement in an adequate position. It may not be possible to avoid hearing it. It may seem that one of these is almost constructing a problem, and it's not good for the reputation of the Control and Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1466	I will be the first to admit that this has been a difficult matter. The fact that the matter has stretched over three governments illustrates that. At the same time, I would like to say that I commend the committee on the intentions to raise this as a single matter. I agree with those who say that it is through the control of individual matters that we can ensure that the management acts as we please, and I agree that recordings from the EOS Committee should be taken very seriously and should weigh heavily. But it is on one point that I do not share the view of the Progress Party in particular, and that is that there is a Kafka process behind this matter. I have full confidence in the work that two previous governments have done, and through the insight that I have gained in this matter, I have found no reason to conclude that there are other motives behind this than those that have been put forward. This matter is well explained, and I do not want to go into all the practical issues involved in the dialogue between the ministry and the committee. However, I would like to stress that when the state lost the cancellation case, I chose to appeal first, in order later to pull the anchor for reasons I have explained. And the committee does not question my right to make these decisions. As for the EOS Committee's comments, last June I followed up the EOS Committee's criticism of change of procedures, and I am pleased that the Committee has taken note of this. After the previous debate, there have been no further enquiries from the EOS Committee on this matter, and I would like to remind you that in the letter from the EOS Committee to the Department relating to the unobserved review initiated by Godal, which was concluded under me, the EOS Committee does not therefore impose any new unhindered review. They leave it up to the ministry to assess — unlike the letter Godal received, which strongly recommended a new review. When it comes to the question of whether security calls were made or not, this is enough of a question that will be made subject to a procedure in the case before the court, and I therefore do not think it appropriate to address it. With regard to information about the appropriate position, my assessment is that if you read both my reply to the representative, Mr Enoksen, and my reply to the representative, Mr Engebretsen, you will find that the content of the vacancy must be clarified in close contact with the defence as an employer, and that it is not a specific position. I tried with the best of my ability to word according to the contents of the letter. With regard to the question of compensation, the Progress Party and SV in this case have a concrete proposal that Ellingen should be awarded a surcharge of NOK 200000. I am pleased that the majority opposes this and the other two proposals from the SV and the Progress Party. In the action for annulment, Ellingen has been ordered to bear the costs of the action, and, in the case of cancellation, the court says: «The dismissal case has been a heavy burden on Ellingen, but because of his many violations of the rules, which is a major cause of the dismissal, he himself has to bear much of the responsibility for his resignation. He is awarded a fine of $50,000.» The $50,000 is part of a claim from Ellingen of over 3.6 million. kr. Any compensation related to the security clearance issue shall be the subject of a court order. I have, to the best of my knowledge, ensured, through the defence as an employer, that the State has followed up the verdict in Oslo district court. The commitment and ambition have been to get a quick and good solution for all parties. I therefore fully agree with the Committee that it would have been desirable to close the case earlier, but in my opinion, the defence has advanced and demonstrated flexibility by being appropriate also to points beyond the provisions of the judgment. I hope that Ellingsen will now say yes to the position he is offered, a department manager with a higher salary than he had, so that this case can be concluded as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1496	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1499	The person has now been offered a job, but as far as I know, he has not yet accepted this offer. Modulf Aukhan referred to the Council of State statement on the need for communication before finding a position acceptable to both parties. I think this is very correct. The position that has been offered to him is, as far as I know, a one-sided offer in the sense that this is an offer that has been sent to him by. letter and notice to respond to the offer. Does the Council of State now consider it appropriate to initiate a dialogue to find a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1504	At the time the anchor was not pulled, it was important to be able to have a dialogue with Ellingsen about placement in an adequate position. After the anchor was pulled, the most important thing was to execute the sentence, and the judgment says Ellingsen will have his position in the Defence. He was the department manager when he lost his job. That is why, after the judgment became enforceable, the defense has concentrated on identifying a department director’s job with a specific content, not a job that would be perceived as ‘to be put in an office’ without real content. But it is clear that there is a limited number of department directorships in the Defence Department with relevant content in relation to the job he had, and this position is the one that fits clearly best.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1509	The Minister of Defence said that after the anchor was pulled, the most important thing was to implement the judgment. Is the Council satisfied that half a year has passed since the anchor was pulled, and that no solution has yet been found? To join me in the Engreets Question: Could maybe the time have come to start talking, to have a conversation, to try to figure out what the other party was really looking for, to find a solution because it's been completely silent? So I'd like to ask about this with security clearance. I stated in my post that the Council of State should have given the security clearance back at the same time as the anchor was pulled. She certainly remembers that last year at this time we suggested to ask her to pull the anchor. Then it was completely impossible. So it became possible a while later. Someone wanted it to be because the state eventually realized that they had a bad case. There were still new witnesses, but I can't say anything about that. Does the Council of State agree that she was formally allowed to give instructions to give Ellingen the security clearance back?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1518	With regard to the first question, where Carl I. Hagen refers to the dialogue with Ellingsen after the judgment became final, as a dialogue that has been completely silent, I do not share that view. It was quite clear in the judgment that it was getting the job back in the defence that was important. That is why the Defence Department, as a subsidiary of the Ministry of Defence, has had the dialogue with Ellingsen. And the defense has shown flexibility by having a dialogue about any early retirement, possibly leave in a rehabilitation period, additional compensation in addition to the compensation that the judgment had awarded, etc. However, it has been identified through the media that it was a topical issue to give him a position in the Ministry of Defence. It's never been true, and I'm glad that the majority there have the same opinion that I have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1523	I just want to make a brief remark about the last thing that the Council of State said, that I do not see that the majority has taken a decision as to whether it is right to give him a position in the Ministry of Defence or in the Defence, but now leave it. I have two questions for the Council of State. The first concerns what the majority of the Committee considered fit to create misunderstandings between the Storting and the State Council. There is my specific question: does the Council of State think that it is possible to say that someone has given an offer for dialogue if enquiries from one party to another are lost and not answered? So to the second question. The Council of State said that on one point she could not share the criticism. In particular, there was something from the Progress Party in relation to this with a Kafka process. But does the Council of State understand the criticism of the majority of the committee on the other points? Has the Council of State taken this criticism inward in any way? Will this criticism from a large majority have any consequences in relation to future consideration of this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1532	In the reply I gave in Stortinget on 19 June last year, I formulated myself as close as possible to the text of the letter I referred to. The question from Arnøy is whether there is a real dialogue when it turned out in retrospect that a letter that had been sent to the Defense was not received by the Defence. The offer of dialogue lies in the first letter, although I am the first to admit that it was very unfortunate that the letter to which it is referred could not later be registered in the defence archives. As for the second question, whether I have taken this inward, it is clear that in that I chose to draw the anchor, in that we have stretched out the offer to Ellingen, beyond what is strictly stated in the judgment, and in that the points of the EOS Committee have been followed up to the point and the point, there is just a recognition that in this matter is the absolute thing we have to learn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1539	First, I want to give you an observation. With the lack of will and action that the Council of State continues to show, I would not be surprised if we had a similar debate in one year's time. The question then is who is participating on the other side. I have a question that I did not get an answer to. Does the Council of State agree that there were no formal obstacles in order that she could have given instructions to give Ellingen the security clearance back when the appeal in the dismissal case was withdrawn? So one year ago, it was impossible to draw the anchor, but it was done later. Can the Council of State confirm that yes, she could also have given instructions and brought the case against Ellingen on the security clearance, by granting Ellingen the right to that question, and by giving it back? With regard to the dismissal case, is the Council of State concerned that we are now getting what might be called Lex Krohn Devold, that all employers who are in dismissal proceedings for the judiciary can train for re-employment if they lose, simply by reorganising the position they had, remove the position and also withdraw it, so that there will be a new legal case on that issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1548	I'll do the last one first. It is suggested that the defense was reorganized in my time to prevent Ellingsen from getting his position back. If I'm wrong about that assumption, it's good, but I perceive a few of the posts so it's suggested. Then I just have to make it clear that the position Ellingsen had was reorganised long before I joined the Council of State. That being said, in any organisation undergoing frequent reorganisation, everyone, whether in a situation of dismissal or one, will have to expect to be relocated to other positions in the organisation. The most important thing here is the willingness to put Ellingsen into an equally important job — the head of department — with a higher salary. As far as safety clearance is concerned, the most important thing here is whether I, the Council of State, felt that my predecessors made a misassessment when they took Ellingen from the security clearance. But I have therefore supported the decision of the two previous governments on this issue, and I have therefore not assessed what Carl I. Hagen is asking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1555	In its first response to me in relation to whether the Council of State has taken the criticism inwards, the Council of State shows examples that the Council of State has experienced this as a difficult matter, and of course I have every sympathy for it. But that wasn't my question. My question was about the criticism that is now coming from Stortinget, which has some consequences for the future handling and handling of this matter. I record that the Council of State had heavy assessments in relation to appeal/not appeal, but it is less important in relation to what was my question. To repeat the question, if it were to be unclear: here comes a big crowd with a clear criticism. Has the Council of State understood this criticism, and has the Council of State taken this criticism inward? And does this criticism have any consequences? After all, I record that party traps by the Council of State indicate that they are unable to read and understand the criticism from the comments and what is said in the Chamber, and then it is of particular interest to hear if the Council of State has understood what has been said and written.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1564	As far as the Committee's comments are concerned, they affect a variety of aspects. It is therefore not possible to answer in a single manner other than that I have noticed the criticism and, of course, on behalf of the department will ensure that in the future I have as tidy procedural procedures as possible, which I have also implemented through new instructions. However, elements of the criticism go, for example: that a new unhindered review should be carried out. My assessment has been that the unhilded review that Godal initiated, which was concluded just after I joined, although it has had shortcomings, has not given a different result than what a new review would have given. That is why I have followed what is stated in the last letter of the EOS Committee, namely that it will be up to the Department to assess whether a new review is necessary. And we haven't found it necessary. It is one of several points mentioned by the Committee. [[The President clubs.]] It's time-difficult to go into everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1572	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1575	The centre party is not represented in the Control and Constitutional Committee, but in various contexts we have been both committed and critical to the way this matter has been handled. It is unusual that such a case as this is first mentioned by the EOS Committee several times and secondly ends up as a matter in the Stortinget. The majority of the committee then also strongly criticises the Council of State's handling of this in the vote. There is no doubt that what has happened, the way in which this matter has been dealt with, is reprehensible. It is established in a court order, which was properly appealed first, but where the anchor was pulled, that a member of the defence was unjustly dismissed. In such a situation, the employer has a specific responsibility to find a solution that both parties can live with. After hearing the State Council's comments today, I regret to say that I still do not feel quite sure that this matter will be concluded in a reasonable manner. The Council of State refers, inter alia, to: in its statement that it is the Defence as a sub-department that manages the dialogue with Ellingen. But then I have to remember that at this point in time this was actually a matter between the Storting and the Council of State. And that is also the responsibility of the Council of States to ensure that dialogue is established in a way that makes it possible to find a solution. Then it is not enough to push responsibility over to the defense and say that this is to be done by the defense, as he has been employed in the defense. That responsibility must reach the Council of State. I hope we don't have to get this case back to processing several times. There will be a situation in which the State in which the employer should not come into being and which will be unworthy of both the way in which workers are to be treated and the lack of dialogue that has occurred in this case. The centre party will vote in favour of the proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left. We will not vote in favour of proposal No. 3, which says that Stortinget will provide a compensation. It is not, in our opinion, a matter which should lie with the Storting in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1594	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1597	I think the Council of State should still consider initiating a dialogue. This is not a matter between government and other social machinery. This is a case between the employee and the employer. In this case, therefore, the employer has acted unfairly against him, as he has been dismissed, and the termination is invalid. This is a special requirement for us as employers. It is neither a good situation nor a reasonable situation if this case continues to stand still. This offer that has been made and that has not been responded to, as far as I am aware, suggests that the employer should take an initiative and be generous, liberal, and try to get this in place. I would strongly recommend that the Council of State take such an initiative. Then I asked for the floor to be allowed to make an explanation of vote. It is the case that the Workers' Party is involved in the critical majority comments on this matter, and then it may seem as if we are jumping off in the middle of the sweat when we arrive at the adoption proposals here. As regards proposal No: One, we don't agree with that because the case stands for the court. So we don't want to go into this case that stands for the trial. As regards proposal No: 2, we have expressed our critical comments on this matter in the way we think is appropriate and reasonable. As regards proposal No: 3, to provide compensation to the person concerned, the first case has not been settled. Secondly, it is our opinion that the Storting should not assume the role of determining, defining and also determining substitutes, but leaving it to the right authorities of society. That is why we are not in favour of the proposals that have been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1614	At the outset, I would just like to say briefly that the Progress Party and the SV have promoted in their proposal No. 3, not applicable to compensation. It is a proposal for an uproar on the basis of which, as stated in the comments, it is an extraordinary situation in our view when an individual suffers so much congestion because the comments of the EOS Committee have not been followed up. However, there is no legal basis for going to the action for damages. In our view, this is two different things. In relation to the proposal for a new and unwarranted assessment, which we are promoting, it is not a proposal to instruct the courts. It's a suggestion to instruct the Government. The Council's second reply to me well illustrates why we are promoting such a proposal. What the Council of State says – if I understand her correctly, I hope she corrects me if I have misunderstood anything – is that she notices the criticism of the Greatness, and she has made routine changes. Unfortunately, the Council of State has not yet been able to say anything concrete about whether the criticism of the Storting in this specific case will have any consequences in relation to its treatment. On the contrary, a large number in comment form says: ‘In the view of the majority, a natural consequence would be that a new and unsound review of this matter had been carried out in line with their own guidelines.’ But the Council of State clearly and unequivocally says from the pulpit of the Storting that she does not find a new and unhindered review necessary. Of course, it's a big deal to say that it's a big deal to promote such a proposal, but I think a government council that takes on criticism in the form of a comment from a big crowd in the way that she says she disagrees, maybe asks for things to be promoted in the form of proposals. But I want to repeat the question, because it is possible that I have misunderstood the Council of State. I have understood her there that there are no consequences to point out of the criticism of the majority of the population in relation to this specific matter. Although this is not a line, I would strongly urge the Council of State, if at some concrete point in relation to the Ellingsen case there would be some practical consequences of the fact that a large number of people come up with a clear criticism, to exemplify it from the pulpit. I hope she can.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1633	It has been said that people must be treated properly. No one disagrees that people are being treated properly. Ellings were subjected to poor procedures during the process. No one disputes it, nor does the Council of State dispute it. The issues raised by the EOS Committee have been followed up by various government councils and will hopefully ensure that we do not experience inadequate procedures in the future. As regards the treatment of Ellingsen with regard to the judgment of the City Court, it is satisfied that he has received an offer for a position with a better salary. But for natural reasons, that the defence is being reorganized, he cannot get back exactly the same position. The second is, of course, that he cannot get back the same job, because the case is in the legal system because Ellingsen's lawyer has sued the State. It becomes a bit special that a State Council should go in to draw the case, when it is the other party that has sued the State. I note that the Progress Party and SV do not think that Ellingsen has been properly treated in terms of financial matters, and that they feel that the Stortinget should intervene in relation to the State Council as well as legal instruments. In other contexts, some are quick to present the mantra ‘equal to the law’. Other important principles — at least in the legal system — are the separate handling of each case. Assessments of the effect of a preliminary ruling and precedent effects are not to be confused with other countries, but relatively similar cases should be treated relatively equally — subject to specific circumstances. It's not entirely a coincidence that the kind of questions belong in the legal system. I would like to say that consistency and legal certainty are better taken care of there than in a Parliament. There are a lot of good politicians in both the Progress Party and the SV, but I'm not as sure that everyone is just as good a lawyer or a judge. I believe that there is a reasonable special practice to be followed when a single person's lawyer in an ongoing trial or after a closed trial is to be able to use the members of the Control Committee as a kind of appeal body for his client, and that the members of the Committee, on the basis of how sinful one individual appears, are in fact to review the conclusions of the judicial system. One should not fall victim to individual experts, nor should one fall victim to the ability of policymakers to ensure fair measurement of compensation in all the individual cases that, after all, exist. It's going to be a pretty nice situation if you want to be able to pick up a phone in every law firm in the city, either to the representative Hagen or to some of us if you're dissatisfied with what your client got in dollars and dollars, so that the control committee and the Stortinget – depending on the day-form and the level of how bad you think of the individual – will put off what you think is right. It has to be the consequence if you're going to treat most people in a proper way, because it can't be that we're going to discriminate. We're not going to treat Owen Ellingen specifically. What about all the others who feel ill-treated, who may have received lower compensations for worse things than the Owe Ellingsen has been exposed to? That is the consequence if the Stortinget would possibly adopt the proposal of the Progress Party and SV. I could imagine a little comment on how one would think such a practice would be in relation to the distribution of power in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1650	The President does not think the representative should be concerned that he is not getting any comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1653	Now I think the big representative, politician André Dahl forgot that that's what he's in this room. This isn't a courtroom. I got the impression that, sir. Dahl thought that this too is a courtroom. It's not. Here it is not about compensation and not about jus. This is politics. What we're doing here is we're controlling the Council of State's performance. This matter has not come here because some lawyers have contacted me or others. It has come here because the Storting's own control committee criticised the way Ellings had been treated. And then ask, sir. Dahl about what about all the others? I hope not that there are so many others who are in the situation that Ellingsen has been for a while, and that everyone has agreed – we should say – not good. Everyone agrees that Ellingsen has not received any good treatment, and a court has actually closed the case because the anchor was pulled. This applies to the enforcement of a judgment, and it is therefore the State that is the employer. And we're involved in this because our control committee has raised the matter in an annual report addressed by the Storting's Control and Constitutional Committee. I would also like to remind you, Mr President. Dahl on the statements of Svein Ludvigsen, who was the case rapporteur two years ago. There's no other case that looks like this. And it is clear that the adoption of an uproar – not a replacement, but a uproar – would of course also have been a tribute to Ellingsen. It would have been a real uprising The Storting had decided, understood a reproof of some former government councils who had not done their job. That would have been significant. It's not the amount that matters here. And it won't, I think, be any similar things. I hope that, in the future, we will have government councils in all the departments that make sure that in such cases a solution is found. André Dahl said in his first post that we should not do anything about this in Stortinget, because there were others who were better suited to solving these issues. It's not! Because then this had not been a matter today. Then the matter had been resolved. And I will once again join in what Kjell Engebretsen said, to strongly ask – and to give advice to – the Council of State to cut out the formal light that this is the Defence and Defence Command, not the Ministry of Defence, to resolve. It is the Council of State we control, and we are not satisfied with the way this matter has been dealt with and handled by the Council of State. Now she should show a much greater commitment, not just here in the hall, but through some meeting activities and by giving instructions – instructions – to her subordinate bodies. And the defense should know what an instruction or -- let's say -- a command is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1666	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3546]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1683	This is a matter of a small amount, but an amount that can provoke. The amount is NOK 3, an increase from NOK 108 to NOK 111. The reason why it can provoke is that in the setting under “Evaluations” it says: ‘The addition of the Service Plug-in is an important contribution to the process of raising the status of the seconded protected crew.’ So it has to raise the status. That's when you can ask: how much is the status raised by NOK 3 – and there are protective crews involved – when we know that it's only approx. 40 pst. of each year’s coal for the first time, and at the same time it can be read in your money that you save NOK 100000 by discharging your duty of protection. That's when you can feel a little provoked compared to if NOK 3 helps to raise the status. It's a unanimous committee that goes in for this. But I can promise, on behalf of the Progress Party, that we will work to ensure that the status of the guardians will be lifted in the future, and that we will contribute to the raising of the crown so that it really monies. There's not much to buy for NOK 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1695	It is late in the evening, and the starting point for the committee was that there should be no comment on this matter. But when Bredvold claims that NOK 3 is nothing, it has to be said that that's not the theme here. We're increasing the amount from NOK 108 to NOK 111, that's the daily allowance. We also said in the setting that we would come back to this matter of status lifting. That is why we have not considered this matter with regard to these three heads. I refer you to the setting that we will return to the matter of status raising when it comes as a separate matter for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1702	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3547]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1710	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1717	A total of 42 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Reidar Sandal, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, proposal No. 2, by Reidar Sandal, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 3 and 4, by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 6, by Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party the proposals No. 7 and 8, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, 9 – 11, by Reidar Sandal on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals Nos. 12 – 20, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 21 – 34, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 35 – 40, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, and the proposals No. 41 and 42, from Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 37, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party has been amended and distributed in the seats of the representatives. Here, there'll be a lot of out and in and a lot of subsidized voting, so we can just take the time we need. Mr Sandal has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1757	I would like to ask the President to arrange the vote in such a way that a first vote over XI in the vote – that concerns the question of the new cost key for social services – and then over the Progress Party's proposal, no. 26, which deals with the same thing. Then I would like to clarify that when it concerns the further handling of the matter, I assume that the matter of a new cost key, which is likely to then be agreed in accordance with proposal No. 26 will be dealt with in parallel in the Stortingen, so that the new system of new cost keys for social services can be implemented from 1 January 2004. Finally, when it comes to the proposals of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Progress Party and the Labour Party on the financial framework for the municipal sector for 2004, I would like to ask that the voting order be such that a first vote on the SV's proposal, then on its Central Party, then on its Labour Party and finally on the Progress Party's proposal. I would then like to call on the Labour Party to vote its representatives in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. 24, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1768	I'll try. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 41, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to set up a scheme in which municipalities may retain up to 2 pst. more of the tax revenue, by reducing its income accordingly.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1782	There is a vote on proposal No. 37, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal has been amended and distributed in a new version. The proposal reads as follows: «The total income of the local government sector shall be 8,25-8,75 billion. kronor for 2004.The growth in the free income of the local government sector shall be SEK 6.75 billion. 2004 crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1799	There is a vote on proposal No. 42, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: 1st@item: inlistbox The growth in total income in the local government sector shall be between 7,75 and 8,25 billion. 2004 crowns.2. The growth of free income in the municipal sector shall be about 5.25 billion. crowns in 2004.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1819	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 35 and 36, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 35 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Law of 6 June 1975 on property taxes to the municipalities, which means that property taxes can be issued throughout the municipality and which allow for faster changes in the level of property taxes than the current system.» Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate freer municipal tax procedures.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1841	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 38, 39 and 40, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to propose an increased framework to the 2004 government budget for the scheme of interest-free loans for the upgrading of school buildings.’» Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘Contributions to local cultural buildings, grants for local environmental protection, grants for municipal monitoring and monitoring of biodiversity, grants for sewerage measures and grants for holistic water management are not included in the framework grant.’;» Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘As of the financial year 2004, the Government requests the inclusion of the earmarked grant into the framework grant for the Council of Churches’.» The Coastal Party has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1870	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 21, 22, 23, 25, 27, 29, 30, 32 and 33, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals on how local democracy can be developed and how citizens of the different municipalities should be given increased incentives to participate in local policy. Including this, the Government is asked to present a comprehensive plan on how the municipalities will have access to planning and land matters within their own municipal borders.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to draw up a comprehensive plan to intensify the quality assurance of municipal services, including ensuring that municipalities have policy tools to ensure that citizens get the most out of tax money.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for the removal of the county municipality as a self-government level.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess alternative compensation schemes for the loss of a differentiated employer’s fee for the municipal sector. The Government is requested to present this in the 2004 State Budget.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider a greater degree of direct government user funding as a substitute for current framework funding.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more intensive plans to get young users with special needs out of institutions.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess and propose the coordination of the requirements with regard to the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a case to give challenge rights to private tenderers, in order to give private persons the right to make offers for the performance of municipal tasks, and the municipality undertakes to compare the costs and quality of the offer with the existing solution.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case in connection with the 2004 State Budget on State financing of municipal mergers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1929	Proposals Nos. 24 and 26 it'll get wet over later. There is now a vote on the proposals Nos. 28 and 31 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the entry point of the financing mechanism for users with special needs be set at NOK 400000 per year. user, with 70 pst. the compensation limit up to 600000 kroner. Above this the compensation limit is set to 90 pst. The allocation shall be an estimate.’;» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the establishment of its own parental supervision, which shall direct the supervision of institutions providing services in the care of the elderly.’;» The coastal party has announced that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1954	Proposal No. 34 is drawn. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12, 14, 18 and 19, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to grant free tax relief to municipalities, and to return to the Stortinget with such a payment, at the latest in the municipal bill for 2005.’» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make a compensation scheme that ensures full compensation for each municipality and county municipality in relation to the costs of an increase in the employer’s contribution.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish incentive arrangements for the distribution and implementation of inter-municipal cooperation solutions.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a review of the Municipality in order to remove obstacles to inter-municipal cooperation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e1988	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16, 17 and 20, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the government in the investigation for a new corporate tax model also issued a model in which parts of the tax belong to the county.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish a national experience base for intermunicipal cooperation. In such a base, experience must be gained from different ways of organising and operating inter-municipal cooperation. The experience base should also include key models for different forms of cooperation that municipalities can use and adapt to their local needs.’» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The size asks the Government in the 2004 budget to provide a fixed funding model for the ongoing upgrading of existing housing stock to the life-cycle standard.’» The coastal party has announced that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2017	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to introduce in 2004 a state top funding for particularly resource-intensive users of municipal services where 100 pst. of expenditure above NOK 600 000 per person. the user is covered by the State. The allocation shall be an estimate.’;» The Progress Party has indicated that they wish to support the proposal in a subsidiary manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2034	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget of the Government of 2004 requires the Government to contribute to the framework grant that part of the grant to cover the non-payment of camp school payments for all pupils. The right, Christian People's Party and the left have warned that they support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2053	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 11th from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to implement a financing mechanism for particularly resource-intensive users with an entry point of 700000 kroner where municipalities are compensated for 80 pst. of the expenditure of local authorities in excess of that amount. The scheme shall be financed as an estimate.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2068	We shall then vote on the motions for resolutions. 9 and 10, from the Workers' Party. The coastal party has announced that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2073	Could the President please repeat the two proposals? If we are to vote on a framework proposal from the Workers' Party, SV must support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2080	The President first took up proposal No. 11th@item: inlistbox The President shall now consider proposals Nos. Nine and ten. Proposal No. 11 I have not heard any warning that they support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2083	The SV voted in favour of that proposal. SV shall also vote in favour of proposal No. 9, for when our proposal for a framework has fallen, SV shall vote in favour of the Labour Party framework. Afterwards, we vote in favour of the frames of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2090	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2093	President! The same applies to the Centre Party for Proposal No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2100	This applies both to proposal No. 9 and proposal No. Ten?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2103	Only proposal No 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2108	Then the President will first vote on proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The decision requests the Government to submit without delay proposals for a State loan scheme or a fund scheme to enable municipalities to cover their pension costs. The purpose of such a scheme is that municipalities and county councils may borrow funds from the country or draw on the fund when the pension contribution is above the average but must pay back to the fund when the pension contribution is below the average. The use of the scheme by municipalities and counties shall not be taken into account when assessing the economic situation of the municipalities in relation to the right to raise other loans in the market.» The coastal party has notified that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2127	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The total income of the local government sector shall be between 63⁄4 and 71⁄4 billion. for 2004.The growth in the free income of the local government sector shall be 5 billion. 2004 crowns.’» The Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2148	The proposals are then put to the vote. 7 and 8 from the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Budget for 2004 to present a plan for reduced ownership interests in the local government sector.’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘Subsidies to institutions cf. cap. Item 61 is not included in the framework grant.» The coastal party has announced that they want to support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2170	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6, from the Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 5 not recorded Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to implement a financing mechanism for particularly resource-intensive users with an entry point of SEK 700000 which compensates for 80 pst. of the total cost on a national basis to particularly resource-intensive users in addition to that amount, described as model 2 in St.prp. [[2002-2003]] No 66 The Progress Party has, to the extent understood by the President, warned that they should vote in favour of this proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2180	The SV shall also vote in favour of this now that the second proposal is down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2187	The SV shall also vote in favour of what the Central Party shall vote in favour of it, but it shall not vote in favour of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2199	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3 and 4, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The State asks the Government in the 2004 budget to fully compensate the municipalities for the corresponding wage increases negotiated by the State with its employees in the national budget.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out an evaluation of the system of user-led assistants and to make appropriate proposals to strengthen supply.’ The Coastal Party has announced their support for these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2223	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The election rejects the Government's proposal in St.prp. [[2002-2003]] No 66 for the inclusion and liquidation of earmarked grants in the period 2005-2007.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2239	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Contributions to camp schools are not included in the framework grant.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2245	As a result of the fact that proposal No. 13 is adopted, we draw proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2252	Is that so to understand that it shall not be contested by proposal No. 1? The proposal has been withdrawn. Then we go to proposal No. 24, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to increase the free revenues of municipalities for 2004 by 1.5 billion. crowns in relation to the Government’s proposal.’;» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they will support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2273	Then only proposal No. 26. We'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2315	It is the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party that have the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2328	The President would like to point out here that there are typographical errors in the setting on page 75. Two proposals for decisions have received the same number — VI. The President will first address to voting what begins with ‘Operating grants...’. The next one shall have a number. VII, and No VII shall have points. VIII. The entire committee is behind VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2355	This shall be a number. VII, not No VI, VI, The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2376	This shall be a number. VIII, not No VII.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2397	The Labour Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2416	The President has understood that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party here will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2435	The Party of Workers, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are behind the setting of this Roman number.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2448	Before we move on, there will be a vote on proposal No. 26, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the autumn of 2003, the Government asks the Government to promote its own case for the Storting concerning changes in the cost key for the local government sector. This matter is being promoted in parallel with the submission of the 2004 State Budget.’.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party support this proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2472	It is the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party that are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2496	The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2525	The Party of Workers, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2544	The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2564	The Party of Workers, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2583	The party of progress wants to vote in favour here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2599	During the debate, Kari Lise Holmberg has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2609	The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2628	There is an alternative proposal from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:82 [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2646	Was there anyone who didn't vote right here?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2649	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2656	I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2663	Then there were 44 votes in favour and 55 votes in favour. With these votes, the proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e2670	: The minority proposal included in the setting has not been recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e3016	All chapters and items, except cap. 2661 is taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e3026	Cape. 2661 is taken up for voting. Here, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e3043	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party The proposal of the Progress Party is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e3968	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e4584	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 16 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to make changes to the ‘Declaration by the bridesmaids prior to the test of matrimonial conditions’ in line with the Marriage Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e4601	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 16 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider the possibility of a new addition to the foreign regulation requiring a documented divorce from a foreign made marriage before family reunification is granted on the basis of a new marriage.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e4617	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 16 June 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend Section 23 of the Foreign Regulation as soon as possible so as to make it possible for marriage contracts to give both sexes equal, religious and legal, rights to divorce.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e4634	Ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Aud Gaundal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 2-9, by Mr Hedstrom on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 10, from Inge Ryan on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 1 has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government introduce a new market organisation for milk by 1 January 2004 at the latest.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking, in the context of the 2004 State Budget, to propose that the turnover of self-produced agricultural products from its own garden be exempt from turnover tax up to NOK 100000 and that the VAT rate be set at 0.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e4668	Proposals Nos. 2-9, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Proposals for a new agricultural agreement are not accepted.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The existing system of agricultural agreements is repealed.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for agricultural subsidies and other State financial measures in relation to agriculture in the context of the State budget without prior negotiations.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The financial envelope empowers the Government to allocate agricultural subsidies for the remainder of the current financial year with a framework of 1 900 million. krona lower than the approved budget capped. 1150 — For the implementation of the agricultural agreement.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the repeal of all specific rules for the taxation of the agricultural industry in order to make it equal to other economic activities.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to submit proposals for the repeal of the Sale of Goods Act.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the winding-up of concessional limits granted under the Purchase Farming Act.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a system of tradable production quotas for cows’ milk which is not limited to county or regional level but which is made nationally.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e4886	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e4902	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to make adjustments to the fixed reindeer for West-Finnmark reindeer pasturage by 1 April 2005 at the latest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e4988	The President assumes that the Progress Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e5008	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e5023	During the debate Siri Hall Arnøy put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to carry out a complete new and unrelenting review of the issue of the safety clearance of Owe Ellingen.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Council finds Minister of Defence Kristin Krohn Devold’s treatment of the Ellingsen case critical.’ The centre party has announced that they want to support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e5047	Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.TitlesCroner2309Future expenditure:1Operating expenditure, increased by 200 000 from NOK 7 272 418 000 to NOK 7 272 618 000 Owe Ellingsen will be charged a surcharge of NOK 200000.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e5107	The rapporteur pointed out that the concept of the minutes to be annexed in the event of a so-called incurrency has been deleted from the Committee's proposal for a decision and that the wording is to be read as follows: ‘Until. S. No 273 [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e5424	The President proposes that this proposal be sent to the Committee on Transport. Harald T. Nesvik has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e5429	In view of the fact that the Minister for Fisheries has already during the day re-examined the decision referred to in this document No. The 8-proposal, I just want to commend him for quick work and draw the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-19-2.ana.ud1033e5434	The proposal in referendum item 299 has therefore been withdrawn. Further references were made:
