ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e28	The called alternate of the Akershu County, Harald Espelund, has taken the seat. The representative of Ursula Evje will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e36	On behalf of the representative Arne Sortevik and myself, I propose that higher education be given priority in the EEA negotiations and in the GATS negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e41	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e64	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Council Erna Solberg The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e80	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Unemployment is now growing sharply. Since the government change in autumn 2001, unemployment has grown from about 60,000 to nearly 100 000, i.e. About 75 more unemployed per year. the day since the autumn of 2001. It is particularly serious that the number of long-term unemployed is increasing, and that unemployment among young people and immigrants is increasing. And we know that the time off is easy to get stuck in. The freedom goes up more easily than it goes down. For the Workers' Party, the fight against unemployment is the most important element of economic policy. We believe that the government has been too passive for too long and not prioritised important measures against increasing unemployment. According to the Prime Minister, an economic policy that has led to a sharp increase in unemployment is 75 more unemployed per year. Today and cut off the day-to-day allowance for the unemployed, is a successful economic policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e89	I agree with the representative, Mr Stoltenberg, that the unemployment situation is worrying. Therefore, the fight against the increasing unemployment is a major concern of the Cooperation Government. We are pursuing an economic policy to deliberately counteract increasing unemployment. The availability is now about the same level as when Jens Stoltenberg himself had a primary responsibility for economic policy, namely when he was Minister of Finance. We're not satisfied with such a level of leave. We want to fight it. That is why we are now pursuing an economic policy aimed at reducing the main cause of the unemployment problem, namely a high Norwegian cost level in our companies compared to those we are competing with. When we travel around to the companies, we get very clear signals that their main problem is a high dollar rate and a high interest rate. The co-operation administration is pursuing an economic policy that makes interest rates moving downwards. It's now 1 pst. lower than when we took over from the Stoltenberg government. The crown course has begun to sink. This could facilitate the situation. The central bank manager said in his annual report that economic policy has contributed to the stability that makes it possible for us to achieve this. In addition, we are putting in place measures to actively help those who are unemployed to get to work more quickly, both by strengthening Aetat and by increasing the number of job vacancies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e100	It is true that after the krone price and the interest level have been at a record high level and we have had a rare distance from what we have in our neighbouring country, the double of what it is in the EU, the interest rates and the dollar are going down, and that is very good. The problem is that the exchange rate is going down because the unemployment rate is on the way up. What we did in the 1990s was we managed to bring down both the dollar rate, the interest rate and the unemployment rate. The exchange rate was stable, interest rates and unemployment decreased. The Labour Party has always warned against using increasing unemployment as an instrument of economic policy. The objective is to ensure Norwegian enterprises, to ensure low interest rates combined with lower unemployment — not that increasing unemployment becomes the main reason for reduced interest rates. I have also noticed that the Prime Minister is now starting to blame the opposition. The opposition, the Labour Party, has covered all its proposals for additions to the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e111	I think it's too easy to say that the krone price is going down because the unemployment is on the way up. There's probably a clear connection between a falling interest rate level and a falling interest rate. And after the governor held his year last week, which was hard to read except for a notice of new interest rate reductions, the decline in the dollar rate has speeded up. It says something about market expectations, and it shows that this policy is working. Otherwise, the Cooperative Government will not use unemployment as an instrument of economic policy. On the contrary, for us, full employment is a primary objective of economic policy. That is why we have also provided significant tax relief for our businesses, so that they can manage to maintain jobs and create new ones. The working party has opposed several of these. If the Labour Party's policy had been adopted, the business situation could have become even more difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e118	Since the theme is so serious, the President will allow four follow-up questions – first Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e121	I don't think there can be any doubt that there is one reason why the interest rate now goes downwards and that the exchange rate has been weakened: the ever-increasing unemployment figures that we are witnessing. I guess there's nothing in the state budget that was last adopted, which now in the new year was supposed to mean a change in relation to what was before, other than that unfortunately unemployment is on its way up. This, of course, is very dramatic, and that means that action on the part of society is necessary to prevent this. It is totally infertile for the government to blame for the opposition, and it is of course just as infertile that together one cannot find good, necessary measures to reduce unemployment. What surprises me is that the government is constantly talking about the longer term, about the revised and about the state budget, that there will be an improvement some time in an indefinable future, but at the same time it is new people who still have to stamp off the office. In the past, something has been done in such situations. For example, Willoch's government in its time put forward a Easter package, because it was necessary to get activity fast. Then is my challenge to the Government: Will the Bondevik Government take immediate action before the revised budget to get the wheels going?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e128	Let me first say that I agree with the representative of Djupedal in his concern for increasing unemployment. It affects many families and puts them in a difficult situation. That is why it is essential for the Cooperation Government to combat this unemployment. We're not out to blame for the opposition, but we have to say that if we change the fiscal policy, which has actually helped to reduce the interest rate and the dollar rate, then we're going to go on a wrong path, which can increase the unemployment rate, which can undermine the fight against unemployment, and the government can't be calm about that. I have allowed myself to say about this, because we now see trends in the Storting to adopt a number of expenditure proposals without any interference. At the same time, we know that the tax revenue of the state appears to be lower than originally budgeted, and this together can create a very challenge in the treatment of the revised national budget. We must not allow the budget to crack.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e136	Hill-Marta Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e139	One of the main problems in managing economic policy in a good way is that the Government has concluded a budgetary agreement with the Progress Party without actually having a party that, together with the Government, is behind the financial arrangement throughout the year. I see it as a mere disclaimer from the Prime Minister when he today accuses the opposition both in articles and in radio to contribute to increasing unemployment, accusing the Workers' Party of running around in the Stortinget and forming a majority without referring to the discovery. I have to ask: does the Prime Minister think that the increase in the number of people who have problems with electricity billing contributes to increasing unemployment? The Prime Minister said that the Stortinget adopted a number of proposals. I wonder what other proposals it has become the majority for in Stortinget after Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e146	It's not a mere discharge. A Prime Minister must have the opportunity to take part in the public debate and say so. That's what the Prime Minister has done, and I'm going to continue because the Labour Party's policy in this area is confusing. At one moment it is said that the government has spent too much money, and at the next moment you are on a proposal – and not just in the case of those affected by high electricity bills – that will drive up the costs. This is double communication. You have to choose one line, and then you have to decide whether you think the government spends too much or too little money. This is what the Prime Minister has allowed himself to say. It's not just about the power bill. This applies, for example: those who have nursery facilities paid by their enterprises. This is what the Workers' Party wants to subsidise through the tax system, and it has been adopted together with other parties, without any interference – a proposal that otherwise has a poor distribution profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e151	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e154	Today, we find that parts of the Norwegian industry are weurying, shutting down their business or moving abroad, and we have passed over 100,000 unemployed people. Also, shipping, which has proved its own excellence for many years and last year sailed in over 80 billion DKK in export revenues to Norway with significant ring-fences and over 70 000 jobs on land, is experiencing major problems, because we in Norway at the Government will not give the same framework conditions as we in the EU, which aim to build up as a maritime major act before 2010. Will the Prime Minister, who is responsible for the Government, now put in place net pay arrangements, exactly the same arrangements that exist in the EU, so that shipping and the seafarers can fold up our shirt sleeves and do the rest of the job themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e159	The President has some doubts about the relationship between the follow-up question and the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e162	Now it is known as Document No. Eight proposals for consideration by the Storting to address these issues and the views of the government parties will be clarified in this context. We have not so far been in favour of a general net pay scheme, nor have all our competitors in this area. The pattern is quite different. What's a problem for our shipping is much of the same thing as for the rest of the world: a high interest rate and a high dollar rate. It's now going down. If we are able to maintain a policy in this area, hopefully also with the assistance of the Progress Party, with which we made a budgetary settlement, these problems will gradually be reduced. We have also announced that we will have a review of all the arrangements for our shipping by submitting a message to the Stortinget about this. Then we can analyse how our competitive conditions are in relation to our competitors.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e169	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e172	I agree with the Prime Minister that the situation in Norwegian business is currently such that the widest possible cooperation is required in the United Kingdom in order to avoid continuing to increase unemployment. In this way, of course, the Government has a problem with the partner they have chosen in Stortinget, as the Progress Party as soon as the occasion arises, leaps from the agreements they have concluded, and enters into other agreements in Stortinget. But my question to the Prime Minister is: In the situation we are now, will the Co-operation Government continue to implement significant tax reliefs, tax reliefs that will mainly be targeted at individuals, and which in this way will act as a driving force for consumption? That's what we least need. What we now need to do is to focus on building up business, investing in both research, innovation, etc. How has the Government intended to meet this situation? Is it still necessary to provide tax relief and, at the same time, cut public budget appropriations for research, innovation and welfare services?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e179	I agree that we should use the tax instrument to stimulate research and innovation. That is what the Cooperation Government has done. We are the ones who have put forward and adopted the TaxFUNN scheme, which is now applicable to all Norwegian companies, i.e. companies can switch to research and development work and get tax deductions. This has become a very popular arrangement. There are more than 3000 companies that have now applied for a tax proceeds of about 200 000. One billion kroner. This scheme works. It contributes to research and innovation. Otherwise, it is a false claim to say that we have presented tax reliefs that go mainly to private and households – on the contrary! About four-fifths of the tax reliefs provided and adopted by the Cooperative Government have gone to businesses and businesses. This applies, for example: the removal of the investment levy, to the extent that it was the majority of previous depreciation rules, flight passenger charges, double taxation on dividends; [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e186	That's the follow-up questions we were going to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e190	I'm glad the president got it fixed!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e195	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e198	I am pleased that the Prime Minister boasts of some things that the Progress Party received during the negotiations with the government parties on the budget. I have a question for the Prime Minister in the same trouble that we have now faced. He claims that we must pursue a tight fiscal policy and that policy must be consistent with the budget. We've noticed that all along. But since the adoption of the budget, very dramatic things have happened. Financial policy has actually become much tighter than planned, through the sky-high increases in electricity prices. That's the one. The second is that unemployment has grown dramatically, increasing the cost of unemployment benefits and reducing tax revenues. Therefore, the need for a separate unemployment action package is something that should now be addressed. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: will he ensure that, either before or at least as part of the revised national budget, we receive a package of measures against increasing unemployment as a result of a dramatic change in the conditions in reality in relation to what they were during the budgetary procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e205	Of course, the government will address the unemployment situation in the revised national budget and consider measures to further combat it. But at the same time, it is important that we do not change the fiscal structure, because then we can risk jeopardizing the interest rate reductions and the reduced dollar rate that are now on the way. I also refer to the Governor's speech in which he referred to fiscal policy and said: ‘Activity rule’ — i.e. for withdrawals from the Petroleum Fund — ‘have been followed. It makes a good contribution to stability in itself.’» This was a clear characteristic of the government's financial arrangement now making sense to get the interest rate and the exchange rate down. It is the main contribution to combating unemployment. Within these frameworks, of course, we are committed to discussing measures to combat unemployment, both in terms of measures that can actively put people into work, and in labour market measures that can help those who are unemployed to get a new job more quickly. There's also a certain new interesting feature in the vacancy picture. It is that relatively many with high levels of education, among others. in the ICT sector, now available. It may require other types of measures than traditional ones that have been used in the past to combat unemployment. But once again, I would like to state that the Cooperation Government is taking the development of unemployment seriously. It's essentially for us to fight increasing unemployment, because this is a big problem for those who become unemployed. There's nothing the government sits passive and looks at.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e219	The rule of action was broken by NOK 2 billion already in the current year's budget. In the meantime, revenue has fallen, and expenditure has increased. If you follow the rule of action, either the government has to increase taxes and taxes or reduce other expenditure further. Both parts will lead to an increase in unemployment. Is it really the case that, as others also claim, an increased unemployment rate should be used as the main instrument of policy to reduce interest rates and interest rates? We disagree. Will e.g. Does the government ensure that, when accepting a moderate wage settlement, but not a zero settlement, two steps are taken: instructions to all companies in which the State has an influence on sound wage policy in line with what ordinary people receive, and offers tax reliefs to try to obtain a zero voluntary settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e224	The action rule is not broken. The so-called real rate of return, i.e. taking a real rate of return over several years and not mechanically just for each year, is not contrary to the rule of action. It complies with the rules of action. So the government hasn't broken the rule of action. We got that clear word from the governor. He said, ‘The rule of action has been followed’. This is a direct quote. This is also what makes policy work now, in the sense that interest rates and exchange rates are falling. The co-operation administration will not use unemployment as an instrument at all, neither to bring interest down nor for other purposes. Full employment is our main objective in economic policy. But then it's important to get the interest down. The cooperation in income policy that we have begun with the social partners is also an important element in the fight against unemployment. I have made it quite clear that the leaders of both the state and the private must go ahead and show moderation if you are to expect the employees to do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e236	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e239	I think it was an interesting round between the Prime Minister and the representative Hagen. What is particularly interesting is that it is the Progress Party which is the parliamentary basis of this government, as Carl I. Hagen himself has formulated it. The Christian People's Party and the Right elected after the elections to form a government based on the support of the Progress Party and have chosen to adopt budgets through budgetary agreements with the Progress Party. At the same time, we see that the Progress Party and the Government strongly disagree on how economic policy is to be pursued, and it creates some of the unforeseeable, some of the uncertainties and some of the problems that Norwegian businesses and Norwegian jobs are struggling with. That is why I believe what we have now witnessed: the discussion between the Progress Party, which is the government's parliamentary basis according to them, and the government parties, underlines the need for more committed cooperation between parties in the Grand Duchy, so that we can have stable and predictable government relations in this country. I wanted to be a supporter of a centre/left-cooperation and wonder what the Prime Minister is really following.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e246	Now I realized that the Labour Party parliamentary leader gave up a government debate. The Prime Minister is in charge of a cooperative government, which I believe was the natural result of the election in autumn 2001, which governs, and which governs well. Stoltenberg has advocated cooperation between the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. Now I understood that the new, upcoming leader of the Center Party almost canceled it a few days ago. When we look at how these parties crack into central foreign and security policy issues and into central economic policy issues, I see with some wonder the alternative representative Stoltenberg is looking to build up. These three parties also disagree on the bottom line of economic policy, namely monetary and credit policy, and on the design and practice of the rule of action. So the Cooperation Government is clearly the best option.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e253	Per Sandberg for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e256	I'm not going to extend the debate on government constellations, but I'm recording that Stoltenberg should probably have entered the government premises if it's possible to prove what they're claiming in opposition, and what they're not doing in position. But what I want to challenge the Prime Minister is to use unemployment in relation to the dollar and interest rates. I really want to believe in the Prime Minister. We know that today several thousand workers and people in the construction industry are leaving, and we know that there are many projects both in the road sector and in the construction sector just waiting to get started. In a situation where unemployment is increasing, the government should do something in relation to these projects, without affecting either the rate or the interest rate, but simply getting people out of the unemployment line, thereby also saving the funds that the government has to pay out in unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e264	We need to see the context of economic policy. It was former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland who said everything is related to everything. That's the same thing here. There are a lot of projects you could be tempted to put a lot of money into, and that alone are reasonable, but then the result might be wrong. If we, for example, Now blows up the public budgets during this year, we are in danger of undermining the fight against unemployment by not going down, as we would like, nor the price of the crown. Indeed, a great deal of what is now being proposed today is a traditional counter-cyclical policy, which led in the 1980s and partly in the 1990s, and which did not give the desired results. I have to remind you that in 1993 – otherwise during a working party government – the unemployment rate was record high, it was up to about a quarter. 130 000. We must not pursue a policy that leads us back there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e271	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e274	The Prime Minister referred to the anniversary of Gedrem. This may well be difficult to understand in any way other than by admitting to the fault of the Central Bank’s Governing Board for several years in the form of the incorrect weighting of the monetary policy mandate. This is also seen in the practice of this mandate, which fortunately now has a somewhat broader approach. This means that it is this one-sided emphasis on inflation, which this government has also defended all along, while not taking into account production, employment and not least an ever stronger krone, which has turned Norwegian industry out. That's what has turned the Norwegian industry out, nothing else, to such an extent. Now, fortunately, we see that Gedrem also in the future, hopefully, chooses to focus on this differently, that is, to include the whole of the economy, not just inflation. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister agree with this approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e281	I have nothing to say about the Governor's approach to this in his year's edition. It was a clear recognition that fiscal policy is now working. What I've been saying in the last few days is that now we don't have to hide this. It is quite right, as the representative, Mr Djupedal, says, that the mandate given to the Central Bank is not a unilateral emphasis on just one criterion, that it should be directed towards inflation of 2.5 pst. in the long term some years ahead. But within that framework, the Central Bank has some discretion, and it is exercised. We have no plans to change the guidelines for the Central Bank, which was otherwise presented by the last Labour Party government, and which was widely endorsed here in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e288	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e291	I have a question for the Prime Minister. There is a very important and serious draft fight in the Security Council on which way to proceed. On the one hand, the United States and the United Kingdom are impatient and point towards using military instruments. On the other hand, Germany, France and Russia want more time for weapons inspectors. It looks like the so-called UN track has split into two. My question to the Government is: Which of the UN tracks does the Bondevik government support?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e300	I do not want to agree that there are two UN tracks. For me, the UN track is the peace trail. The fact that there is a drag fight ahead of a treatment in the Security Council is not, in fact, abnormal – that is the normal thing. This was also the case before the adoption of Resolution 1441, which led to the return of weapons inspectors to Iraq, and to Iraq's first regret of the invasion of Kuwait. Our view is that if the weapons inspectors can now report progress, so that continued inspections and controls are meaningful, yes, the weapons inspectors will have more time. Here we follow a completely consistent line, and I think it is right that we now hear the report of the weapons inspectors back to the Security Council. Only then do we have a basis for assessing whether they can still do a meaningful job inside Iraq. That's our hope, and that's our wish. For the Norwegian Government, it is imperative that we can disarm Iraq without the use of military power, that is, through a peaceful solution. It must also be added that it is only when Iraq is under pressure that they start cooperation. I don't think anyone can come from that. It's a paradox for all of us. It was only when Resolution 1441 was adopted that Iraq opened the country for inspections. And it was only after new pressure through both Blix's first report and Minister of Foreign Affairs Powell's contributions to the Security Council that they continued to cooperate. Now Saddam Hussein still has a chance. If he fully cooperates with the weapons inspectors, we believe that this is still an opportunity for a peaceful solution, and that is the line of the Norwegian government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e311	I guess the paradoxes are more than that. It is well that if the United States and the United Kingdom had been able to move forward just as they would, there would be war with Iraq a long time ago. What has created the space for action that weapons inspector Blix and his people could use to put just that pressure on Saddam Hussein, which also makes you get concessions from Iraq, is that a flank is drawn where Germany, France and Russia insist that you have more time, because that job is actually meaningful. Is it really the case that there are no ambitions in foreign policy other than to lean back and wait for what is happening in the Security Council, while other tone-setting countries are helping to create the space of action that can actually mean that this conflict can find a peaceful solution? It's not like there's no threat of war against Saddam Hussein that has characterized the last situation. I guess that's probably the lack of faith that it can actually be a peaceful outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e316	The government has far higher ambitions than just leaning back, and we're not leaning back. We have been active, we are active, and we are using our channels – both Prime Minister, Foreign Minister, our delegation to the UN and our embassies in the important countries. But Kristin Halvorsen was in on something. It could have been war a long time ago if we hadn't got the United States on the United Nations track. That is exactly what I have said over and over again: if we skip the UN track by pre-conclusion, we also legitimise that others do it, such as. U.S.A. I have allowed myself to say that – and I still believe so – would have increased the risk of war. That's why it's so important to keep the United States and the United Kingdom and the others on track. If the Security Council manages to get together, I think that's the best way to avoid a military conflict. That's what the Norwegian government is working for. If inspections can still be meaningful, we'll go in for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e323	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e326	The head of the weapons inspectors, Hans Blix, and the previous head, from 1991 to 1998, Professor Ekeus, also from Sweden, have both said that the reason why the inspectors came back and were accepted back into Iraq was that Resolution 1441 was linked with military troops relocations and preparation for war. They say that without there being a credible threat to a UN action, the inspectors would not have come in at all. Does the Prime Minister agree that the responsibility taken by England and the United States to demonstrate also the willingness of the United Nations to put power behind its demands is a prerequisite for the work of the inspectors, and that even the free passengers of Russia, France and Germany would not be brought in if it were not for this effort and the great costs incurred by the United States and England? And does he agree that the only possibility for a peaceful solution is that Saddam Hussein is giving in because he is afraid that it will be an action?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e334	It is true that it is the combination of Resolution 1441 and a threat and a pressure that has gradually increased Iraq's cooperation. But it is part of the paradoxical situation of the Iraq conflict that there are also signs that there can be a peaceful end to this conflict if Saddam Hussein cooperates, which gives me hope that it can be a peaceful solution. Because if Iraq had faced a situation where there was only one answer, namely war, Iraq would not have cooperated either. But because Iraq is also facing the possibility that cooperation can provide a peaceful solution, it is increasing its chances. That's why I also believe that all those who speak out and demonstrate for peace, actually have the function that they also participate and give the peace trail a content. [[The President clubs.]] The situation is full of paradoxes...
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e339	Time's up. Kettil Bjørklund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e344	The situation throughout the Middle East is very tense as a result of the military escalation around Iraq and also because of the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians. There has been considerable agreement for a long time that the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians must be resolved before stability can be achieved in the region. Israel is not doing enough to contribute to a peaceful solution, despite repeated UN resolutions. In this situation, Norway has again increased imports of defence equipment from Israel. Does the Prime Minister find it unproblematic that Norway is buying defence equipment from Israel in such a situation? Or can the Prime Minister agree that it is a bit unfortunate political signal to send to the outside world now?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e351	I have to say that the Norwegian authorities have not introduced any boycott of goods from Israel, nor in the defence sector. A proposal on this was actually rejected here in Stortinget last June, so the majority of people have not wanted to turn on a boycott line. The majority is familiar with the code: Norway does not sell weapons to countries that are at war, where war threatens, or where there is civil war. On that basis, purchases that trigger repurchase obligations will not be relevant, nor will it be in the case of Israel. Norwegian arms purchase is assessed according to our needs and the current situation in the supplier country at all times. There are no general guidelines on the acquisition of armaments from countries in a warlike situation, but there are specific guidelines for defence equipment from Israel, and they require that arms purchases from there be submitted to the Ministry of Defence and approved by the Minister of Defence. It has also been done in these individual cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e356	Åslauga Haga – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e359	The Iraq conflict has also triggered a division within NATO. We are not going to exaggerate that matter, but the matter has to be handled. The disagreement in NATO has never concerned itself with what the Government has largely produced as, a question of whether to defend Turkey in a war in Iraq. Everyone has agreed on that. But what's the underlying question, and the question that needs to be addressed, is whether you want NATO to evolve to become a more offensive alliance, or whether NATO will continue to be what it's essentially been, a defensive alliance. So some countries now need to act with a vigour in order to help reduce tensions in NATO. Norway has an opportunity to do so as a NATO country and because we are outside the EU, an EU that is deeply divided on this issue. My question to the Prime Minister will then be: Does Norway want to act as a tyrant in terms of helping to build up tension in NATO, or do you want to put yourself on a defensive line here as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e364	No, neither here nor in any other question, we put ourselves on a defensive or passive line. We wanted to build up the tensions that had built up in NATO, which fortunately in the current situation – everything when it came to the question of the defence of Turkey – found its solution, in fact with active Norwegian assistance. So in the acute situation, Norway was active, and we'll be there in the future. I agree with Mr Haga that NATO has been and will be an ally with a defensive character. But, as you know, during the NATO Summit in Prague, which I myself participated in last autumn, NATO adopted new guidelines where we also see the fight against weapons of mass destruction and the fight against terrorism as important challenges. I have understood that Haga's representative does not disagree, and I have also understood it so that she agreed with the line that the Government agreed on in the defence of Turkey in any war situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e369	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e372	I want to ask a question to the Minister of State. The municipalities are struggling with too tight a financial framework. The municipal minister has repeatedly said that municipalities can save large amounts of money and outsource services. The right-hand-steered Asker municipality has tried out the municipal minister's recipe. In the media over the last few days, we have received shock reports about the conditions of Risenga's nursing home, a nursing home run by private people. A relative says this to VG: «I even did a lot of the job that the hospital really was responsible for. But I don't want to criticize the caregivers in any way. They did all that power. I criticize the hunt for money that has made its way into the care sector in Asker. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State really think that municipalities should solve their problems by offering to look after the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e382	I don't think the municipal sector is going to solve its problems today just by putting the care of the elderly on the market. But I would like to remind you that we have a lot of good examples that there are actually saved funds, that not least the use of competition also provides efficiency in the public sector, i.e. in the municipal sector itself. An interesting experiment is done in the municipality of Us, where the same nursing home has two different departments, and one is exposed to competition, the other is not exposed to competition. There the head of the municipal section says that it is quite obvious that the competitive part helps them to get a pressure and an incentive to operate better, because they can always compare with others who find better forms of operation. I believe that just using competition as an instrument – that does not necessarily mean that the private should win the tenders – will help to find better forms of organisation. So I think that similar examples to those from Risenga will be found in many places in the public sector as well. I have seen many reports in the past that just show that the situation in some hospitals can be difficult even in the public sector, not least if on the unbest manned parts of the day new patients appear and you are not prepared, and there is not enough contact between those who print, and those who are to accept, new patients. One of the interesting things that often happens through outsourcing is that politicians go from being defenders of what exists to being critics and creating better systems to follow up tenders, and therefore more public debate is also linked to the results of privatised and competitive hospitals. But I don't think it's possible to say that Risenga and what's the case there, in this area is special or different, and that these situations could not occur even in public hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e387	I thank you for your answer. The situation at this hospital is such that the county doctor now fears that two deaths at the hospital are due to the manning situation. Ambulance staff had to look between Christmas for 45 minutes before they found at all a caregiver who could take care of a nursing patient. The rapporteur in Asker, when he is going to explain this, is more concerned about talking about the tender papers than talking about liability. I understand that the municipal minister can see this as effective, and I understand that the employees are experiencing a pressure. However, my question is: is this good care for the elderly, and is it such conditions that the municipality minister wants to have around in the municipalities of Norway? Is this what should be the consequences of competitive outsourcing?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e393	No, I don't think this is good care for the elderly. I think we have a lot left before we find good ways to run care centres, where quality is at the heart. It is clear that we have too low staffing some places in the care of the elderly. But when the Workers' Party now chooses to make it a matter of competition, I regret to say that this situation is also widespread in Norwegian public care for the elderly. We have poor organisation of user resources in some places, and we have too low staffing. I think it is important that we do a job related to the quality requirements to be set in the context of competitive outsourcing. One of the interesting tender projects we have seen in the last year is in Trondheim City, which, because they have good control of their spending, has chosen to compete with a given price and ask: what quality do we get for this? They therefore compete for better quality of care for the elderly, and not just for saving money.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e402	There will be follow-up questions – Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e405	Such situations as the representative Hanssen referred to in his main question can also be found in public institutions that are not put to tender. This is becoming a general problem because many municipalities are struggling with deficits. Most municipalities are governed by the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, and it is in relation to the priorities of each municipality that such situations occur. We all agree that care for the elderly now suffers from priorities and a tight local economy. Is it not time for the Government and the Council of State to also follow up the desire of the Progress Party for a state full funding of both care for the elderly and school, so that we do not have the responsibilities powdered as we now see? The municipalities are indebted to the state, and the state is indebted to the municipalities. Now, the state has to provide full funding for these tasks, so that we avoid situations that were referred to in the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e412	There are many major challenges in care for the elderly in the future. I don't believe the answer to those challenges is government. I think the answer is to make sure that there are more people who want to work in the care of the elderly, that resources in this country are directed from the administration to the provision of services, and that we get a good balance between institutional places and a good home-based care. In fact, all this is done better in the municipal sector than if it is done by the state. And there won't be any more money from the state taking over it, will there? In that case, the answer should be to give more money to municipalities over the budget. And then they would have made a better solution. I see that there are many challenges we have to deal with, but I also want to say that when we got into a deficit situation in 2002, it was among other things. because we got a high paycheck in the middle of the year that made it difficult for the municipalities to govern. And it's unfortunately so that a high paycheck also goes at the expense of the services. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e419	Jens Stoltenberg – for follow-up questions The President is going to be equally brutal against everyone in terms of speaking time. Most people here have so much experience in Stortinget, especially with clocks and speaking time, that they see when time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e424	I have a follow-up question for the Prime Minister. Huge nursing homes have been a flagship for those who want not only privatisation but commercialisation into the care of the elderly and health care services. Private companies have as their primary objective to make money, to get a return on invested capital, and to go with profits and thus get profits. This cannot be the main objective of care for the elderly. Quality, care and proximity must be the main objective. And that's the problem of the increasing commercialisation and privatisation we now see in the care of the elderly. This has previously warned Bondevik very strongly against, for example. in a very good chronicle, in which he strongly warns against giving private commercial operators too much role in the care of the elderly. He believes that hospitalization in the last part of life will be provided by people who don't have time to hold them in their hands. The Christian People's Party will therefore be careful to allow commercial actors to take over in the health and social sector. [[The President clubs.]] The question is whether Bondevik agrees with the Minister of State, who encourages more commercial use. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e435	Excuse me, Jens Stoltenberg. This with speaking time also applies to you! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e438	I want to stand by what I wrote in this “groaning good” chronicle, which I got such a great character from the representative Stoltenberg. The municipalities have some freedom in this area. And it is clear that when they are going to lay down tendering conditions and decide who may be given such a mandate, quality and care shall be decisive criteria and not maximum performance or profit for those who are required to be entrusted. So it's up to the municipalities to be very strict, and it's my call that they should be, so that the care of the elderly is of quality. That is why I do not think that private companies here will or should be given a dominant position. I think the public is essentially going to run this. It is essential that the public should be responsible for its operation and quality. Then, within this framework, the individual municipality gets to use the freedom they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e447	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e450	My question also goes to the Prime Minister. SV and the Prime Minister agree that the quality is the most important. Then the Prime Minister and the Government also have a responsibility to define that quality. For it will also control the need for resources in the municipal sector. As it is now, almost no one serves on the private offerings. So far, there have been unrealisticly low offers. The private offers have been characterised by bankruptcy and poor offers to users as well as liquidation, and very many municipalities and townspeople have to take over hospitals that have gone through a deficit. The problems these municipalities face can get a lot of municipalities gradually if you continue with the Government's more competitive solution. Will the Prime Minister take responsibility for setting quality objectives first and then defining how much money is needed to meet these quality objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e461	The government takes responsibility for quality objectives, both in the healthcare sector and in the care of the elderly. In the case of care for the elderly in particular, new quality standards are emerging which give substance to the quality of care for the elderly. If there are such experiences as the representative Karin Andersen now referred to, I expect that there is something the municipalities notice and take the consequences of. There's probably not just such a bad example. There might also be some other people that are clearly better. But it is the public responsibility to set quality standards in the care services. That is, of course, the responsibility of the state. That is the responsibility of the municipalities, and they must act if they are not in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e469	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e472	I'm going to ask a question to the Minister of State. The government is posing a threat to pressure in the economy to the fragile local economy. But giving more money to the municipalities means that one prevents cutbacks and does not increase activity, and thus not pressure, while giving tax breaks is stimulating more private consumption and thus contributing to pressure. The total amount of tax for 2002 and 2003 is minus the investment charge of nearly 11 billion kroner. With the Government and the Progress Party, people with low incomes have received several hundred bills, while people with half a million dollars, according to government figures, have earned $6,000, and higher revenues much more. The government has announced 14 billion dollars in taxes. At the same time, messages about high-record municipal economy come in school and care. Does the State Council really mean that children and the elderly are going to take the costs with the Right's tax promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e479	The main part of the tax relief that this government has so far implemented has gone to business. I have to say that I do not understand a debate that concerns that if we have high wage costs in this country, 36 pst. higher than our average partners, we will help to ensure that the industry also has higher capital costs, while at the same time ensuring that we get competitive inequality in all areas, leading to companies moving faster out. Therefore, it has been important to make part of the tax changes to stimulate enterprises to stay in the country, to ensure that there are people who are interested in investing in Norwegian business. If we see e.g. in the fishing industry, it would have been important that we had got more people to put up with it. I do not see this as a contrast to the fact that we are also able to bet within the municipalities. Local authorities have grown in revenue this year, but expenditure has increased. The question then is: is it important to give more in income or to have a policy that attacks on how expenditure is generated? The latter is the most important thing to improve local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e486	I want the Prime Minister to answer a follow-up question. The government's tight municipal economy, signed with the support of the Progress Party, involves over 100 linked churches, reduction in church settings, proposals on the characteristics of marriage and burial. The center party wants to call about an open and inclusive church. We find it absurd that a Christian People's Party-led government cannot even support the availability of such a Community system as the Church. In addition, there are ugly cuts to children and young people. We won't accept this. Nor will we accept that the government is talking away the tax burden of dividends and reduced top taxes when he went to business. Here's money that can be better. Does the Prime Minister mean that children and the elderly now have to pay the costs with the Right's tax promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e493	The answer to that is of course no. Four-fifths of tax reliefs have been made easier for businesses. If we hadn't given them, the situation for many of them would have been even more difficult and maybe even more free time. I know that there are parties here on Stortinget that want to increase the tax and tax burden, also for business. It's undermining the fight against unemployment. It doesn't want the Co-operation Administration. What has been provided by personal taxes has been largely given to those with low incomes, among other things. through increased minimum deductions. I'm glad the Center Party will ring the bell about an open people's church. It also wants the Co-operation Administration. We're in the process of looking at the church economy in particular. There are very different priorities in the municipalities in this area. We look at both short-term and long-term measures to improve the balance of the economy of the Norwegian Church, so that we avoid such examples that we have had some of them in the last winter, which is also linked to the extreme situation in the power market and electricity prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e500	There will be follow-up questions – Reidar Sandal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e503	A lot of municipalities have a lot of economic needs. It affects the school supply for children and young people. In addition, there is a very negative impact on the supply that older people and caregivers are in great need. State Council Solberg has been reprehensible when these conditions have been mentioned. New material shows that everyday life is very serious in many municipalities. The bottoms are large, and the situation hasn't been so bad throughout the post-war period, asserts the Central Union of Municipalities. Is the Council of State Solberg as reprehensible as it did to the indication of the lack of money in the municipalities, or has the Council of State at least become a little soft on the problems of older people who are in need of care?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e508	I'm very humble about the problems that are in the municipal sector. There is no doubt that 2002 was a difficult year, because it was much higher in the middle of the year than was foreseen. That is why a lot of people got into a deficit situation because they had a very short time to resume a record high pay settlement over the negotiations of the Municipal Councils' Central Association. I would like to say that I think it is striking that an organisation that frames up all the reasons why the deficit has arisen forgets to mention the one reason that they themselves had control over as an employer party, and does not mention the wage-setting that is what most of the municipal politicians I meet mention first on the list of what broke out in 2002. We have to work to make better use of resources in the municipal sector, get a grip on expenditure growth in Norway as a whole, so that the increased revenue and the increase in money actually received by the local government sector go to better services and not just to cover increased expenditure in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e515	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e518	I'm going to be allowed to follow up with the Prime Minister, because I thought it was interesting to experience the difference between the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Municipal Council in terms of the view of competitive outsourcing as a good tool for saving money in the municipal sector, because that's what this is all about. I want to ask the Prime Minister if he shares the view that appeared in the Nettavis today, namely that the municipal minister can also imagine cutting back in the municipal sector in the revised, so that the pressure on services is even worse than they are today. One of the methods that can then be used by municipalities is, for example: to streamline their school structure, to drop out of a primary school. In many cases, what happens then is that Prime Minister Bondevik’s law of free school gives parents the opportunity to set up a private school, with the result that the state has equal expenditure, the municipalities save no money – and they are left with only one option, to cut in the care of the elderly. Does the Prime Minister agree with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e525	State Council Solberg has not been interviewed by Nettavisen. She has not said what the representative Karin Andersen now refers to, according to herself at least, and I choose to believe that. So that's really going to be the basis for the question. In the budget agreement with the Progress Party, we have said that we should have a new review of the municipal economy in the context of the revised national budget. As I have pointed out earlier in the spontaneous Question Time, the situation in front of the revised national budget is quite challenging, because some of the revenue is being reduced, and the Stortinge has adopted and is about to adopt new expenditure increases, which can create a gap. We've allowed ourselves to tell you about and warn you about that. Then we're going to present the municipal economic proposition for next year. In this respect, the municipal minister said, at the latest on TV last night, that new, fresh money will come to the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e533	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e536	My follow-up question also goes to the Prime Minister, because this is about a serious situation for the local economy, and therefore about the public welfare offer. I agree, to the extent that it is not just the outsourcing of competition that is the problem, but it is the municipal economy as a whole. It is a cross of thought when rapporteurs from the Christian People's Party say that they hear the Prime Minister and the Christian People's Party say that the local economy should be the field of activity. 1 – and then the municipal minister comes and alerts tightening. Is it nice to ask who is in charge? After all, the Christian People's Party is a party that has traditionally wanted to balance private consumption in relation to public welfare, recognizing that if you skip too much in private consumption through tax credits, you have less room to invest in public welfare. I have to ask the Prime Minister once again, on the basis of what he has said earlier today: how does the Prime Minister see the dilemma in the relationship between private consumption and public welfare, when the Government has already provided 19 billion dollars in tax bills and has promised tens of billions more?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e543	If we hadn't given these tax breaks that went to business for 4/5, the situation for our businesses and employment could have been even more serious than it is. We follow clear strategies to combat unemployment, to have a tight fiscal policy to reduce interest rate and crown rates, tax relief to businesses, more research and development efforts and a strengthening of Aetat. This is an active fight against unemployment, and it is one of the most important things to maintain strong public welfare. Moreover, the reduction in interest rates of 1 pst., to which we have contributed, has given the municipality sector a gain of about $800 million. kr. It also belongs in the picture. I know about several municipalities that now see this as a clear contribution. The cooperative government and the Christian People's Party stand, since it was specifically asked about it, for the further development of the welfare society, and we are fully aware that the local economy is thus important. That is why we are also concerned about balancing income and expenditure in the local government sector, and that is what is going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e552	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e557	There will be a good deal of changes in the list of questions set out, and in this context the President refers to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Signe Øye to the Minister for Finance, has been transferred to the Minister for Social Affairs who is directing him. At the request of the Social Minister, this question is moved and answered before question 15, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 3, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Justice, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question 6, from the representative Ola D. Gløtvold to the Minister for Justice, has been transferred to the Minister for Transport who is directing him. However, the question is answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Transport, who has been away. Question 19, drawn from the representative Knut Storberget to the Minister for Transport. Questions 20 and 21, from the representatives Arne Sortevik and Torbjørn Andersen, respectively, to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, are moved and answered, at the request of the Council of State, in response to question 6, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 22, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister of Defence, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 23, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e578	Question 1 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e585	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘I have registered that the Minister of Agriculture has visited Østfold and engaged in Vansjø. The water source of 60000 inhabitants is at risk of being destroyed both as a source of drinking water and as a recreational area. Agriculture accounts for a substantial part of the run-off of the watercourse, and I have addressed this in a previous question. Akershus and Østfold have major pollution problems in their watercourses, and funds for specific environmental measures in agriculture have been significantly reduced to these two counties. What will the Council of State do?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e594	Reduction of erosion on agricultural land is most important in order to reduce pollution from agriculture. The measure amended tillage is therefore the most important measure in Eastfold and Akershus. This measure accounts for approx. 80 pst. the reduction in the phosphorus run-off from agriculture achieved in Akershus and Østfold until 2002 in the context of the follow-up to the North Sea Plan. In 2002, a total of 154 million were used. kr to the measure amended tillage. Of this, 62 million went. kr to the counties Akershus and Østfold, i.e. 40 pst. Funds for 2003 will be included in the year’s agricultural negotiations. I have, as the representative May Hansen has registered, engaged in the Hobøl-Vansjövassträg through the Morsa project. There has been a great deal of activity in recent years to reduce the loss of nutrients flowing into Lake Van. It has produced good results. It is estimated that the agricultural measures implemented in 2001 have reduced the phosphorus supply to Lake Water from 11.1 tonnes to 7.6 tonnes per year. years. These measures were continued in 2002. In 2002, the Morsa project received an exceptional grant for specific actions in the cultural landscape of 3 million. kr. The grant shall include, inter alia: results in a number of cleaning ponds and vegetation zones that will contribute to less pollution. The Morsa project is important for testing both measures against pollution, organisational forms and environmental planning on farms. Experience from this will enable me to make available to other areas as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e605	I would like to thank you for your answer. A year ago, exactly, the Minister of Agriculture replied to me that he would ‘follow closely whether we have sufficient legal and other instruments in place to improve the environment’ in the watercourses of Eastfold. He further assured me that he would ‘continually follow these things and use new tools’ if this were to prove necessary. Does the Minister think that this cut in the budget takes care of his insurance a year ago? And what concrete measures has he taken? The three million were also on the last year’s budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e612	The appropriations referred to here – these three million – are part of a large budget allocation negotiated during the agricultural agreement that takes place in May each year, and as I have indicated in my reply, this will be a subject for the agricultural negotiations of the year. Now there are many different good purposes to have money over the so-called STILK funds. There is also an item that has increased over time and that, in my opinion, should increase in the future. So there'll be good opportunities to do such things. Now it's probably not just the most important thing in the work that's done here. And that's right, I've followed up and been engaged in how this is followed up, partly because there's so much pilot work done in the Morsa project and the Vansjö area that the rest of the country can learn from, and partly because it's isolated because it's so important because of pollution of the water resources. We have recently had a comprehensive conference on this, including: point to new production areas and agricultural measures to reduce run-off.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e623	I will refer the Minister back from 2002. He points out, as now, that experience from the Morsa project and the Left’s focus on environmental issues were to ‘facilitate joint projects in even more watercourses’. He also says that when central authorities set up such projects, it will be up to local and regional authorities to follow up. Developments in Eastfold are a result of long-term government-driven agricultural policy, and that is what is now destroying our drinking water sources and recreational areas in Eastfold. And then it's the responsibility of the central authorities to sort out the consequences of centrally controlled policies. The Morsa project got $3 million. kr, says the Minister for Agriculture. The left promised 200 million prior to the previous deposit election. kr only to Lake Van in the election campaign in Østfold. What will the Minister of Agriculture do in Eastfold and Akershus to improve the situation we have in our watercourses?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e632	It's going great in the Morsa project. The representative should be satisfied with the progress. Phosphorus pollution is raging. One should actually be rich of what's happening. And then we don't have to rest on the laurels and say that much more can happen. So I'd like to be precise on one thing: all agriculture causes pollution. No matter how we run it and organize it, it will be run-off from the area where it operates agriculture. Even where it is not fertilized, it will be run-off. I think the representative and I have a common interest in still having an agriculture around the Morsa project, but we have to do what we can to reduce the run-off. These include: to find instruments in agriculture, and we do so maximum, with a lot of unilateral grain production, a change in the timing of ploughing and all of this. But if we're going to make new progress, we're going to have to use the land for other things, and that's what we've now started a new pressure on in the Morsa project, to try to get the farmers to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e649	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e660	I have a question for the Minister of Justice: ‘As a result of police reform 2000, the police will carry out extensive changes. The fact that some areas appear to be worse off than others seems to be so far a consequence of the reform. Not least, people in the Narvik area feel that the offer there has become worse. There are episodes where there is a long time to go without it being possible to get assistance, as well as that at night there may be situations where the police cannot move out. Are the Councils of State satisfied with the current situation in Narvik?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e669	As is well known, the first phase of police reform has been carried out in 2002. The switchover is extensive and is still in progress. Therefore, it cannot be expected that gains in the form of annual work for more operational service will be triggered already in the implementation process. This also applies to the conversion work being carried out in the Central Hålogaland Police District. The police officer in Middle Hålogaland reports that the Narvik Police Department is under ongoing evaluation and that the main objectives of the police reform are the basis for the police station’s planning of the operational service. The objective is that coordination of administrative and joint operational tasks should relieve police officers and contribute to more public service in line with the main content of the police reform. I am also aware that the Narvik police service was not optimal for a period before Christmas. According to the police chief, this was related, among other things, to: large-scale sick leave — partly long-term sick leave messages. Narvik Police Station, however, has the power to maintain continuous service throughout the day. The police chief says to the police department that this does not mean that nighttime can arise in situations where the police cannot move out. However, there have been cases where the patrol has been on duty when messages arrive, and the public has therefore had to wait a little longer than is desirable. This was also the case before the police reform. Like previous officials, if the situation or events so require, overtime is taken out. Finally, let me stress that it is the police chief's responsibility to provide a good police service throughout the police district. However, the reform requires transformations that, in a transitional phase, will be a challenge for both users and officials. The Ministry follows developments closely and has full confidence that the Police Directorate and the Police Commissioner will follow up, so that in future, Narvik will also ensure a good police service in line with the clear objectives of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e683	As a follow-up, I would like to address what is most important, namely the provision of services to those affected by the migration that the police have been in throughout the country – of course also in Narvik. What's important here is that it's an area of great distances. That means that if the crew that is on guard in Narvik Police Chamber is out and being sent to another area of the district, which, when I was in a meeting up there, at least 50 miles long, it can go long, long before the area can be served and you get hold of a new patrol that can replace it, and that can be denuding Narvik City. Narvik is, after all, a city with approx. 18 000 inhabitants and have deserved to have a service that is reasonably operational. I could imagine asking the Minister of Justice, since it is claimed here that it is not correct not to move out: does the Minister of Justice mean that you can carry out both service missions and police missions at any time in Narvik?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e690	It is absolutely impossible for me to go into such detailed questions. We have a law enforcement board in the police, so that they can handle it on their own. But what I am responsible for is that the main purpose of a reform is implemented. And the chief of police points out, is that some of the questions raised in Narvik were also problems that existed before the reform. What the police officer has stressed is that it has not been the case that you could not move out, but that it could take some time. When I have said that I am following this, it is because of course I am very aware that there are very large distances in this police district. I've visited it, like many other districts, and it's absolutely right that there are great distances. The impression I got after visiting the police district is that someone is just trying to take it into account. An attempt to do so can, in order to get operational police action out of the reform, simply by reducing administrative functions. Then there may also be changes where administrative functions are assigned to local police stations. But the whole purpose is that it should be so. With that background, I gave the answer I gave to the representative Ellingen. The most important thing is that the police can prioritize events, and as the police chief says in his reply to me through the Police Directorate, people can also be taken out overtime if the events warrant it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e697	What the Minister of Justice says, sounds positive. I think it does. At the same time, it is a fact that both the Minister of Justice and I have participated in a number of other debates, where it has been focused on the police’s ability to meet public expectations, among others. it has been shown that in the capital there are more than 40 000 crimes committed in the capital. This could not be in line with the wishes we have for an operational and functional police force. Finally, the Minister of Justice said in his first reply that it is the police chief's responsibility to provide a good police service throughout the district. That's correct, but the assumptions are determined in this house in relation to the budget limits given to each floor. My question will then be: Will the Minister of Justice take the initiative to work for the continued strengthening of the police through increased appropriations in the field for which he himself is responsible in the future budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e704	Budgetary treatments take place when they take place. I never tend to distribute money until I have money for distribution. With the budget we have, and which I would like to commend to the Progress Party for their subsidiary commitment to even though the Progress Party obviously wanted to be more involved in this area, which is a fair and honest matter, it is my duty to make sure that it becomes a value for the money that is in the system, and that the work is organised in such a way that it is appropriate in relation to the assumptions. With regard to the concrete relationship in Oslo, you can easily get a large number of instructions when you don't have any known perpetrator or proof. What the police can do with such issues is to work problem-oriented, i.e. recording where the events have taken place. This has begun, among other things: at the central police station in Oslo, and results have begun. So you record where part of the events that the representative took up is happening, and when you focus on it and work with the audience, for example. Businessmen, they also get better results from the police service.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e714	‘Globalised organised crime is increasing. Previously operated organised criminals in a demarcated geographical area with a type of crime as special. Now they operate in a much larger area within different types of crime. What will the Council of State do to ensure that organised criminals are followed up wherever they may be, and what can the Council of State do to strengthen international cooperation to detect drug and human trafficking and money laundering?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e721	There is every reason to be concerned about the development of organised crime, which today very often has differences across borders and is driven by professional actors with strong internal justice, where violence and serious threats are common practice. Nor is there any doubt that the potential for excessive profits is an important driver. The government has taken several measures to prevent and combat this form of crime. At national level, we have set up the Council to coordinate the fight against organised crime, where police and prosecution authorities analyse the situation together and prioritise the follow-up to the most serious cases. In addition, we have launched a separate project, the so-called CATCH project, in order to detect and combat the rearmen of the heaviest and most serious forms of organized crime in Norway. The project is closely linked to the Council for the Coordination of Organised Crime and is staffed by experienced and competent police staff. This initiative has already delivered good results, and several major cases have been carried out with the seizure and withdrawal of both yields and significant quantities of drugs and smuggling alcohol. The Government’s recent action plan against trafficking in women and children takes a number of steps to counteract international developments in cross-border prostitution, particularly affecting women and children from poor countries in Europe and Asia. Several measures address precisely the organised crime that is primarily responsible for this problem. The government has set up a specific project against money laundering and corruption under the direction of Eva Joly. The project includes, inter alia: Norway shall play an active and leading role internationally, in particular in the development of police cooperation and conventions in order to better combat international corruption, money laundering and organised crime. I also mention that the Ministry of Finance is now working on a proposal for changes to the Finance Act aimed at extending the obligation to notify suspicious financial transactions to Ecocrim in order to facilitate the execution of money laundering operations. International work includes: with the ratification of a comprehensive and important UN Convention aimed at combating organised crime. The government has now consulted some legislative proposals that will make it clear that participation in criminal organisations is a criminal offence in Norway. At the same time, the penal framework for all organised crime has been proposed to double. Compared to several criminal acts, this could mean the possibility of using new and effective police methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e738	I thank the Council of State for a full answer. I'm not going to deal with the devastation and degradation that both drugs and trafficking have on people. That's where I think the Council of State and I have the same vision. The goal must be that governments around the world make it so difficult to conduct these activities, both economically and legally, that organized criminal environments will refrain from doing so. The spectrum of instruments may be wide. I want to focus on the legal network. During the spring, Russia will adopt a new law to combat trafficking in human beings following, among other things, exercisability. by the Norwegian Government. This will provide authorities with strong instruments to combat trafficking. Thailand and Laos have successfully launched campaigns to reduce opium production. My point is that drug production and trafficking will move to neighbouring countries without adequate and necessary legislation and instruments. If the Council of State does not agree that in order to obtain the necessary clearance in the fight against drugs and the extent of trafficking in human beings, it is necessary that Norway, inter alia, should: Is the United Nations working to facilitate a sanctions policy towards those countries that do not take action against those activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e751	The question raised by the representative concerns the full scope of international cooperation. It's just a United Nations convention we're trying to take full advantage of through the consultation process I've been working on. As for what kind of foreign policy instruments you're going to go into, I'm not going to get into this. It must always be a continuous and concrete assessment of its appropriateness on a case-by-case basis. What is, however, a fact is that there is every reason to ensure that there is an international legal order that we can strengthen through Interpol cooperation, through bilateral police cooperation, through Norwegian police liaisons, such as, among other things. are stationed in some of the areas to which the representative referred, so that the international community can make it impossible to operate, inter alia. drug production and trafficking. And the representative is quite right that much of the international press, of which Norway has been a part, has led to the happy announcement that the Russian Duma is now going to impose a criminal code against slave trafficking, and make sure that this is investigated. So it's useful to work, but it has to be worked on several levels at the same time, as the representative suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e760	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Through Økokrim, Norway initially has a well-organised whitewashing unit. The contacts between Ecocrime and banks, financial institutions, Customs and, where appropriate, tipphones are good tools. The number of cases has increased by 50 pst. in the last five years. However, Økokrim is working on a passive role, i.e. handling received messages but not actively targeting potential organised criminal environments. The United Nations experience shows that the funds from drug trafficking are being laundered through a number of transnational transactions. The scope of whitewashing is larger than the oil and weapon industry and is 5 pst. of the total economy of the world. Transactions take place in seconds, while authorities’ ability to get an overview of transactions may take months and years, depending on police investigation methods and case-law in different countries. If we want money laundering, experience from the United Nations shows that the volume of drug sales and trafficking is falling sharply. The important thing is to have international locomotives to incorporate as many countries as possible into the fight against money laundering. What can the Council of State do to strengthen the International Law to prevent money laundering?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e771	The project that I presented in my main response, namely the anti-corruption and anti-whitewashing project, led by Eva Joly, is just an initiative to ensure that we are both good at home and can make the best possible international contribution. The aim is precisely to use the competence that we have in our country, but also in other countries, and that Eva Joly in particular has taken with him from his work. We need to ensure that we contribute to the development of law and agreement both here in Norway and beyond, as the representative has mentioned, and then that we have practical and good police cooperation. The great advantage of having a previous judge directing this work is that the judge knows very well when the cases are lost. Then when you put the judge on the other side, it gives a good insight that the cases might be won in the next round, so that the police get a practical insight, which is essential. Here I would add that we in Europe, for example. benefit from the Schengen cooperation, and we benefit from the cooperation I hope to have with the prosecution authority, so that Norway will have a third-country agreement with the so-called Eurojust. The whole point is just to do what the representative says. We need international pressure, and we can contribute through our own national project.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e781	This question, from the representative Ola D. Gløtvold to the Minister of Justice, has been transferred to the Minister of Transport who is directing the person. The question will be answered, however, that the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, on behalf of the Minister of Transport, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e784	I have the following questions which I wanted to ask the Minister of Justice, but which have been transferred to the Minister of Transport and which are now to be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘On several occasions, drivers who have driven in a drug-induced condition are exposed to searchlights, including those who are being treated with methadone. What will the Council of State do with this relationship?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e793	Many suggest that there has been a significant increase in the number of drivers affected by drugs other than alcohol in recent years. The proportion of drivers taken under the influence of other drugs is now almost equal to the number of alcohol-induced drivers. However, the total number of drivers affected by drug use has not changed significantly. Noise-affected drivers are a serious road safety problem, whether caused by alcohol or by other intoxicating or stunning substances. Therefore, during the spring session, the Minister for Transport intends to present to the Stortinget measures that may limit the use of other drugs in traffic. Work against drug driving is an important part of the government’s road safety work. The National Road Safety Action Plan 2002–2011 aims to address the impact of driving among areas of activity. The Minister of Transport will pay particular attention to increasing resources for drug control in the coming years. The police, in cooperation with the Public Prosecutor’s Office, shall also develop and test new ‘narcometers’ for use in police traffic services. Norway has a per cent share of the EU average. statistics on accidents related to alcohol and drugs. Such statistics are important because they can provide increased knowledge of the relationship between drugs and road accidents, thus providing a better basis for assessing what action should be taken. The Minister for Transport, in cooperation with the relevant bodies, will therefore work to improve these statistics. In the group taken for driving under the influence of substances other than alcohol, many addicts are found. A large number of these are taken for drug-induced driving repeatedly. As far as this group of drivers is concerned, we are facing a general need for rehabilitation. Transport authorities therefore cooperate closely with social, health and justice authorities to reduce the problem of drug driving.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e808	I thank the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs for the answer, but I wanted more approach to the problem of drugs. We know that in 2002 nearly 2,000 drivers were taken with rohypnol in their blood. It's an increase of four times what was the number four years ago. We also know that other drugs, such as amphetamines and cannabis resin, are increasing very strongly. There is little comfort in the fact that the total number of drug-induced drivers has not increased particularly, when we know that it has been done so much to try to reduce driving in an alcohol-affected state, among others. with a significantly lower per mille limit. I would like to ask what concrete action is being taken in cooperation between health, social, justice and transport authorities in this area now. It's not enough, I think, to refer to the plan to come from the Ministry of Transport. This is a major problem, not least because methadone is used in the treatment of drug users and is a direct instrument used in public administration. I also think that the Rackthosciology Institute is interesting in this context. How is the payment scheme there for samples?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e819	I have to admit that I am not prepared to answer the last question, about the payment schemes for tests related to this. I would like to stress what has been said, that a plan of action during the spring session is to be presented to the Storting, precisely to limit the use of drugs in traffic. This is a job where you work closely with the social, health and judicial authorities to reduce the problem of drug driving. In this cooperation, it is essential to consider whether to continue to hold a certificate and to be allowed to drive for such a period in relation to those groups that are assisted by the use of other types of drugs in a rehabilitation process. I guess you'll come back to a number of of these measures in the plan that's coming. It is now the case that in 2002, the Rätthosikologisik Institute found about one out of two cases. 102 cases where there was a particular suspicion that methadone was involved in driving under influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e828	I thank you for your response. I think some of the things I specifically asked about are very relevant and interesting on the occasion of the case, and that is why I asked the Minister of Justice. This is the case with the use of the Rackthosciology Institute, among others. has been a case in this Chamber earlier in relation to who will pay for those tests, and the Centre Party committed budgetary resources two years ago in order to enable the police to use this institute for testing precisely in relation to these types of drugs and driving. The question remains: who pays, and what consequences does the payment scheme have? I also find it a little strange that the Minister of Justice does not come up with a reply to this question, when we know that the Ministry of Justice is going to attend a large conference that the Road Safety Committee in Eastfold has to attend, among other things. The Ministry of Justice shall explain what is being done politically in relation to the legislation and testing methods in relation to drug use in relation to driving. I think it's very important to get this in place quickly, because evolution is galloping in the relationship between abuse and tragic accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e839	There is no doubt that the government too believes this is important. This is also why the Minister for Transport is now warning that an action plan should be presented to the Stortinget. It has not been completed to make all the choices in relation to the most important and top priority measures, but it has to be taken into account that it comes to the Stortinget at some point. It is important to consider what kind of action is most effective and not to look at some aspects of the action unilaterally. Then I will make sure that the question that I cannot answer, which concerns the payment systems, is well answered by the representative in the form of a written answer from the relevant State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e846	Then we go to the questions 20 and 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e852	‘The management audit in the municipality of Bergen has revealed that the municipality has charged for high water and sewerage charges in the period 1991-2000. Including interest, the municipality owes the tax payers approx. 500 million. kr. The case reveals unclear legislation and lack of control in order to ensure that the taxpayers pay no more than what is provided for by law and regulation. What initiatives will the Council of State take to ensure clearer rules, better control, and, in particular, reimbursement to citizens if the municipality imposes an unlawfully high charge?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e859	I am aware that the legislation for the calculation of self-sufficiency in the water and sewerage sector has been unclear. The Ministry of Local Affairs has therefore recently issued new guidelines for the calculation of self-cost for municipal payment services. The guidelines have been developed in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment and State pollution control and are adapted to the water and sewerage sectors. Other guidelines on the calculation of the fee base have now been lost. Therefore, municipalities now have one set of guidelines to deal with, with clear indications of how to calculate self-cost. The county supervises the municipalities in the county. The County is therefore responsible for supervising the practice of the local authorities in the regulation on water and sewerage fees. This will mainly take the form of law enforcement of municipal decisions under the municipal law § 59. With the new guidelines, we will in the future reduce the cases referred to here by the representative Sortevik, and it will be easier for the county officials to intervene against municipalities that charge too high fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e866	I thank you for the answer, which gives the tax payers in Bergen little joy in connection with what has actually happened between 1991 and 2000. It is true, as the Council of State says, that the county is supervising both the municipal budgets and the municipal accounts. In my view, budgets should be subject to a pre-tax budget. In fact, in the municipal accounts, I assume that there are accounts also in the areas of water and sewerage taxes. Thus, the municipality’s own audit concludes, after several rounds of calculations supplemented by external consultants, that illegally high charges have been levied over a ten-year period. This is a matter of principle, and it is important to get clear signals from the country's municipal minister. How can it be possible to charge 350 million? NOK too much in water and sewerage taxes, if the county has carried out its inspection task? What confidence can taxpayers have in a self-cost-based system when costs are not controlled? Does not the Council of State take responsibility if the state control does not detect illegalities in the charging calculations?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e877	The representative actually received an answer to the question he asked, which initiatives the Council of State will take to ensure clearer rules and better control. So we've created a new set of rules that will make it easier to control for the statesmen. That means we're on our way to better regulation. I would also like to point out that when the administrative audit in the municipality of Bergen reveals that there is too much to charge, it is actually part of the control business. So we've decentralized more control down to the individual municipalities by having a management audit, by having to have a greater degree of municipal self-control by an independent control body to look at these issues. It actually means that there are some of the control mechanisms that have revealed that the municipality of Bergen has paid too much in relation to the calculations that are now in place. When it comes to the case in Bergen and the question of paying back again, I do not want to comment on it now, because we are in a situation where we may have to go quite thoroughly through the questions from the municipality of Bergen in order to provide a clear and accurate answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e886	Does the Council of State consider that the claim of limitation can be used to stop the reimbursement of an unlawfully levied charge? Does the Council of State believe that a weak and poor local economy can be used as an argument that a municipality does not refund an unlawfully levied charge? And does the Council of State believe that the State, as a superior authority, shall be without financial responsibility for the reimbursement of an unlawfully levied charge when the State’s own supervisory body has not revealed or stopped such illegal charging?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e891	Poor local economy is not a basis for charging higher taxes than self-cost – nor for ensuring compliance with the legislation, through some form of repayment or through lower future charges. Thus, even if the local economy is poor, the population will not have to pay any more for this sector. The issue of limitation is a legal one. We're going to have to go through that if the municipality of Bergen presents it to us. I don't want to answer right above the table in this quiz about the legal implications, it's a harder question than that. When it comes to whether or not the State has a responsibility when the county officials have not followed up the inspection, it is a question that needs to be considered at the time you get it, you have to look at what is the basis and how this control has been done. I don't want to answer that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e904	I have the following questions for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘A possible association of the two Agder counties has been in place for many years. A little rough can be said that West-Agder is in favour, while East-Agder is against, although some municipalities in East-Agder prefer to see the county border removed. Can the Council of State guarantee that any future association must be based on full volunteering from both counties?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e913	Yes. – Maybe I could just say it like that. Thus, any future association must be based on voluntary action by both states. That's the Government's position on this question. The counties have to assess, on an independent basis and on the basis of the tasks they will perform, whether the breakdown of the day is appropriate or not. In the case of a possible merger process, it is important to identify the objectives of a county association, which actors will be affected, how to ensure the municipal anchoring of the process, the organisation of work and schedule, etc. I have recommended the county councils to do such a screening, which could help clarify the assumptions and premises of any regional decision to start work with a view to a voluntary association of the Agder counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e922	I thank the Council of State for this crystal clear answer. I interpret it to that, of course, that this is a matter to be decided by and between the two states, and that it should be based on volunteering in both states. However, the situation in East Agder is that some of the 15 municipalities in the county have stated that they want to be transferred to West Agder. Section 6 of the Divisions Act states that the government can adjust the boundaries between the counties. Then I allow myself to ask: Can the government really decide a possible transition for municipalities in East Agder to the neighbouring West Agder – if such a transition is opposed in East Agder?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e929	The government can do that. That's the precedent. When the municipality of Beer had a referendum that gave the majority to move from Hordaland – I never quite knew why, but they wanted to do it – to Rogaland, the government said it was okay. It followed the population figures in the municipality of Ølen by adjusting the county boundaries. The size would not be in the government's decision at that time. So the precedent is that if a municipality wants to move and there is a majority for it in the municipality, and the government wants to grant such an application, the government should have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e938	I thank you once again for the Council's reply. In the light of what she has said, I conclude that East-Agder is on a safe footing – that it is possible to decide sovereignly with West-Agder. You'll see what the negotiating committee will do. In any case, I think this clarification from the Council of State here in the Grandningssalen was good enough in relation to my question. It was so clear that I do not need any further follow-up questions!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e947	We're going back to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e954	My question to the Minister of Health is as follows: «According to Evening Post 17 February d.o.b. reduces the number of patients on their lists. The reason for that is to wonder. Up to 70,000 patients change their regularity in the quarter. When patients are removed from the doctor’s list without being asked, this can have serious consequences, especially for chronic patients who have had their permanent doctor for many years. Will the Council of State change its practice and take patients on board by cutting the lists?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e963	The scheme is a reform of the rights of the population. The inhabitants also have the right to change their place of residence. When statistics tell us that up to 70,000 people switch doctors in a quarter, it shows that this right is being used. The reasons for their exchange are, among other things, moving to another municipality. The number of people who have had to change doctors because of a reduction in their list has varied between 4000 and 9,000 in the quarter in 2002. On a national basis, this is relatively few. However, I have a great deal of understanding that it is perceived as difficult for the affected person. In the introduction of the fixed medical device, there was uncertainty about the relationship between the set of tasks and the list size. Several doctors have seen that the task has become larger than expected. Some doctors have therefore asked for a reduction in the number of citizens on their list. There may be various reasons why a doctor wants to reduce his professional activity for a shorter or longer period. When a doctor wants to reduce his list, this is done by means of random extractions among those on his or her list. However, those registered as residents of the same household shall be kept together by such a list reduction. The random extraction solution was chosen in its time in particular to avoid a situation in which the prescribers themselves could ‘pick out’ which patients they would have on their list. Those who are informed that the decision-maker has reduced their list and that a party doctor needs to be changed will also be given an overview of the general practitioners who have vacant posts on their lists. They will thus have the opportunity to choose who they want as their new permanent staff within the possibilities of the municipality. In 2002, alternative ways of doing this were considered. At that time, it was decided to continue today's arrangement. However, I would like to re-examine the legislation together with the Norwegian Medical Association and representatives from the municipal sector. Patient organisations will be included on advice. Any changes will need to be implemented in regulations and contractual arrangements. This will be carried out in accordance with normal procedures for this purpose. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the legislation does not prevent a list from being reduced over time. Such an option can be used if desired and for the benefit of both patients, the local authority and the local authority. This means that the municipality and the doctor may agree to gradually reduce the list ceiling over a certain period of time, by natural non-response to a new agreed list ceiling.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e978	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am glad that he will go in and look at this problem. It's a problem for many patients suddenly to get a new regular. It is incomprehensible to patients and also to me – and I will not accept it either – that a computer should take this choice for people who need medical attention. For chronically ill people, this is particularly difficult. Patients tend to have their firmness for years, and families are suddenly assigned to different doctors. It's not hard to understand that this creates problems. Norwegian health laws have so far placed very great emphasis on the user perspective. But here you've done it completely. These health laws are partly presented by the current Minister of Health, and I thought that the Government was also a warm supporter of patients and users getting the most influence on their situation. Is the Minister of Health dependent on the patient rights that can be perceived in health laws?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e987	Let me first correct the impression that it's the computer that chooses for the patient. It's not. However, it is the computer that chooses which patients need to leave a medical list when the doctor will reduce the scope of the list. Then the patient should be able to choose between the doctors who have open lists. However, I would say, and repeat what I said in my main response, that I do not think this arrangement is satisfactory. That is exactly why I have initiated a new review of the scheme. We're going to have the first meeting with the National Agency in a fourteen-day period, and we're going to follow up on a process with the Medical Association and with the patient organisations. I am highly dependent not only on safeguarding patient rights, but in fact also on strengthening patient rights. The government will make a proposal for a strengthened patient rights law during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e996	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I don't think that's what the Minister of Health was doing right now. I can use myself as an example. I lost my firm doctor and got a new firmer in the form of a letter, without any choice at all. I could imagine asking the Minister of Health if he has any opinion about what is the reason why so many determinators now tickle their lists. Could it actually be due to the fact that the basic payment to the prescribers is so high that it is not of particular interest to the doctors to have a significant number of patients, which results in that the waiting time for the consultation of the prescribers will not be reduced? What's the actual reason? At first, it was important for the individual to get as many patients as possible on their list, but now it's turned around.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1005	There will of course be different reasons for this, depending on the doctor's situation. But I want to clearly distance myself from the fact that this is a major problem. So out of the 70,000 medics that happen in the quarter, there are between 4000 and 9,000 medics that happen for this reason. I think this may be related to the fact that the fixed medical system has to go into place, and the individual doctor has to get used to the amount of work on the list. You can't do that until you've had some experience with this. However, I think it is quite possible to find a more flexible solution to the particular problem raised by the representative Alvheim. So that's what I'm going to do. In this context, I would also like to review the standard letters sent by the Social Security Agency to patients in this case, in order to ensure that they receive full and good information.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1015	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The Norwegian regional health authorities must have spent around 100 million in total, according to the Evening Post. SEK on consultancy fees in 2002. According to the Norwegian Medical Association, this could be 100 million. Dr corresponds to 300 full-time nurses for one year. Does the Council of State think that this money is well spent?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1024	Firstly, it is in the business model that regional health enterprises have the freedom to choose good resource use instruments, including to relate to what they think is an appropriate use of purchased services. We who are in senior positions have a responsibility to ensure that this assumption is met. 2002 was a special year. It was the year of establishment of a completely new form of organisation, adopted by the Stortinget in June 2001. The establishment of the business organisation is a significant conversion, which occurred at a high rate and without any practical or technical problems arising to any extent. Regional health enterprises have a substantial share of the credit for this. In such a situation, I would be reluctant to criticise the implementation strategies that have been chosen, including how it has been found necessary or appropriate to use consulting services. For example, it took time to establish functions in the ordinary organisations, and in the meantime it was absolutely necessary to draw on contracted help. It thus becomes too easy to ‘cut out’ a single amount in the total problem solution and say that this money should have been used for more direct patient treatment. Just because 2002 was the year of establishment, where very much was to happen and had to be in place in a short time, I see that regional health businesses may have needed services and competences that they themselves did not have, in order to meet the major challenges that it was, after all, to take over responsibility for businesses that manage more than DKK 50 billion of our common resources. Such competence may in some cases require the use of consultants because one could not wait with the measures or activities in question until after a complete ordinary addition process. It may also be appropriate to use external consultants for the implementation of temporary projects and processes. This is particularly true in an establishment phase, which was the situation in the special year 2002. But when it's said, healthcare is about offering good services to patients. In addition to good services, there is also a point that society trusts that services are good and that they are created with a rational use of society's resources. This includes many elements, including the fact that the use of consultancy services is sober and sensible, and that there is an understanding that no means would be used that would give better effect if they had been used for more direct patient-oriented work – that is, the perspective of today’s questions. I will not contribute to creating a situation where the use of consulting services is generally stigmatised. In specific situations, there may be good reasons why this is included in individual actions in the response. However, I attach similar emphasis to the fact that there is ongoing attention to the fact that business funds are used in as much direct patient-oriented work as possible, and that businesses are able to gain confidence that the total resources are used in a sober and rational way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1035	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for the answer. A reorganization of health businesses would lead to better health services. I agree that a person has the freedom to do a lot in regional health businesses. But for me, 100 million kroner is still a lot of money, which could have been spent on health. Now, when we see how uneasy people are being cut off in the provision and termination of functions, and when you see that a person spends 100 million dollars on consultant fees, it becomes a little bit problematic with the trust that the council also says one must have in a health company. I'm not skeptical about the use of consultants, but I'm skeptical about the use of such a large amount. Because there were a lot of plans that were in the health regions even before a reorganized one, which one could have liked to spend the money on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1042	I believe the representative of Frøiland and I share the basic view that consulting services are not an evil in themselves. Consultancy services may be necessary, not least in exceptional situations, which in 2002 were largely due to the need to have all these new organisational structures in place. However, consulting services as part of an ongoing business should be quite critical. That's the basic idea I'm meeting regional health companies with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1047	I thank you for the answer, and I'm happy for it. Both the Council of State and I have a responsibility for the regional health companies being what we have thought, i.e. more and better health care for people. But then I expect the Council of State to follow the whole way, because this is how individuals around our country are very busy. The fact that it's a sober and sensible use of money makes people feel that they're being given more health for every penny. It has to be quite extraordinary, especially when you spend so much money on consultant fees, because it doesn't mean you have confidence that the money is spent on health. I'm glad that the Council of State, although he said very much in general about the freedom of leaders and appropriate use, is, I feel, skeptical about what we're talking about here. I'm glad, and I expect the Council of State to follow up this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1056	Since the representative of Frøiland now expressed his expectations to the Council of State, perhaps I can be so free to express an expectation back. It is absolutely right that the health reform should lead to better health care and greater accessibility to healthcare. A modest expectation on the part of the Minister of Health, in particular of the parties involved in this reform, could be that, in fact, regional health businesses could also be seen to have contributed to significantly shorter waiting lists and shorter waiting times in 2002. For me, it is more accessible in terms of health services and thus better health care for the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1067	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In its draft budget, the Bærum Councillor proposed to cancel the municipal grant to Gyssestad Gård. Gyssestad Gård is a 1st line service within the paediatric psychiatry. Operation is financed by a split layer between the State and the municipality where the State is the clearly largest contributor. Early assistance for children and young people is particularly important in the psychiatry plan this year. Will the Council of State take action in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1076	Gyssestad Gård is a purely municipal mental health service for children and young people. The municipality of Bærum has, among other things: funded provision through the state-designated funds allocated to municipalities through the Roadmap for Mental Health. I myself was present at the opening of the Gyssestad Farm in 1999 during my previous period as Minister of Health. I understand that Gyssestad is a positive and important psychosocial response for children and young people in Bærum. With regard to the earmarked funds of the municipalities above the Plan of Ascension, certain conditions are laid down for the use of the grant. One of the conditions is that there should be a focus on psychosocial services for children and young people. The size of the budget for 2001 has agreed to a minimum of 20 pst. the earmarked funds should be allocated to actions targeting that group. However, no strong governmental leadership is given on how municipalities should organise their services in concrete terms. It is the autonomous choice of the municipality of Bærum that they have wanted to give priority to a large part of the funds available to them through the Plan of Ascension, to an action such as Gyssestad Gård. Similarly, it is possible for Bærum to assess whether these means can be better used in another way for the same purpose. The assumption must be that children and young people are still given priority. We do not have reporting figures from municipalities for 2002 yet, but figures from 2001 show that Bærum has used 23 pst. of the earmarked means of action aimed at children and young people. It's positive, and it's actually more than the 20 pst. as requested by the Stortinget and the Ministry. Now I understand that the chairmanship of Bærum has been in favour of a more moderate solution than the one contained in the adviser's proposal, to which the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen refers. I see it as very important that the municipalities follow the assumption that children and young people should be given priority, and that at least 20 pst. of the earmarked funds should be used for psychosocial interventions for children and young people. I see it as essential that the municipalities use the earmarked funds for what they are meant to do, and that they are not used to replace municipal self-help that was already there. I will follow developments closely, including: through reporting by municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1085	I thank you for your answer. I understand, of course, that the municipalities have to choose for themselves. However, there seems to be no doubt whatsoever that Gyssestad Gård has distinguished himself with very good services. Over 700 children and young people and their families have received help every year. Special attention has been paid to psychological services for pregnant women, mothers, children and young people, eating disorders teams, care groups for children and young people and different groups for children with mental illness. It seems like a very targeted and good offer. Now it's been a while since 2001. We have passed 2002 and are in 2003. The psychiatric plan has escalated, so 2001 figures don't necessarily have to be right now. It is not certain that the municipality of Bærum has continued to use 20 pst. for children and young people. Does the Ministry have any control procedures on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1094	Municipalities are obliged to report on their use of the escrow funds. These reports are being reviewed by the Directorate for Social and Health. In a circular from the Department, we have given clear guidance on the use of this money, both in terms of the proportion of children and young people, and the general guidance that the means of escalation should be used for what they have been granted, not for other things, and that one should not be able to replace municipal self-employment with these means of escalation. I ask for understanding that I cannot go directly into a municipal decision-making process. The matter is on the way from the chairmanship of the local government in Bærum, so here the politicians in Bærum take their responsibility, and then we get to assess what comes out in the reporting that the municipality of Bærum is reporting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1103	I thank you for your answer. I understand, of course, that the Council of State answers as he does now. But I think it is right to stress that the Council of State now makes it clear that you want to go in and check what Bærum and all the other municipalities do. It's assumed to be 20 pst. of the resources of the escalation plan will go to the paediatric psychiatry and, of course, to be reported in 2003, and there will be monitoring. Of course, the size has to live with the fact that each municipality chooses what they want to bet on. But I am pleased that the Council of State stresses that this is being followed very closely by both the department and the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1110	I can only confirm that the reporting and control procedures I have described will also be followed up for 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1118	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Ålesund Hospital has offered 700 people to go to Omnia Trondheim Medical Centres to remove wisdom stones, due to long waiting lists in Ålesund. The reason the patients are sent to this clinic is that Health Mid-Norway has only entered into an agreement with this clinic and not others. In a look-up in Sunnmørsposten, 14 February, among other things, shows: Apollonia Tannklinik in Ålesund that they can offer this service far more reasonably than it costs to travel to Trondheim. What will the Council of State do in this matter?"
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1127	There is no contract or formalised cooperation between the dental clinic in question and Health Mid-Norway. The offer that Apollonia Tannklinik can make was otherwise unknown to Health Mid-Norway until the media launch barely two weeks ago. Health Mid-Norway has so far entered into a framework agreement with nine private commercial actors in the region related to medical treatment and imaging. Such agreements have been concluded following previous negotiations, mainly based on the fact that Health Mid-Norway has received an application from the relevant actors. Until now, Health-Midt-Norway has not received any such application from Apollonia Tannklinik in Ålesund. It is true that some 700 patients are waiting for dental surgery in Ålesund. These patients have waited a long time, and there is too long waiting at the hospital in Ålesund. Therefore, I have to say it is commendable that Health Mid-Norway has taken hold of this and followed up its responsibility precisely by ensuring that patients receive a professionally adequate offer. Health Mid-Norway wanted to make use of the agreements already in place. For dental surgery, only the offer in Trondheim was up to date. There was no contact, but say contract, between Health Mid-Norway and Apollonia. On the basis of the fact that the private offer in Ålesund has now become known, Health Mid-Norway has informed me that they will look into the possibilities to establish a cooperation with the private offer in Ålesund, with a view to obtaining a contract with the clinic in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1136	I thank the Council of State for the answer. At least a little further progress has already been made in this matter by looking at other players in this market. The Minister of Health said that this offer was unknown to the regional health business. Indeed, it must be one of the tasks of regional health enterprises to intervene on their own initiative in the range of offers available, precisely in order to limit public expenditure in this area. If this business model and the hospital structure we've been working on are to work, it's very important that we also have confidence in the population. Obviously, if you see that this continues, you may also lose confidence in the reform itself, because there is a widespread use of what I would call the mispriority of funds. What will the Minister of Health do further in this matter to ask the regional health business to intervene in other offers in the region? After all, this is not just Ålesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1145	In this specific case, I feel that the regional health company has now taken an initiative and will look into this, so here I feel no need to do anything other than what has come to light that the matter has been raised in the media and here in the Questionnaire. But I agree that regional health businesses must constantly be looking for ways to provide services as rationally, as economically as possible and as best as possible to meet the needs of patients. In this respect, I can mention that the Government intends to shift responsibility for the sick transport and the financing of it from the Social Security Agency to the regional health companies, precisely because they can then see all the costs of travel and treatment in the context. Thus, we will lay the basis for more treatment provision closer to the patient’s place of residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1157	I have noticed that one of the government parties' representatives in the Sunnmørspost yesterday talked about the same thing that the Minister of Health is doing here. The problem is that if you do it that way, it will most likely go beyond the free choice of hospitals, so that the individual patient's freedom of choice will be reduced. But there will be another matter on which we will have a debate later, because I expect that we will come back to this matter. The question I would like to follow up a little with the Minister of Health is, of course, the independent right of regional health companies and, in my opinion, the obligation to investigate in other kinds of cases whether there are other offers that can be made in the districts without necessarily having to centralise this, as this case has shown. It could be about smaller operations, it could be about dental treatment and some other things. In this respect, I would like to ask whether the Minister for Health in his letter of governance will consider imposing a greater burden on regional health businesses of self-initiation to investigate what services are available in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1164	It is not the case that a system in which health businesses are given responsibility for the transport of sick persons will go beyond the Free Hospital Committee. On the contrary, the free hospital choice will apply unabated, patients' rights will apply unabated. What is being changed is that undertakings are actually given the opportunity to see transport costs and handling costs in the context. It's a reform that I think patients will enjoy. We would also like to make proposals to the Storting to strengthen the free choice of hospitals and to extend the free choice of hospitals to individuals who have agreements with regional enterprises. I also agree that regional health companies have an autonomous obligation to ensure that the treatment services we have are as rational as possible. That obligation lies in the custody responsibility and does not need to be further clarified in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1174	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘The provision of birth control is very important in all parts of the country. It is now known that food departments are planned to be closed in relatively large parts of the coming summer. This occurs in parts of the country where the distances are large and where alternative offers for the birthers are geographically far away. Does the Council of State consider such temporary closures of food supply to be sound and in line with Storting’s objective of emergency medical preparedness?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1183	Let me first say that I understand the concern expressed by the representative Arnesen. There is hardly any area where the experience of proximity and accessibility is as central to quality as at birth. At the same time, we must not forget that quality is also about having an adequate professional level – knowing that the doctors and nurses who are on duty are capable of their profession. This also applies to births. When the same staff are going to have a vacation – as they are entitled to like all of us, and we can well say that they deserve it more than most – and this is going to happen in the summer months, there are some challenges. There are then three possible solutions. One solution is to implement cooperation between two departments that can cover each other. The second is to impose on those who are currently not on vacation, more frequent guards, with the loads involved, while the third solution is to hire temporary workers from outside. Especially the last solution we know is expensive, with a price tag per. Weeks of maybe NOK 40,000 or more per day. week. And it's not given that this is the best way to use the resources. When the local health services now assess how to operate properly during the summer months – as hospitals have had to do at any time – it is natural that the supply of food is also subject to assessments. In a situation where different considerations have to be balanced, including the consequences that finding qualified temporary workers is not as easy as before, I can't see that temporary closure needs to be the worst option. But – as I have already stressed – the experience of the population, not least the pregnant women, is crucial. Therefore, proper and good information must be provided in advance. This could be done, for example, by: be made by offering to all pregnant women detailed studies at the maternity ward in good time before the actual birth, if they so wish. The pregnant person and the dependants will be provided with all the information they need on the alternative offers, including the possibility to enter a hotel near the hospital before birth. The community health service in the area in question must also be provided with the necessary information to inform pregnant women in good time in advance of holiday closure and of the offers they may receive. All AMK centres and their ambulances, as well as taxis in the area in question, must also be well aware of where to drive birthers who need such transport during the period in question. Let me underline another point, the cooperation with the midwife service in the municipalities. This service is established to assist in transport as well. In particular, in cases where there are long distances and where the birth is already in progress at the time of transport, it may be appropriate for midwife to be present until the maternity ward. Even if you do not want to be born during transportation, and you do what you can to avoid it, I would nevertheless stress the importance of midwife or other competent staff also being used as a follow-up service in the transport of birth.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1194	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I register that the Council of State shows understanding, but also that he talks more about dollars than about security. My assessment is that once a food department and feeding room structure has been established around the country, this must be assessed as a minimum, i.e. an acceptable standard for the population. When this breaks up in parts of the year and gets worse, you have to understand that people get worried and ask if this is right. At least it is not in line with the objective of better availability of such offers. Will the Minister of Health intervene when such temporary and random cuts take place and the minimum offer is weakened? I wonder if it's kind of just heads that are counted and not kilometers?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1203	I would reject the fact that I was just talking about dollars and not about quality. Important parts of my answer were about how to ensure quality even in cases where you have to leave, because the staff have actually both earned a vacation and have the right to have it. This is nothing new, it is not something that has come about the hospital reform. This has actually been a challenge in hospital operations for all time. What is important, however, is that the solutions chosen are professionally sound. I would strongly stress that. It shall be dealt with in professional bodies, as well as in the competent bodies, when taking such decisions. We have supervisory authorities in the counties to ensure that the solutions chosen are actually sound. And if they're not, it's the more solar duty of county doctors to intervene and say from, and I assume that they'll do that if that's the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1210	I thank you again for the answer. I understand, of course, that people have to have holidays, but society can't stop for the holidays. I think it has to be possible to solve this. I am questioning the calculations that show the large savings when temporary cancellations of such offers and not taking in holidayvikers. If additional costs are incurred in the form of ambulances, other transport, hotels, long stays due to long distances, etc.? And of course, the pure human condition comes in as well. Or is it that it does not count when this state money comes from different budgets and is not evaluated in the context?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1217	As my response to the representative, Nesvik, I think it would be a great advantage to bring together responsibility for transport and treatment in the same budget. The Government will make proposals to that effect. But when that is said, I assume that those who bear the local responsibility here assess all aspects of the question, primarily professional hygiene, the consideration of the staff and, last but not least, the fact that the birthers will also have an offer that is satisfactory during the holiday months. But it's a balance. There is no one-sided emphasis on economics, but there is a need to find practical solutions to ensure that the holiday can be completed and that proper provision is made to the birthers during the relevant period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1226	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The rehabilitation of chronically ill people provides good results both for the individual and for the social economy. Many come to work instead of disability. There will be fewer deposits after rehabilitation. This applies not least to cardiac patients. Studies on the heart rehabilitation of the Fairing Clinic show that a total of 80 pst. of those of an occupational age come back to work. The lack of official authorisation and the financing of this offer may lead to the closure of this offer. Will the Council of State approve the offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1235	The feiring clinic is a special hospital for the investigation and treatment of heart disease. The clinic is owned by the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease and operates as a limited liability company, where the operating costs are mainly covered by public funds. The National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease established a heart rehabilitation department at the Fairing Clinic in 2001. An approval of the already established rehabilitation department as a separate hospital department has been applied for within the subject area specialised heart rehabilitation with 24 beds. Patients at the Rehabilitation Department at the Feiringklinikk come mainly from Health East, about 30 pst. come from other health regions. Health East states that they support the application for authorisation, but states that for budgetary reasons, they do not have the opportunity to enter into contracts for the purchase of services at this stage. On behalf of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry has carried out a professional review of the application from the Feiringklinik. The Directorate points out that the rehabilitation offer at the Feiringklinik has many similarities with the offer at training institutions. The Directorate considers that the offer of rehabilitation at the Feiringklinik should be seen in the context of the ongoing work on transferring the order and funding responsibilities of the training institutions to the regional health establishments, and that the authorisation should therefore be awaited. The Directorate also states that the rehabilitation facility at the Feiringklinik appears to provide positive health benefits and that it may be a good complement to the local rehabilitation facility. However, the Directorate has not found any reliable evidence of the treatment regimens leading to the greatest health benefit in the rehabilitation of cardiac patients. I see it as important that rehabilitation of heart patients is seen in the context of other health services in the region. For some patients, rehabilitation facilities in the municipality with guidance from specialist health services will be the right one. For other patients, an institution stay could be most appropriate. Regional health establishments shall conclude agreements with the training institutions during 2003. In this context, they will consider what tasks these institutions can cover. The application from the Feiringklinik will be examined on the basis, inter alia, of: the assessment by the Social and Health Directorate and the opinion of the Health East, to which I have referred. Furthermore, I would like to have to assess this application in relation to other applications and in relation to the fact that regional health establishments will conclude agreements with the training institutions during 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1248	I thank you for your answer. When I raised the question, it was basically based on two relationships. One is the importance of good rehabilitation for the quality of life of patients and the socio-economic importance of people coming to work. The second relationship is specifically addressed to the rehabilitation facility at the Celebrating Clinic. As the Minister for Health said, Health East has taken a positive view of this offer, but one obviously awaits a response from the Ministry in terms of approval. The question, given that this is an offer that obviously benefits a lot of patients, is then: How long will it take to get the answer, yes or no, on such an application? I think that is quite important also for this offer to get clarity on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1255	I am, like the representative Asmund Kristoffersen, keenly concerned that we are getting a better relationship between treatment and rehabilitation services in the overall chain of healthcare in the country. I am very aware that this is of great importance, primarily to the individual's experience of mastering his or her own life, but also to society and the social economy. Therefore, it is important to establish a good chain of rehabilitation services in the context of specialist healthcare. With regard to this specific application, I have explained where the matter is today. I can't deal with it here and now, but I promise that it will be treated in the department without undue delay. Something more specific about timing, I can't give here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1262	We're now dealing with a very general, but very important, question, that is, how to get more focus on rehabilitation in our healthcare system. And that's the question I'm asking now, but let me explain it briefly. Fresh statistics from the Social Security Act show that of those who have been sick for more than six months, only 20 pst are coming on average. back in their original job. The numbers I referred to from the Feiring Clinic, which, of course, concerns a special patient group, showed that most people come back to their original job. I think this underlines the importance of our efforts to get a good rehabilitation facility in Norway, and the question, as I said, is how to get a better focus on rehabilitation in our healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1269	It's a big but very important question. I believe that some of the focus in medicine, and therefore in welfare settings and healthcare, needs to be changed – away from the focus on diagnosis and over to the focus on mastering and functioning. It's nothing less than a paradigm shift that has to happen at that point, but I think we from political bodies can contribute to it through the arrangements we make. The contract of inclusive working life is an opportunity to try and get to it. The same is true of the new funding mechanism for training institutions. I've been to the Feiring Clinic and the Rehabilitation Department there, and some of what I noticed I do as they do, which I think is very important, it's that they have a service that's busy connecting the patient to the local environment, the workplace, the services in the municipality when you get home. The kind of brokerage, if you can call it that, I think it's very important to create a whole in the overall offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1279	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. ‘Norway has large gas resources that can be used for power generation, but the three gas power plant construction concessions have not been realised due to economic and political uncertainty. The uncertainty about future CO2 management requirements is a significant uncertainty factor. It is important to build gas power plants to improve the power balance. Will the State Council ensure that given gas power plant concessions can be transferred to new and better projects, even if no CO2 management is available on such projects?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1288	The government's position on gas power plants is clearly stated in the Sem Declaration. The decision of the Storting is taken on the basis of the proposed concession gas power stations. Furthermore, it is assumed that additional concession and emission permits will only be granted to gas power plants based on CO2 free technology until a tradable emission system is established in line with the Kyoto Protocol. Today there are three valid concessions for the construction of gas power plants for the supply of power to industry and general supply. None of these concessions are currently useful. A significant prerequisite for the profitable operation of such gas power plants is a price of gas that generates profitable output compared to the expected price developments in the power market. The three concessions under the Energy Act relate to specific gas power projects and cannot be transferred to other projects. Therefore, a new project requires a new concession through an ordinary concession treatment and related investigations. Similarly, a new project will also require a new emission permit under the pollution law. With regard to the long-term challenges related to the energy balance, the Government sees it as crucial that a policy is now put in place to improve the security of energy supply in the longer term. Such work is already under way and a notification is being prepared for the Storting to summarise the evaluations in this area. The strategy will assume that we need more power in the Nordic power market and that we need to become less dependent on hydropower. Gas power plants will also be part of the strategy as an important contribution, but the Government is working with a view to making a better environmental option available when such a gas power plant is to be built. In particular, the management of CO2 emissions is a challenge in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1299	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I find disappointing, but not very surprising. The Council of State claims that the Government is a member of gas power plants, but then with so-called CO2 management – despite the fact that there is currently no technology that makes this commercially viable. According to the expertise we have, it might take 10 to 15 years before this is in place. On 9 March 2000, the Storting decided that Norwegian gas plants should be subject to the same framework conditions as others in the EEA territory. Will the Council of State ensure that this decision is complied with? And will the Government ensure that any strange framework conditions resulting from this will not be introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1308	The government is dealing with the gas power plant problem on the basis of the framework conditions adopted by the Stortinget, on a proposal from the government of Stoltenberg. It is then that the three cooperating parties in the Sem-Declaration have said that those concessions will be passed on to the concessionaires without modification and based on the principles adopted by the Storting itself. So this government hasn't changed those framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1313	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. The winter’s power crisis has shown that the energy policy pursued by the Government and the majority of the population is totally flawed, and many are forced to go to the social office to pay the electricity bill. At the same time, we must import large quantities of highly polluting coal power and nuclear power. Power generation based on our gas resources, even without CO2 management, is a very environmentally friendly measure compared to this. Doesn't the Council of States see this obvious advantage? What will the Council of State do now to speed up this environmentally friendly gas power generation in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1322	I agree with the representative from Vaksdal that it is necessary to give more power to the power market so that we can also go through dry years, as we have had this winter. But then the main strategy for the Government is to invest in environmentally friendly alternatives, which are also in line with the climate commitments that Norway has taken on. This means that we will focus on alternative energy sources such as wind power and bioenergy, as well as looking at the bottlenecks in the Nordic electricity market. We want to make better use of existing hydropower plants, and we believe that significant amounts of energy can be made available through upgrading and modernisation, that power plants provide more power with more modern aggregates and turbines. Such a strategy will enable us to achieve a better balance in the power market in the shorter term than in the case of the construction of gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1330	I will ask this question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘We are constantly reminded by the media of the vulnerability of orphans. This is true in relation to both pedophiles and others who do not have the ability or the will to respect human dignity, the integrity of children and the boundaries. What are the ambitions of the Council of State to contribute to a safer upbringing for children who experience sexual abuse?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1339	Children and young people under 18 years of age may be sexually assaulted by family members, by trustees in the community and by strangers. Children and young people are sexually exploited in pornography and sex trafficking. In practice, the distinction between abuse and exploitation is partly liquid. There are strong economic interests behind trafficking in children and parts of child pornography, and the Government therefore presented this month an action plan against trafficking in women and children. Some of those who commit sexual abuse against children are pedophiles, and this is essential in terms of prevention, punishment and treatment. At the same time, we need to avoid being too preoccupied with pedophiles and money Greeks. Then we overlook that very many sexual abuses are actually committed by relatives and other trustees, that far from all sex trafficking is governed by hallucinators, and that a lot of child pornography is distributed without anyone making money on it. I want to focus my efforts both on the most comprehensive threats to children and on more specific problems that require new solutions. There is reason to believe that many sexual abuses against children are neither reported to the police nor to child protection. The reasons for this could be many. The government will continue its work, which has been going on for several years, in order to strengthen the work of various agencies in criminal matters. As part of the quality development, last December, the Minister of Education and Education published a guide to address suspicions of sexual abuse against children committed by employees of schools, kindergartens and child protection institutions. I believe that there is reason to see different forms of violence in the context both at regional and state level. Sexual abuse against children should be seen in the context of, inter alia: physical and mental child abuse. Measures for victims who are still children, and for adults who were abused when they were children, are different aspects of the same issue. An overall approach also involves expanding effective treatment provision for those who commit violence and abuse against children. Against this background, several state bodies are now working to draw up detailed plans for a national centre of expertise on violence and trauma. This year, the Social and Health Directorate will draw up similar proposals for cooperation models at regional level. Self-help organisations, such as incest support centres, have made and are doing a great deal of work, like some non-governmental organisations. I would also like to mention that this year the Swedish National Council for Norwegian Children’s and Youth Organisations receives support from the Department to teach leaders about sexual harassment and sexual abuse against children and young people. In St.meld. No 40 for 2001-2002 On child protection and youth protection, the Government points out that the challenges of child protection and other services in sexual offences have not been solved in any way. The Committee also expressed its view on this in the Innst. S. No 121 for 2002-2003 on the same notification and the Storting joined this assessment. In this context, a decision was taken asking the Government to make an inquiry into ‘the situation of sexually abused children and their families in Norway’. It is important to identify and gain more knowledge, but strengthening these actions is equally important. I want to do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1358	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that the child minister and the government are taking child abuse seriously and have it high on their agenda, I hope every day. It is necessary to have a great deal of commitment around these issues and to show will and action in order to combat these gross and vile abuses. And I'm satisfied that the government is doing just that. It is also important that we have the opportunity to take part in this cross-committees debate, because this affects more committees. I agree with the Council of State that it is important to ascertain and gain more knowledge. On the other hand, we know quite a lot already, enough to act, and that is well to the extent that the Government has done. That is why I am pleased that the Minister for the Child is so clearly stressing that it is important to strengthen the measures, i.e. to do both. But I would also like to ask the Council of State what other measures are being taken than those she has mentioned, which are in progress, and not least I would like to hear a little about what measures are being taken to combat child pornography across departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1371	We are doing this work well, from last fall, and then I am thinking not only of the sexual exploitation of children in our own country, but actually of the young women and children who are exposed to what we call trafficking, and I mentioned the action plan we have made. In addition, I am quite proud that we have introduced ethical guidelines for state employees against the purchase and acceptance of sexual services on duty. Several departments and professional environments, including: Kripos and the State Film Authority are working on the action plan for children, young people and the Internet. Among several objectives, this action plan shall contribute to the fight against the spread of child pornography. In cooperation with the travel industry, I plan new information measures against so-called child sex tourism. However, we are still facing major challenges both in terms of the tasks of the police and emergency services — and this is not to be underestimated. Thus, during 2003, the departments concerned will prepare a new plan for the sexual exploitation of children. When it comes to child pornography, I also refer to answers given by the Minister of Justice of the United Kingdom on a few previous occasions. This is just some of what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1384	As the Council of State underlines, as politicians, we have a responsibility to prevent child abuse – both government politicians, policymakers and local politicians – and we have a responsibility to provide the best possible assistance to children and families affected. But the professional community also has a great responsibility to follow up the policy that is put in place centrally, and the laws and regulations that the Stortinget adopts. Not least, we all have a responsibility to show that we care about and that we care about, and that we have a zero tolerance for such abuses against children. We have to take a clear distance from what's happening, and from those who think childhood can be sexualized. I want to commend the Minister of the Child for the commitment she has had to it over the last few days. We must combat child abuse and the spread of child pornography by all available means. We will deal with the growth message later in ours, and also the Children's Convention, and I am pleased that the Council of State has now announced that the Government will come up with an action plan. I think these things together could be a good grip.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1391	The representative here, Sjøli, notes, especially the first, prevention, is incredibly important. I have had some meetings with, among others. Our incest centers, and what they point to as perhaps one of the most important things in the future, are that everyone prioritises issues where there is actually incest, and that these issues are reported. They're still saying that there's a lot of trouble getting the auxiliaries and others to kind of see these kids, and that's very important. In the case of community situations, we also see that some children are exposed to problems related to association. We'll get back to this in the family message. So maybe another reference to just how important the intervention apparatus and competences are in the area of prevention. Here, the Social and Health Directorate is working with the BFD – they have now taken over that continuation. What happens there is the creation of a training plan for use within the different municipalities in case of suspicion of sexual abuse of children. I think this is a very important work, and absolutely necessary to get a good systematics and preparedness and knowledge out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1400	So we go to question No. 1st@item: inlistbox This question, from the representative Signe Øye to the Minister for Finance, has been transferred to the Minister for Social Affairs who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1407	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: «Norwegian pensioners residing in Sweden are drawn every month 3 pst. of their gross joy in addition to the tax they pay to Sweden. However, if they request medical treatment in Norway, they must pay for it. Under the EEA Agreement, taxes are payable to the country in which you live. What is the reason why Norwegian pensioners living in Sweden in particular have to pay such an extra tax?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1416	The question has been sent to me for an answer that corrects the question. Norway may only tax pensions paid to persons residing abroad in a few exceptional cases. Under the Nordic tax agreement, therefore, the right to tax Norwegian pension payments is granted to the country of residence, in this case Sweden. The EEA Agreement does not cover tax matters. The monthly draw of 3 pst. in the pension is a social security tax, not a tax. The principle of the EEA Agreement is that the country which is to pay for the health care of the pensioner has the exclusive right to charge social security contributions to cover those costs. Therefore, only Norway can charge social security contributions in cases where there are questions about this. Pensioners who receive medical treatment for which Norway has the financial responsibility must pay 3 pst. in social security contributions. This applies regardless of whether the pensioner is resident in Norway or in another EEA country. Persons living in Sweden or in another EEA country who receive their pension from Norway are entitled to health care under the law of their country of residence under the same conditions as their own nationals. However, the country providing the pension, in this case Norway, shall also cover the costs of healthcare. This applies even if the pensioner concerned is also entitled under the internal legislation of the country of residence to cover medical treatment costs on the basis of residence, as is the case in Sweden. He/she is also entitled to the necessary treatment during a temporary stay in Norway and shall pay only ordinary Norwegian excesses. The country of residence has reimbursement claims against the country of retirement but does not have the opportunity to claim social security contributions or similar from the pensioner. For practical reasons, the Nordic countries have agreed not to enforce the reimbursement requirements they have on each other, assuming that claims and counterclaims increase. This set-off is a purely administrative measure, which does not alter the obligation to pay healthcare under the EEA rules. The waiver of reimbursement is provided for in Article 23 of the Nordic Convention on Social Security. The European Court of Justice has held that the inter-country refusal of reimbursement of expenditure in kind on sickness benefits in kind, as has been done under Article 23 of the Nordic Convention, has no bearing on the levying of contributions by beneficiaries. Here I also refer to a judgment of 10 May 2001 in Case C-389/99 Sulo Rundgren. Norway thus has access to social security contributions in the pension paid by Norway itself, if the cost of health care is borne by an institution in that country. The question in question has also been addressed by the Civil Ombudsman, and I refer here to the Civil Ombudsman’s 1998 annual report.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1433	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is the case under the EEA Agreement that taxes are to be paid to the country in which you live. The Helsinki Agreement states that no-one should be subject to double taxation. The Council of State now says that the country of residence does not have the right to claim social security contributions. However, it is in Sweden that you do not have a special social security charge, but the tax you pay also includes the social security fee. Then it becomes like paying social security contributions to Sweden as well as to Norway. And no matter how we view it, it'll be seen as a double taxation. Now it is the case that Sweden and Norway have agreements that if you have health care costs in Sweden, this will not be required to be covered by Norway. This is a mutual agreement that has been agreed upon. Therefore, I must again ask the Council of State whether she believes this is reasonable. Had it not been reasonable for Norway and Sweden to have settled this matter, so that the double taxation they now have was removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1444	I agree that pensioners who are taxable in Sweden and those liable for social security contributions to Norway should not risk paying twice for the same healthcare services. However, it would not be right for Norway to waive the requirement for social security contributions from Norwegian pensioners resident in a country where the tax collected is also intended to cover healthcare. In reality, it is the country of residence that in this case has to cover its expenditure twice — once through the tax and once through the settlement from Norway. It is also quite right that health services in Sweden are financed from the tax and are embedded in the tax administration in such a way that it is not possible to identify the proportion of the individual’s tax contribution that goes for that purpose. In this situation, there is currently no alternative but to accept that pensioners can receive some form of double taxation in the area of healthcare. It can give rise to unreasonable results, which Norway has also addressed with the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union. However, as mentioned, the tax rules are not covered by the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1451	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is quite alarming that the legal department in the tax department in Sweden, which has of course also been involved in this matter, believes that the Nordics living in Sweden should go to work drastically against this double taxation. It actually states that if this is not resolved politically, the European Court of Justice should be the right address. I think that is a solution we should be able to avoid, because if it is the case that the tax rate in Sweden believes that this is double taxation, I do not understand that the Council of State can stand here and say that this is something we cannot do about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1460	It results from what has already been said and directly from the wording of Article 23(3). 2 in Regulation 1408/71, that Sweden does not have access to social security – and that is the social security tax we are talking about – by Norwegian pensioners who live in Sweden, unless they also receive a pension from Sweden. After we have been informed by the Swedish authorities, no personal social security fee is paid to Sweden for healthcare. The tax rate in Sweden may well react, but we are in Norway, and this has been mentioned. It could give you an unreasonable outcome. Norway has addressed this issue, among other things. with the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union. However, as mentioned, the tax rules are not covered by the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1467	Then we go to question No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1474	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘Dutch researchers are deeply concerned about the effects of drug use among young people. The Netherlands hospital reports a number of emergency situations in which young people have been overdosed with alcohol. Salstala, after the Norwegian Government released the Rausbrus from the store hall, has risen much faster than the trading community expected. What would the Government like to do?'
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1483	I can assure the representative Meltveit Kleppa that the government is actively working to ensure that the sale of new alcohol-impaired products in the grocery stores has as little negative consequences as possible. I have clearly communicated my expectations to importers, producers and sellers of such products, and I have also asked the municipalities to be aware of their specific control responsibilities. Among other things, I have had two meetings with representatives from the alcohol industry and sales outlets, and also sent letters to the country's rapporteurs reminding them of their control responsibilities. Both the State Institute for Drug Research and the Directorate for Social and Health have been given the task of monitoring developments closely. It is still too early to say what consequences the new situation will have. According to the analysis company ACNielsen, 845 000 litres of grape must were sold in January, which represents approximately. 7 pst. of the total sales in the shops. At the same time, figures from the Norwegian Brewery and Mineral Water Industries Association show that the sale of beer went down by 5.5 pst. in January compared to the corresponding month of 2002. This may indicate that, to date, there has been primarily a distortion from beer to the new low-alcohol products. Regardless of this, various media reviews have shown that minors have been bought alcohol in the shops. The daily food industry itself can and must address the practical problems of complying with the ban on sale to minors. This year, the Directorate will also give priority to monitoring wholesale groceries and the producers of the new low-alcohol products and, later this year, will launch a campaign focusing on the 18-year limit for the purchase of alcoholic products. I also have to remind you that this is not a new situation. The Youth Organisation Juvente has been conducting so-called beer buying operations for several decades. The municipalities receive 16 ear per cent. the litres of alcohol sold, and this fee may be used to finance the precise control of the holders of the authorization. With regard to information from the Netherlands, experts at the Institute for Public Health have assessed the impact of drug use on young people. The institute has reported back to me that the study indicates that the subjects concerned are about 1.5 hours after the intake of three so-called rusbrus, a blood alcohol concentration is approximately. 0.56 per mille, against approx. 0,41 per million if they drank the same amount of alcohol mixed in water. The study is concerned with a number of weaknesses. However, I will follow closely the further research in the Netherlands and assess whether Norwegian trade unions will also conduct studies in this area. From the Netherlands I am informed that it is currently not possible to link the emergency aid situations mentioned in the question with the introduction of new alcohol products, or to demonstrate that there has been an increase in these situations as a result of new alcohol products. It's too early to draw any bastant conclusions. However, there is every reason to be vigilant about this. It's supposed to be both me and the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1498	It is bad that the Stortinget before Christmas had to accept that an item that very few wanted out in the shops, now would be allowed because of an ESA judgment. It is extra bad because, at the conclusion of the EEA Agreement in 1992, the Labour Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party claimed that Norway should be able to pursue an independent alcohol policy. In many European countries, concern is reported among young people and drug users, lower levels of diversion and increased alcohol consumption. Switzerland is subject to a change in legislation, the Netherlands and France have introduced restrictions. For the Norwegian Government, it seemed that it was superior that we should first meet with ESA, and we should follow developments later and, if necessary, come up with measures. I am very sorry that there was no more willingness in the government to take care of the youth, so that one could have ordered this better. Is it following developments that the only government council will take action?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1512	I hear that the representative Meltveit Kleppa is concerned that we should not follow an ESA judgment. There are more than one government that has tried to avoid it. I expect that previous governments have also had to comply with the judgment. Another thing to say is that yes, we had another alternative. It was to take the beer on the wine monopoly together with the raspberry within the same alcoholic strength. At the same time, it is important to have a realistic alcohol policy and an alcohol policy for which it is possible to gain a say. In fact, I don't think it would have been possible in relation to the other option, that of non-discrimination by bringing everything into the Wine Monopoly. Then it is important to facilitate this non-discrimination in the retail trade, to comply with the alcohol law, to enforce the alcohol law, and to ensure that the instruments contained in the alcohol law are actually used. As it is today, not all the instruments are used, and I have just been concerned that, even in the event of an infringement of the alcohol law, especially in relation to the age limit, sales to children and young people under 18, are using the option of withdrawing the authorisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1519	The government seems to be on the verge of preparedness. It seemed to me that I was attentive to what was said in Stortinget when this matter was handled. At that time, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre requested trade-restrictive measures. It even voted against the Christian People's Party, because they said the Government was working on trade-restrictive measures. Now the Social Minister had the opportunity to present such trade delimitation measures. I found it sad to register that what she is doing is to show the importers and the responsibility they have, and to show the municipalities and the responsibility they have. The Social Minister knows more than many of the tight local economy that is now. She could at least have sucked for, if she wanted it, some more controls, and seven for it to follow funds with. It would be taking more responsibility than sending youth organisations to control.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1524	Now the State Council is not sending the youth organisations to control. They're doing very well on their own. If the representative believes that the municipalities do not have the means to carry out this check, it is actually wrong. Per. The volume of alcohol sold follows 16 cents back to the municipalities. This is supposed to go to the control of just selling alcohol. Unfortunately, the more alcohol that is sold, the more it goes into the municipal fund than having funds for just control measures. So talking about tight local economy here falls on its own unfairness.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1532	I have the following questions for our Minister of Social Affairs: ‘On 6 February d.o.b. the governing body of the Vinmonopole has given priority to the districts in the allocation of 10 new sales. The whey in Østfold is left out, even though the municipality has searched several times. In Eastfold, new sales will contribute to the reduction of borderline leakage, to the ring-fencement of the commercial industry and to the improvement of the availability of the lawful circulation of alcoholic goods. Will the Council of State take an initiative to establish a pole sale in the Wysen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1541	The question of the establishment of pole sales in Østfold, and more specifically at Mysen in Eidsberg, has been raised before, both by the representative Hedstrøm and by the former staging representative Stang. Today, Østfold has seven shops. The county is Norway's third smallest, and only in Oslo and Akershus is the shorter distance between the Vinmonopolet stores. Dry 8 pst. lives more than 15 km from the nearest store. The decision not to establish several shops in Eastfold in 2003 is linked to the fact that the Vinmonopolet first wants to assess the impact of the last established store, in Rakkestad. Neither my predecessors nor I have found the basis for taking the initiative to establish pole sales in special municipalities, because this question is and must be a matter between the Vinmonopolet and the individual municipality. I would also like to stress that the Vinmonopolet has a lot of consideration in deciding where to set up new shops. However, I know that Eidsberg has been assessed in connection with the entry into force of 2003 and will be in the position that the Vinmonopolet found that a possible establishment on the Mysen in Eidsberg should only be assessed later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1550	I thank the Council of State for the answer and hear the arguments. It's obvious that Eastfold is in a special position because of its location. 75-80 pst. of all road traffic to Norway passes through Eastfold. We have the highest border trade leakage in the country. We have the highest amount of smuggling, although it's now reduced due to all of the methanol scandals, but it's probably temporary. It is tough competition from the system companies that is close to the Norwegian border. Therefore, there is a strong interest in selling in Whey to reduce the leakage, to reduce illicit trafficking and to have local ring-effects. Doesn't the Council of State think that there's a special situation, that there are good arguments for establishing a wine monopoly sale in the whey?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1557	Today, Østfold has seven shops. That's the third smallest state. The density of poles is higher only in Oslo and Akershus. The Vinmonopolet Steering Document on the location of new and ordinary shops in 2003 shows that no new establishment has been proposed in Østfold. The establishment of a store at Mysen in Eidsberg has also been specifically assessed, but it appears that a store at Mysen will take sale from other shops, especially from the one in Askim, possibly also from the newly opened one in Rakkestad. Due to border-trade pressures and new shops in the area, the sales are likely to be only 60,000 litres. Therefore, any establishment in Eidsberg should also be assessed later. Sales per person In 2002, the population in Eastfold was 4.6 litres below the national average, the lowest turnover for some counties. Reference is made to the fact that the sale is mainly due to border trade. Paradoxically, therefore, border trade in the area is a factor which has had a negative impact on Eidsberg's case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1566	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. I agree that the monopoly of wine must of course have an independent position, at least to a certain extent, when assessing the market for its products. But it has now been known in the past that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has had localisation plans and a certain strategy for setting up new pole sales. Now I don't know what the status of this is today, but if such plans are made, can the Council of State, which also comes from Eastfold and knows the conditions there well, then think again to consider the establishment of a sale on the Wyatt, in cooperation with the Board of Governors of the Vinmonopolet?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1575	I know the county, and I know how small it is. I also know how close it is to pole, and how short it is to Sweden. However, the starting point is that there must be a case between the Vinmonopolet and the individual municipality. As far as I remember, the 2003 allocation – subject to my right memory – is that there are six new poles and that there are four mini poles. The wine monopoly has expressed itself very clearly that per now, for 2003, the Wysen in Eidsberg has been evaluated. But that doesn't rule out getting back to it on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1585	I want to ask the Social Minister the following questions: ‘Elverum is not on the list of sales to be converted into self-service coils in 2003. The same goes for Trysil, Tynset, Kongswinger and Rudshøgda. The self-service coil is a great wish both from employees and not least from customers. Sweden has had such poles for many years, and some of the growing trade due to Norwegian customers who want to learn more about the products offered, as well as lower prices. Does the Council not see that this could make people feel healthier about alcohol?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1594	The wine monopoly is within a process of gradual conversion to self-service. Self-service is now selected at new start-ups, and the conversion takes place by giving priority to shops that still have to be cleaned up or moved. The self-service system has resulted in greater satisfaction among the customers and employees of the Vinmonopolet. The monopoly on wine had 177 shops on a national basis at the end of 2002. Of these, 77 were self-service shops. New establishments and conversions will increase the proportion of self-service shops to 113 in the current year. By the end of last year, Hedmark County had seven stores, located in Kongsvinger, Hamar, Elverum, Ringsacks – i.e. at Rudhögda – Trysil, Tynset and Åsnes, then at Flisa. The shops at Hamar and Flisa are self-serving. I have been informed by the Vinmonopolet that in addition, two new stores will be established in the county during the current year, namely at Stage and at Rena. Both of these will be self-defense. In addition, the Vinmonopole is considering moving the store on Kongswinger. Subject to the premises available, this shop will be converted into self-service during the current year. In Hedmark County, five out of nine stores – around 56 pst. – be self-employed by the end of the year. This is in line with the situation in the rest of the country. The shops in Elverum, Ringsakes, Tynset and Trysil are all relatively new shops, but also these will, as soon as the resources allow it, be converted into self-service.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1605	I thank the Council of State for the answer. When the wine monopoly in Elverum moved from one room to a more suitable one in 2001, it was thought to be self - serving. At that time, however, the Ministry of Social Affairs made the decision and the number of self-employed sales was held down for reasons of economic policy. Thus, the new pole at Elverum was set up according to the old model. Can the Council of State confirm that there are currently no such considerations as to whether a pole should be self-operated or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1612	Today, and I am then dealing with the current government and 2003 it is the Vinmonopolet that assesses the development of self-service shops. But it is also a clear strategy on the part of the Vinmonopolet that by moving, changing, building and re-establishment the aim is to have self-managed poles where it is practical and possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1617	I ask one more time: can the Council confirm that there is no need for a political stance to determine whether a pole should be self-serving or not? In addition, the council said in its main response that the stores in Elverum, Ringsacks, Tynset and Trysil will be rebuilt for self-service as soon as the resources allow. Can the Council of State be more precise and suggest a somewhat more precise time?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1624	It is still the case that it is the Vinmonopole that, based on an overall assessment and changes in relation to shops, assesses the increase in self-serviced poles. In addition, it is also the cost of reconstructing — and it must also be included in the assessment — in relation to the total economy of the wine monopoly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1632	‘Russia is in a strong economic growth period. It is hoped that Norwegian businesses will be more able to establish businesses in Russia. It is important that Norwegian Governing Authorities actively support a Norwegian strategy for industrial development against Russia, including Russia. The NHO suggests. Will the Council of State pursue an offensive policy to strengthen Norwegian industry’s commitment to Russia?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1639	First of all, I would like to stress that the Government is already pursuing an active policy of promoting the industrial interests of Norwegian companies towards Russia. There are a number of different forums where issues related to Norwegian-Russian business cooperation are addressed. Among other things, we have the Norwegian-Russian Commission for Economic, Industrial and Technical Scientific Cooperation. There I meet myself with a Russian minister, and we address – and often get solved – issues and problems that exist in the business cooperation between our two countries, including single cases where Norwegian companies are involved. The Commission has two working groups — the North Trade Working Group and the Technical and Scientific Cooperation Working Group. These meet approximately every two and a half years at the level of office. For a limited period of one year, there was also a Norwegian-Russian Shipbuilding Working Group in Norway and Russia. Activities of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade are increasing. With effect from 2 October 2003, the NHD shall take over the chair of the Economic Working Party under the Barents Council. The Ministry is now considering the priorities that Norway should have under this Presidency. Recordings will come from the Nordic Foreign Ministers when they meet in the Barents Council in Västerbotten in Sweden on 3 October this year. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has now drafted the text of a brochure to provide Norwegian companies with information on what is available from Norwegian State instruments, as well as the international institutions that can provide assistance and funding for investment in Russia. The brochure will be printed in the next month. With regard to NHO’s input into the document ‘Norway and Russia — The Need for a Business Strategy’, the NHD has welcomed the initiative and is therefore developing such a strategy for Norwegian bet against Russia. Of course, the design takes some time, but the plan is that the department should promote this strategy before the summer. The NHO proposes in its input, among others: to establish a ‘Task Force’ for Business Cooperation between Norway and Russia. The NHD will shortly convene a meeting between the departments involved and the business community to discuss this matter. The NHD will also call for a further meeting to decide on the establishment of a Norwegian-Russian Business Forum, a forum proposed in the Joint Declaration of 12 November 2002 by Prime Minister Bondevik and Russia’s President Vladimir Putin. On May 13th this year, a Norwegian-Russian business seminar will be held in the Churchnes, where I will attend. This is likely to involve industry that can be used in the design of the Norwegian-Russian cooperation strategy. These measures show that Norwegian-Russian business cooperation is properly prioritised in the ministry. I hope that Norwegian business will follow up on this in the time to come, and, as I said, we invite to a dialogue with both NHO, single companies and other business partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1658	I thank the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade for a brilliant and offensive response. The situation of our greatest neighbour is under strong positive development, both in terms of economics and otherwise in terms of democratic values, on which we attach great importance as a commitment to greater coherence and exchange between Norway and Russia. That's why I feel that the situation now actually requires such a strategy as the ministry presents. I would just like to stress that we have an oil and gas community both in the Barents Sea and in other areas in Russia that allows for large Norwegian contracts and great Norwegian involvement – but it is expertise that we have gained in our maritime area. I would also like to stress that there is a certain need for financial support, i.e. some tools, in order to achieve greater interaction between Russia and Norway. I would also like to stress that there are different sizes of the businesses that are now looking for Russia and will establish themselves there. So one has both large-scale and small-scale activities that are on the way to Russia, and it's important that the department has the tools for both of these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1669	I very much agree with that representative on business, business and start-up issues in Russia, and perhaps in particular North-West Russia, to which we have also had a certain commitment for foreign policy reasons. There is no doubt that part of the strategy of Norwegian foreign policy throughout the 1990s has also been the building of democracy through business cooperation. It's obviously an important piece of this. But there is a large additional dimension to the fact that this is a large market, a developing market, a market that becomes more competent in the sense that it becomes more predictable, and more and more Norwegian companies see their interest in this. I experienced that last week when I was in the Baltic region, where Norwegian establishments are also used as a bridgehead towards this absolutely interesting market. That is why I want to maintain the instruments aimed at Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1674	I thank you for the answer, and I have a few specific questions that I would like to use the last time to ask. Is the Council of State prepared to give us, from Norway's side, a certain readiness for language training in Russian to develop this contact and to provide training for Russian personnel through Norwegian courses, school provision, universities, with partial access to scholarships, so that Russians can participate in the construction of Norwegian enterprises in Russia? I would also like to ask questions about SND's apparatus in connection with the instrument notification to be submitted by the Council of State in a few weeks' time will be considered in terms of insight into such a market. Finally, I just want to add that I am positively surprised that the Norwegian ambassador in Moscow received the price to be the best one to facilitate Norwegian business abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1685	There is no doubt that Norway’s ambassador in Moscow has been a very important piece in relation to what is built up also for Norwegian business, and Norwegian business has enjoyed both the ambassador and the embassy in Moscow. In this way, the price he received was most deserved. Of course, in terms of the instrument message and the question related to it, we will also address these issues in it, and the international perspective will be given considerable attention in it. There is no doubt that we have more conflicting interests in terms of contributing to positive developments in Russia. When it comes to what the representative specifically asks about scholarships, university studies and language training, I have to be allowed to pass it on to the Minister of Education and Research. But I fully see the possibility of having arrangements within my area, for example. with the exchange of younger people in relation to business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1704	This question has been withdrawn. Questions 20 and 21 have been answered in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1720	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1726	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Food and Trade on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1729	‘Terje Skjeggedal, researcher at North-Tronde Layer Research, wrote in the United Nations on 14 May 2002: ‘Observations of nature will always be marked by the values and interests of the observer.’ Furthermore, there is a great deal of attention given to ‘the non-interventional areas’, but that ‘there is very little evidence and assessments of how the non-interventional areas actually function as a natural management tool’. Does the State Council carry out any independent evaluations of the impact of current protection work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1736	I have the pleasure, on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, to give the following reply to the representative: An overview of non-interventional areas has been drawn up in Norway, in an abbreviated version also known as the INON project. The Directorate for Nature Management has produced an overview with a background away from major technical interventions. The main objective of this mapping project is to strengthen the decision-making base of municipalities, counties and countries at land and resource disposal and in the treatment of individual cases. The survey shows that since 1900 non-interventional areas in Norway have been reduced from 50 pst. For approx. 12 pst. in 1998. For South Norway it's just about. 5 pst. again. Protection under the Nature Conservation Act is one of many instruments in securing the values of Norwegian nature for the future. The aim is to ensure a representative sample of the different habitat types. The implementation of the protection of Forolhogna, the extension of the Dovrefjell-Sunndalsbergella and Rondane National Parks, and in this context the protection of, inter alia: The areas of wilderness and mountain reefs are good examples of this. Experience has shown that there is a great deal of convergence between the areas protected or assessed for protection and the registrations of non-interventional areas. However, many different scientific studies are needed on plant and animal life, geological occurrences, landscape studies, etc. as the basis for the selection of each site. All this information, together with information on other interests related to the site, provides us with the basis for making a decision on and how to secure a natural area. The use of information on non-interventional areas will continue to be an important tool for nature management. Like all other tools, this is also under ongoing assessment for improvements. By the end of the current year, the Directorate for Nature Management shall have revised the natural base for non-interventional natural areas. No overall overview has been compiled showing the different effects of the protection plan work. The various consequences of protection are identified in the context of thorough participation processes in the individual case of protection. We know, however, that protection plan work ensures important parts of Norwegian nature for posterity, which gives us natural experiences. Not least, these areas guarantee future generations options. Finally, I would like to point out that the protection of nature can also contribute to the sustainable creation of value in our districts. One scheme for this purpose shall be presented by the Government to the Stortinget later this year. The work on protection plans has many positive consequences for the individual citizen and has a significant impact on Norway as a credible environmental nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1755	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As I understood, it has not been done so much independent evaluation of the impact of today's protection work. I think that is quite important, given that a violent protection process has been initiated by the Government both on land and on water. Several people have been involved in this issue, including: Jon Teigland, a Western researcher. He said in "Firda" on 24 April 2002: "I have the impression that in many cases the administration is more concerned with protection than with administration". Then I would like to ask the Council of State: will the Government carry out any evaluation of the usefulness of previous protection decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1769	First of all, I fully agree with the questioner in the description that there have been significant protection interventions both to land and to water. I guess we might also agree that it's been necessary, and it's still necessary. This will allow discussion of its scope and, in particular, the possibilities of carrying on business, sustainable business, in the areas protected. With regard to whether the Government has plans in relation to evaluation, I have to say here: I cannot answer that, in the sense that this is the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment. Specific additional questions I must be allowed to pass on, and of course they can be answered in retrospect relatively concretely. Either it's like that, or it's not like that. Unfortunately, I can't answer this on a standing footing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1776	I thank you for the answer and understand, of course, that it may be difficult to answer in relation to the subject area of another Council of State. However, as the Minister of Industry knows, there is often a conflict between local democracy and local decisions and industrial interests in the field of industrial activities in protected areas. It's value creation and important jobs that we're talking about here. One of the examples is temporary protection zones for salmonids, which have been in existence for 13 years, where there has been no research into whether they have produced results or not. Now this was properly closed yesterday, but replaced by a new protection, which has a new name, so the consequences are exactly the same. Will the Government ensure that a critical review of the protection issue is carried out to demonstrate whether the protection has had a specific impact on the protection decision itself, such as for national salmon fjords adopted yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1783	What I can at least answer is that there is an inherent conflict between protection, local democracy and the pursuit of business in these areas. I know that very well after many years in local politics, including as rapporteur, and as a businessman. I believe that no matter what trust you have, you have to admit that there is a need for local democracy, for business development in the districts and for protection. It's about finding the balance sheet. At my discretion, the government fully acknowledges all three of these conditions, and I feel that the balance that we have found also with regard to salmon fjords and the protection of areas that the wild species must and must have, at the same time makes it viable to breed salmon. In my opinion, it would be irresponsible not to have the port of introduction to evaluate, and I would say that evaluation is important, not least in the context of the seizure of large areas where industrial activities are to be banned in the districts. So I'll definitely think that it's right to do such an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1788	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1799	There is no record. The President must ask the representative of Mr Korsberg if he wishes to speak before the sitting is cancelled, since he is the only representative in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-26.ana.ud2421e1804	Mr Korsberg does not want that!
