ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e39	The representative of Gunnar Halvorsen, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The representative, Sigbjørn Molvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e47	On behalf of the representatives of Kristin Halvorsen, Karin Andersen, Olav Gunnar Ballo and myself, I would like to make proposals to allow municipalities to enter into contracts with non-governmental organisations, such as the Red Cross and the Salvation Army, on health and social services without a call for tenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e52	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e72	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e81	The setting we are examining today concerns two Document No. Eight proposals, one proposed by a number of representatives of the Socialist Left to strengthen the security of the West and another proposed by a number of representatives of the Progressive Party to carry out an extended analysis of the need for oil protection for the shipping link linked to the oil refinery at Mongstad and the area between Bergen Hafen and Mongstad. Both of these proposals are based on a decision to close down the state oil warehousing plant in Fedje, Hordaland, and move the depot to Florø. But the matter also contains a few other elements: moving the oil warehousing pot from Bergen to Ågotnes, which also means strengthening this depot, which is also based on the locations in Bergen, and otherwise maintaining the depot on Fedje as a middle depot. Once the Ministry of Fisheries has confirmed the last of its letters in September, the majority of the Committee has found it appropriate to say that oil protection in Northern Hordland is satisfactory and that the changes adopted by the Ministry of Fisheries will strengthen the preparedness of the region. At this stage, therefore, there appears not to be a need for further analysis of oil protection in this area. However, the majority use future regular analyses and provide a basis for further assessment of oil protection. In the light of this, the Committee has gathered to ask for a comprehensive communication on oil protection preparedness in 2004 and to add the respective proposals to the Protocol. The minority, in the right form of a note, as they might explain to seamen, has chosen to want to slow down the implementation of this, but at least it is absolutely in line with the establishment in Florø. In the form of an attached letter from the Ministry, the setting clearly states that there are professional assessments and an analysis from the SFT on the basis of which the transfer took place. This analysis covers both equipment and personnel needs for coastal oil protection. Furthermore, private, municipal and state resources and the division of roles between the respective actors in current situations, including the legal and economic implications of such activity, have been explained. There is good reason to claim that the Ministry of Fisheries has done a thorough preparatory work. The setting is voluminous in the form of valuable annexes from the Ministry, and so we should be able to look forward to a pleasant debate on the part of the Ministry of Fisheries. Finally, let me reflect for a few seconds on the fact that it is the action area that is in focus when it comes to the main movement here, that the reaction time towards the Stadhavet and the reaction time in the fairways around Bergen–Ågotnes is the motivation to make these movements. The majority have joined the decisions taken, so it is only necessary to recommend a unanimous vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e102	Protective environmental oil protection is necessary in the West as in the rest of the country. The Coastal Directorate has carried out an additional analysis for the dimensioning of oil protection in the area of Sture-Mongstad, a clearly high-risk area in the West. from environmental protection teams, inter alia: from the Norwegian Environmental Protection Association, from the municipalities concerned and from the municipality of Hordaland, it has been pointed out that the analysis carried out does not mitigate the high risk in the area and that the change envisaged does not strengthen the overall oil protection preparedness along the coast of Hordaland. The Party considers that there is a need to carry out a new and expanded analysis to ensure an environmentally satisfactory oil protection preparedness in the area, but not just for this area. Norway has, as is known, a long-distance high-traffic coast, with extensive cruise traffic, coastal cargo ships, and increased oil transport, especially from the north. From Russia and towards the United States there are also large gas transports. It is therefore important to draw up a communication on oil protection throughout the coast, and I am pleased that the Committee agrees on this. It is important that the changes in the oil protection structure are not implemented until the Ministry has submitted a communication on oil protection throughout the coast. However, we recommend that a new oil protectionpot be established in Florø to strengthen the overall preparedness of the area. But, as I said, we do not want to go ahead with this until a communication has been submitted, which the Committee fortunately agrees on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e111	The two Documents Nos. The 8 proposals we are discussing here today show that the entire political environment is concerned that oil protection along the coast must be the best, and that is joyous. There is no coastline in the world that poses as great challenges in terms of oil protection as the Norwegian one. Because the Norwegian coast is so far north, the variations in weather and light conditions are great. In addition, our coast is exceptionally long, all in all the Norwegian coastline, including fjords, coves and islands, is over 83 000 km long. Under such geographical conditions, it is difficult to maintain a good functioning oil protection system. That's why the cross-political commitment to this is so important. I am pleased that the committee's consideration of these two document Nos. The 8 proposals have ended with the Stortinget asking the Government to come back with its own news of oil protection during 2004. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to a wide-ranging debate on action and strategy for Norwegian oil protection. This is a problem we've been working on for a very long time. It is about threatening the coastal dining room, and oil spills will have disastrous consequences for the environment and biodiversity. However, a strong commitment to coastal security and preparedness is of little value if this commitment is not followed up with a leading environmental policy stance. That is why the fight against Sellafield is also important for the Christian People's Party and the Government. Nor will the Christian People's Party say yes to oil activity in the north if such activity is found to be contrary to important environmental considerations. The Ministry of Fisheries, in its two letters to the Committee, has given good and factual reasons for attaching the proposals of the SV and the Progress Party to the Protocol. As regards the transfer of the depots from Bergen to Ågotnes, this is justified by the fact that the depot premises in Bergen are not satisfactory. The movement will reduce the response time in both the north and south directions and will improve the storage capacity to ensure cruise traffic to Bergen. The Christian People's Party therefore supports the move, as does the majority in the Committee. The transfer of the main depot from Fedje to Florø is on its side justified by the need to reduce the response time towards the areas northwards towards City. Furthermore, significant private resources and private oil protection are linked to the activities of Sture and Mongstad. When the department then states in a letter that the depot in Fedje will be continued as a middle depot, the Christian People's Party feels confident that the oil conservation in this area is good enough, and agrees that no further analysis of the oil conservation in North Hordland is necessary. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to the Government's announcement on oil protection. It is necessary to be ‘cut’ in this field all the time because oil and gas activities along the coast are constantly changing and the pattern of shipping is changing. And if you haven't been leading was, it's after all good to be quick.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e126	The two Documents Nos. The 8 proposals that we are debating today both address important aspects of oil protection on the West Coast. Oil protection is an important theme for which there is every reason to pay great attention. Fortunately, we haven't had the huge oil spills on the Norwegian coast. However, the oplocks that have been shown clearly show that when the accident is out, the extent is often large. It is absolutely crucial that efforts come quickly and that the measures are effective. With a long and vulnerable coast, attention must be paid to assessing preparedness at regular intervals and to making changes and new measures when necessary and justified. The changes in the oil protection system that are the background for the two Documents No. The 8-proposal is the transfer of the depot from Bergen to Ågotnes, with an enhancement of the depot, and the transfer of the main depot from Fedje to Florø. The Centre Party supports the two changes made by the Ministry of Fisheries, based on the basics of the Department's letter and the case-speaker's approach, and also on the recommendation of the State Department of Pollution and the Coastal Agency. In my view, the reason for the changes is reasonable. When today's depot in Bergen, which we've been told has no satisfactory locality, is located in Ågotnes, a location that has an extended coverage area and has a shorter reaction time for events in both the north and south directions. A new location will provide better access to owned vessels than the one in Bergen. This may be decisive for the response time of an action. There is also reason to stress that, as before, Bergen harbour is responsible for emergency action at the municipality of Bergen. Moving the main depot from Fedje to Florø also means I have a reasonable foundation. Without the depot in Florø, the reaction time is northwards towards the areas of City too long as it is today. It is one of the most weather-resilient areas on the coast, and it is important that oil conservation is strengthened for this area. In my opinion, the changes proposed by the Ministry of Fisheries in oil protection will lead to a better coverage of larger parts of the West Coast than in the past. But there's reason to stress that we can't settle down with the oil protection equipment we have today. Maritime traffic along the coast is changing, and so is the risk picture. I am therefore pleased that a number of members of the Committee are asking the Government to present its own report on oil protection during 2004. The minority in the Committee, the Progress Party and the SV, believe that changes in the oil preparedness structure should not be implemented until the Department has submitted a communication on oil protection preparedness along the coast. I have a certain understanding of that point of view. The centre party has not yet joined this comment. Our view is that the changes should be implemented when it can provide better coverage, without waiting for long payments. But I would like to stress that the Central Party is in favour of the requirement for an assessment of oil protection, which we think should come during 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e145	I actually drew myself to say that I am satisfied with the treatment that has taken place in the committee. I'm very happy that we're together on all the decisions, and that we're going to get our own news of oil protection along the coast. I also share the assessments that the case rapporteurs and representatives both from the Central Party and from the Christian People's Party have made regarding the fact that this area, as described both from the Coastal Works and from the SFT, has an oil protection device that we can now say is gratifying. Nevertheless, I think it is going to be very exciting and challenging to deal with the big message to be presented on oil protection throughout the coast. There are parts of the coast that are not close to having the coverage of these areas. It's also natural, too much traffic has been associated with the terminals in Mongstad, and so it's been an area that's been exposed. Now we see that the threat picture has changed in recent years, mainly because of the establishment of the Murmansk oil terminal, and the increased transport of oil along the coast. That it is a major and serious environmental issue we are facing here, I am pleased that the whole committee is looking at it. Yesterday, a report from the World Nature Fund went through the situation following the Prestige accident. They now believe that the ‘Prestige’ accident has had worse consequences than the ‘Exxon Valdez’ accident in 1989. There is as much as 64,000 tonnes of crude oil leaking from the wreck. There are huge quantities, and this has led to at least 300,000 seabirds bowing below. When we hear these numbers, and at the same time we know that there are more oil tankers with over 100,000 tonnes of crude oil along the Norwegian coast, it says a little bit about the challenges we're facing. Nevertheless, there is still oil in the Prestige disaster and 5000 to 10000 tonnes of crude oil are still at sea after the Prestige accident. It's going to be exciting and challenging to see what level of risk we think it's acceptable to live with in relation to that type of cargo. That is why I am pleased that the Committee on Transport is going to deal with this. We have the opportunity to compare the level of risk that we find acceptable in this sector, for example. the level of risk that we consider acceptable for air traffic, which also has similar complex risk calculations. Finally, I would just like to say that I am pleased with the signals that the Christian People's Party made clear today in the Chamber, in relation to the priorities they are willing to place on the agenda when it comes to taking environmental considerations seriously and letting the precautionary principle weigh heavily in relation to the serious decisions we are facing in relation to the oil business in the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e160	I am very pleased that, as the rapporteur, Mr Hoddevik, said, a joint committee supports the Ministry of Fisheries that the changes in the depot structure in the West will strengthen the preparedness of the region. I also take note of the fact that the majority of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection believe that oil protection in the West is satisfactory and that no further analysis of oil conservation in this area is necessary. As you know, on 1 January 2003 the Ministry of Fisheries assumed responsibility for the state emergency at sea. At the same time, the trade union responsibility was transferred from the State pollution control to the Coastal Plant. Therefore, the pooling of responsibilities for maritime safety and emergency preparedness facilitates the coordination of both maritime safety work, which will prevent the occurrence of accidents and the preparedness for emergency pollution, which will limit damage in the event of an accident. I agree with the representative Holten, who pointed out the vulnerability of the coast, and that high and qualitatively good preparedness is important. It is also right, as the representative of Ringstad said, that there is a technical recommendation that underpins the reorganisation of the depot structure in this area. In 2001, the SFT carried out an analysis of the equipment and personnel needs of the State oil protection equipment along the entire Norwegian coast. In the light of that analysis and a comprehensive consultation round, SFT proposed changes to the depot structure in the Western region. The amendments included the closure of the depot in Fedje, while establishing a new depot in Florø. The Ministry of Fisheries, following an overall assessment and in line with the technical assessments made, has decided to move the main depot from Fedje to Florø, while setting up a new intermediate depot in Fedje. The equipment stored in the intermediate State depots is better suited for the mobilisation of Fedje than the equipment stored there today. There has been a broad local and regional involvement related to the Fedje depot, such as: The representative Svendsen was inside his post. I've been responsive to that commitment, and that's why we've changed our position along the way. The changes have been made to achieve a more efficient oil preparedness with a satisfactory response time for the entire West Coast. The decision must also be seen in the context of the move of today's main depot in Bergen to Ågotnes. The changes will result in the response time of any action being satisfactory for the entire West Coast. Oil protection equipment is built up of private, municipal and state resources. The best possible oil protection preparedness requires proper coordination of these resources. In addition, the oil industry has considerable resources and competence in the field of oil protection. For this reason, the Ministry of Fisheries has initiated closer cooperation with the oil authorities and the oil industry on oil protection. The aim is to look at how best to make the best use of the response resources available to the oil industry, as part of total oil protection along the coast. I have taken note of the Committee's proposal to ask the Government to promote a roll-out report on Norwegian oil protection preparedness during 2004. Of course, we'll follow that up. In fact, we are already doing this in the Ministry of Fisheries, not least on the basis of the debate that took place in Stortinget a week ago, linked to the towing boat capacity in the north. There will also be an interesting and important work to assess the overall impact of enlargement and government. Of course, the initiative adopted by the Committee in its current position shall be followed up. Of course, an overall assessment of risk and preparedness is important, and as I have said, it is also put on the agenda in the Government. In a spillover on oil protection, we can gather all the threads and, based on them, set the framework for Norwegian oil protection in the future. This issue was also one of the first government to come to Stortinget with, in the big news of clean and rich seas. Norway has, as many have been, a long and vulnerable coast, which provides a basis for high value creation. At the same time, maritime traffic along the coast has increased more than previous forecasts have shown. In particular, the extraction and loading of oil in the Russian part of the Barents Sea has resulted in an increase in the traffic of oil tankers along the coast of North Norway. As a consequence of these developments, we face major challenges in protecting the coast from the consequences of any oil disaster and in defining the risks against which it is possible to guard. The accident of the Prestige oil tanker off the coast of Spain in November 2002 shows the significant consequences of large oil spills, as also pointed out by the representative Sørensen in his speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e181	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e184	Two things. One is that there is a clear difference of opinion in the committee, but it appears in the form of a comment. The impression of the Council of State that this is a broad and unanimous uprising about everything is therefore not entirely comprehensive. The second is that, earlier in the debate on the two proposals put forward, there was no willingness either from the Council of State or from the Ministry to carry out a new analysis. The intention of the directive to create a new oil protection plan is that we should have a new analysis, and we assume that a thorough analysis is being carried out now. Something else would be an obstruction. What I want to ask concretely is: when can we expect the message presented in 2004, because here we are busy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e193	I am a little unsure about how to view my post as ignoring that there are different points of view in the setting. I explained that here I referred – when I did it – to a majority, or to an overall committee. Today, when we get a decision on a new big message, I, as I have informed, have already started that work based on the debate that was in Stortinget a week ago. This means that we will follow up today’s decision to deliver the notification during 2004. I would like to believe that both the Storting and the Government need to get a thorough and thorough report on the big business, and I am not able today to give a closer date before this is decided, but during 2004 we will deliver. This means that we have time to do a thorough job, so that we can also dimension preparedness and activity in the future in relation to a thorough analysis of the situation and the risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e201	In some Nordic newspapers, we can read today that the Coast works are about to pick out what is referred to as natural pearls that can be sacrificed in the event of an oil disaster. It is a question of having ports of refuge where ships that have either crashed or are about to crash and, where appropriate, accept that those areas are being destroyed in order to avoid a major disaster. Can the Council confirm that this type of assessment will also be part of the oil protection message that we will receive next year? Or does he feel that there are measures that he wants in place before that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e208	As I have explained earlier in Stortinget, this is a registration with the port of refuge and the beaching sites we make, and we expect that we will be in place during the month of February next year. But that doesn't mean anything but that we've picked out, not natural pearls -- that's not what's been the criterion -- but areas that can be suitable for taking in Hagarists, and in that way limit the amount of damage. We saw with ‘Prestige’ that sending it to sea results in years of leakage, while pulling it into the coast might have been beneficial, in a fjord in a demarcated area. Then it's important that we have this in place. We have already started to register – we have done so far for many years – and this must be an ongoing assessment. It is quite clear that emergency ports and beaching sites will be part of what needs to be explained and outlined in the Storing Message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e215	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e220	As one of the proposers, I have some comments on the vote. To repeat that, it is gratifying that the Committee unanimously concludes that we are receiving its own news of oil protection preparedness. The risk profile along the coast, and especially in the area covered by both proposals, has changed in recent years. The situation in which Norway appears to be a major producer of oil and gas also follows the installations, transport and treatment of oil and gas and the associated and increasing risk of accidents and emissions. Prevention preparedness in the Bergen area has been greatly upgraded over the years and has contributed to the absence of accidents that have resulted in acute discharges of any size. However, it is a fact that at the crossroads – because that is what we are talking about, that is what is essential in this issue – between the main link north-south along the coast and the entrance links to the large oil terminals on Sture and Mongstad, takes place approximately. 50000 ship movements each year. I think I get the sense of what traffic we're really talking about – 50,000 ship movements every year! Many of these movements concern ships of more than 400000 deadweight tons. Sooner or later, therefore, an accident is likely to occur in the waters, perhaps of a more serious nature. Now others have a memory of fresh international accidents, and I can recall what the Stortinget said in St.meld. No 25 for 1993-94 when talking about Norwegian oil protection. At that time, the reference ‘Exxon Valdez’ emissions were 40000 tonnes. It was worried about that time, and it was pointed out that a similar discharge in the Mongstad area would cause adverse effects northward along the coast all the way to Nordland County. It is regrettable that the Committee will not agree with us that structural changes in the emergency response plan are not implemented until the notification has been submitted and examined. It is also not understandable when there is a common desire to have a new integrated, up-to-date and thorough analysis of oil protection, while at the same time urgently implementing changes in the area against which regional and local authorities strongly warn. However, the Progress Party hopes that once the forthcoming notification of oil protection preparedness has been addressed in the Storting, the preparedness of the area affected by both proposals will be strengthened and that we will also see changes in the measures that the Department and the Council of State are now so busy implementing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e233	I am also pleased that a collusion decides to submit a separate notification of oil protection preparedness during 2004. Such a case is overdue and should have come before any changes such as Document No were made. The 8's we're dealing with now, they're coined. There is reason to worry that there have been no significant changes in the depot structure and equipment composition since the state’s oil protection preparedness was established at the end of the 1970s. It is clear that there is a need to assess whether state preparedness is appropriate to the current risk picture, and whether all coastal areas have a satisfactory preparedness. I now hear that others have named accidents that have been elsewhere in the world, and I'm not going to go into it any closer. The changes that are now being made before a holistic assessment is completed give the municipalities reason to anticipate additional responsibilities. In fact, it is dramatic when a small municipality such as Fedje, with 600 to 700 inhabitants, has to sit in charge of oil protection with a middle depot covering some containers of oil protection equipment located on a nearby berth. The change in relation to the state deposit that Fedje has currently had means that the municipality will be seated with the responsibility and the bill for the maintenance and servicing of this depository. It is unparalleled in relation to the vulnerable location of Fedje as a ‘rounding buoy’ for the seal of the largest oil port in Europe, Mongstad – Mongstad, which in turn represents a difficult source of income for Norway. The challenge for the area in question has not been reduced by years. And if the intermediate depot is without emergency response functions, it's actually a weakening in relation to the system that's in force today, even though the Bergens readiness is being moved to Ågotnes. There is also reason to recall that oil protection is needed to protect another important source of income for Norway, namely fisheries and aquaculture. These industries represent around 30 billion export crowns per year and are important coastal jobs. There is also reason to remind you that there are very vulnerable areas here that we are talking about when it concerns the Fedje area. Frames will be multiple points of intersection, with oil extraction in several vulnerable areas. It is quite obvious that a major report on oil protection needs to take account of the way in which expenditure and responsibility for preparedness are to be allocated, so that the most outsourced communities do not become overly responsible in one way or another.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e246	That I am engaged in this matter should not be of great amazement. I am very pleased that proposals have been made and that this has been dealt with in the committee. As I have said before from this pulpit, we have very poor oil protection. I am pleased that the Government takes this seriously and that there are proposals from the Committee for a comprehensive communication. I've said that before, and I'd like to repeat it: we don't have any oil protection equipment today, but we still have the best in the world because we have the only special built vessel that can maintain oil protection. Demonstrations are taking place today in order for Norway to refrain from extraction in the Barents Sea. We can do that. There is an extraction of oil in the Barents Sea today, but it is done by another nation. We have a lot of tankers, as I have said before, to sail from Russia and down along the coast, and we have a lot of empty boats to sail north. In 2005, there will be 18 tankers off the coast of Norway whether we like it or not. There's a bad deal about oil protection. We finally got a towing vessel stationed on Sortland, at Coast Guard, which is supposed to take care of the interests of those who had to travel on the coast. The critical phase – we all know that, at least I know it – is from getting a machine damage to dragging a sheep on board. It's the critical phase. Where the vessel is to be towed is a completely different matter. The critical phase is from getting a machine injury to dragging a sheep on board. Vessels operate at a few miles per hour. With the new sailing routes proposed by the Ministry of Fisheries, which I had up in the Questionnaire yesterday, the boat will be ashore in four hours – eight miles in four hours is the closest from land. Can anyone imagine going from Sortland, where the new towing vessel will be located, and to Finnmark? No, no, no. We have decided in this Chamber that there should be VAT on services provided by the Defence Agency. It has to be 24 pst. VAT on the cost of carrying a towing vessel to safeguard the interests of Norway. It doesn't look like a bird or fish, but we've decided it. I am very pleased and have nothing against the proposal that the Government should promote a comprehensive oil protection report for the Storting. There's a need!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e257	Just a few short notes. I take from what the representative Sortevik referred to, 50,000 ship movements in this area, some of the vessels are over 400,000 tonnes, and we have avoided serious accidents. One of the reasons is that we have a very good preparedness along the coast. We have built up, through the construction of oil activity in the West, in the combination of the public and private oil company, a preparedness that has helped to ensure that we have not had serious accidents. It's a good readiness, it's a competent loser, and it's competent people on the traffic hubs. Then it's up to us as political authorities to assess the current risk and the preparedness we're going to have. There is also a background for the Government now this year and in the next budgets that we are going to increase the number of oil protection basins along the coast, and we are going to continue to strengthen both intermediate and main depots. Then it's important – and that's what I especially needed to say – that we have to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. Former representative Syse used to say that one should be done, and the other is not neglected. Now we have to make sure that neither Stortinget nor the Government use a big message that comes in 2004, as an argument that we will not make decisions along the way. I suggest that we continuously improve the preparedness, regardless of the time when the down-to-earth message comes. It is important that we now implement the changes that have been affected by the proposals today. It is important that we now get stranding sites and emergency ports in place, which the representative Sørensen was concerned about, and does not postpone decisions. So one is to be done, and the other is not to be neglected. That's what I intend to do as responsible for the preparedness along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e264	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Fotation, see page 419]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e284	When I've chosen to challenge the Council of State on visions and goals of gay policy work, it might be a useful starting point to remember why there is at all a need for a gay policy. For nothing would please me more than if we had come so far that homopolitics was an irrelevant concept because there was no difference between people based on sexual orientation. But unfortunately this is not the case. Despite the fact that over the last 50 years we have gone from mentioning homophilia as a disease to a theme that is possible, for example. to discuss openly from the country's leading pulpit, despite the fact that we have gone from the ban on sex between men to the Partnership Act, despite the fact that general developments have gone in a direction that has given greater understanding that sex and life can be more diverse than flowers, bees and mies, we are not yet in the finish line. We saw this clearly in the NOVA report on which St.meld was based. No 25 for 2000-2001, Life year and quality of life for lesbians and gays in Norway. Because, fortunately, this study concludes that the life situation of lesbians and homosexuals in several areas has improved considerably in the last 20 years, for example, lesbians and homosexuals are coming. clearly lower than the majority population in the case of violence and fear of violence. The age group of young people under the age of 25 appears to be lower than all other age groups in most of the quality of life and quality of life objectives of the survey, and this trend is particularly evident in mental health issues. The most frightening example is that one in four in this age group have tried to take their own life. Another example from this age group is that the percentage of lesbians under the age of 25 who have been exposed to threats in the last year is many times as high as in the general population. A common approach to prejudice and discrimination against a particular group is to assume that discrimination in attitudes and behaviour is so old-fashioned and so based on lack of knowledge that over time they will almost die out of themselves. Unfortunately, we have to conclude that this is wrong. There is no natural law that suggests that these kinds of attitudes and actions – whether directed at people with a different sexual orientation, a different color of skin or simply a different sex from those who have the most power in society – automatically disappears through a kind of attitude revolution. A frightening example of the fact that the world is not sure that it is just going ahead came in a survey The Daily newspaper referred to in August. For example, when the difference between Denmark and Norway in aid for the establishment of gay partnerships is as large as 82 pst. aid in Denmark versus 66 pst. support in Norway, it gives cause for concern. It is not certain that the fight for attitudes can be won by sitting still and watching. On the contrary, it seems quite certain that those who wish to fight discrimination and prejudices must take an active part in such a struggle. So my challenge to the Council of State is on goals and visions for the work of gay politics, and what kind of view of gay and lesbian state councils is at the root of their work. I don't belong to those who believe in miracles, so I don't expect the Council's view here to be exactly consistent with SV's view. But to further the challenge, I allow myself to outline our responses to these challenges. To take the last one first: SV obviously sees lesbians and gays as people, with the same human dignity as the majority population. And as long as we stick to the goal and heading level, we can certainly agree on such a goal formulation. But for SV, this view also has the consequence that we can't actually defend the fact that Norway's laws are going to make a difference between people on the basis of sexual orientation. This also applies to issues related to, for example: adoption, foster parents and biotechnology law. SV is confident that lesbians and gays are as good caregivers as heterofiles. I allow myself to mention that although the Christian People's Party disagrees with SV in these questions, we see no reason alone to blame for the Christian People's Party when we think it is a problem that the law makes a difference. In several of these questions, the majority of the population still choose to stand for the law to make a difference between people on the basis of sexual orientation. Since the Council of State also represents the Christian People's Party, I will allow myself to say that I think the Christian People's Party has got a lot of undeserved credit or guilt for the legal situation we have. So it's not only useful to blame a Christian People's Party when a majority in this Chamber is not willing to take the decisions that will result in full equality and equality for the law between homosexuals and heterophiles. For the majority's message becomes a double message: gay and lesbian are as much worth as others, but there is still to be a difference. Now, this is much better than the previous message from this room and from the majority population – that is, if we go back 20 years in time – when we only said that it would be made different, not that gay and lesbians were as much worth as others. But we still have one way left to go. To draw up some visions: the Christian People's Party is at least in some context a party that emphasizes the value of freedom of choice. This may be more relevant in the question of cash support than in the question of self-determined abortion, but we can now leave those debates behind. Option may also be that we should be able to free ourselves from the fact that there is only one pattern, or possibly two patterns, for how to live our lives in such an important area as love, sex, life, family life, or whatever you choose to call it. Freedom of choice may be about trying to end first the heteronormativeness that says that anyone should have 1,8 children, golden retrievers, villa in Bærum – without saying a bad word about my home country – and in the next round may also end the prejudices that say that if you then choose to deviate from this norm, if you are gay or lesbian, you should fit into another coercive street. The challenge, if we give people real freedom of choice, is actually to get a variety of patterns of how people can be, not one role pattern in gender, not one role pattern in love, togetherness. This is the vision that should underlie the homosexual work, a vision of a kind of freedom of choice for all in relation to these questions. It is the liberating potential that lies in this political debate. When the government councillor Karita Bekkemelm Orheim presented the big news of the Year of Life and the quality of life for lesbians and gays in Norway, she said from this pulpit that this was the most important document she had presented to the Stortinget in her Council of State. Although I believe, as I said, that not all proposals that should have been promoted were promoted in that big message, it is also doing something in relation to the attitude we are fighting with, that one has a council that dares to call itself a gay politician, a gay councillor, who dares to emphasise this as an important political area. I think that despite the fact that we disagree with some legal issues, the Council of State doesn't want to just sit down and watch that you continue for example. have suicide rates for young lesbians and homosexuals. My challenge to the Council of State will then be: How will the Council of State make it clear that this work is also important for the Christian People's Party? What extensive hand does the Christian People’s Party want to share in the work we actually agree on in relation to living conditions and quality of life? As I said, I assume that SV is not alone in the fight to end the sometimes unworthy numbers that you see when you ask lesbians and homosexuals in relation to discrimination and in relation to living conditions. Then, of course, there are some things you can take care of. A question mentioned in the interpellation is the question of ste pediatric adoption. I am glad that the matters that have been mentioned a lot in the media had such a happy outcome when they came to the Council of State table. At the same time, I would like to say that what we have seen in this case, raises the question of whether the Storting itself should have gone in and looked at its decision. Because it is clear that if Storting's intention was to secure children who are actually born into a family of two mothers – from day one, this is not about ste child adoption – then perhaps the Storting should have gone into and looked at the Children's Act and gone into and looked at how we are going to secure these children from the first day. It is a well-known fact that the child’s first year of life is important for the child’s life, and it is clear that uncertainty among real parents during this period will also be detrimental to the child. So there I wonder if the Council of State can comment – if we are to have such a system now, and if the majority of the population wants it to be such that children born into a family where they actually have two mothers should have these two as legal parents – if it is then possible to improve today's system. Because I assume that the Council of State doesn't think it's particularly festive to be left as a target because the Stebarn adoption actually has a long treatment period. Furthermore, I hope that the Council of State will come up with what her visions are in relation to information work. We know that when we talk about combating attitudes we don't want, and fighting for other attitudes, information is central. Homophilic and lesbian themselves provide information as the main element of this NOVA report. I hope the Council of States can say something about a work to eliminate discrimination where there may be a consensus that it is unfounded, for example. in relation to the matter of the Christian People's Party itself, in relation to the Blood Bank. With this I will end. I hope that the Council of State has a lot of excitement to come with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e312	I thank Siri Hall Arnøy for the interview. The government believes that targeted efforts are essential to create changes in attitudes and better living conditions for homosexuals and lesbians. Over the past year and the current year, more than 20 million have been used. kr for this work. With this, anti-discrimination work has been given a major boost in Norway. Both I as the responsible State Council and the Government take seriously the right of homosexuals to participate in society, the right to influence through organisations, with demands for equal living conditions as the majority. Let me briefly convey the results of the follow-up to the Leverage Year and the quality of life for lesbians and gays in Norway, St.meld. No 25 for 2000-2001. The notification proposed a large number of measures, 38 in the figure, and most have been followed up. The Ministry of Children and Family assumed the coordination responsibility for the follow-up. Extensive work has been undertaken in the seven departments involved in the follow-up to the notification. One of the main objectives of the wake-up message is to prevent discrimination and to promote non-discrimination and the acceptance of lesbians and homosexuals. And the following actions are examples of what we have started: In order to improve the National Association for Lesbian and Homofil Liberation – LLH – to contribute to improving the living conditions of lesbians and gays, the operating aid was increased to 2 million. kr in 2002, an amount which was continued this year and which we are also proposing to continue next year. The funds shall be used, inter alia: to carry out the task of acting as a knowledge bank. Priority must be given to young people and regional considerations must be taken into account. In addition, funds were allocated in 2002 and 2003 for LLH to be a driver of anti-discrimination work, with a particular focus on organisational and labour life. According to information from LLH, this project is perceived as very important. It is employed by a lawyer in LLH who works primarily against working life and with legal protection of discrimination. This project will be completed in 2004 and, of course, evaluated. The government's proposal for a separate chapter of the Working Environment Act on equal treatment in employment means that discrimination is prohibited due to a number of factors, including: sexual orientation. Unlike current legislation, the ban will apply not only in the case of employment but also during work and in the event of the cessation of employment. Funds have been provided both last year and this year for information to the public and health professionals related to gender identity. The Transsexual National Association has received funds for operation, information work and a screening project. Transparency in church environments is also important. Open Church Group has been given funds to work on information about being a lesbian and gay directed at firms and congregations. The Church’s Bymission/Church’s SOS has, among other things: an employee of a pastor who offers conversation to lesbians and gays. I agree with Siri Hall Arnøy that information may be one of the most important things we can bet on in combating negative attitudes and discrimination against homosexuals and lesbians today. Many young people experience it as difficult to open up as lesbians or gays. For this reason, young people were a key target group in the follow-up work of the EEAS, including young people with a migrant background. A large and targeted effort has been made by different departments, and I will mention only some of the measures – there are many, many more: the information campaign «Gay in the country», through the Norwegian Building Juvenile Anthology «Barfot», from the Gyldendal Time of information activities on homophile to young people in schools and leisure clubs, through the LLH preventive drug work among young homophiles, through the Health Committee for homofiles, where the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs are behind Homofiles Youth Telephone, where the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs have provided resources to teachers and information staff to young people and their parents on life and sexuality, the theme of which is homophile, published by the Department of Education and Research the film «Kampen voor kärlighet», which Homofil youth with a migrant background has supported the pilot study «Levegy Year and Quality of Life among lesbians and gays with an immigrant background», by the NOVA through the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs; A central element has been the acquisition of more knowledge about the everyday lives of homosexuals and their history. Adding a historical dimension to the knowledge base provides for recognition and thereby its associatedness. And the following grip is taken: The media operators have made films focusing on the history of older homofiles. The film is among others: shown in the «Saturday Facts» in the NRK, and it is now also offered in libraries. A research project covers the conditions and forms of expression of homosexuality in Norway between 1920 and 1980. This is just one of five projects with issues related to being lesbian or homophile that have been made possible through earmarked funds from the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs of the Gender Research Programme of the Research Council. Previous research has, among other things: has been shown to be somewhat more vulnerable to different types of health-related problems than to the general population. For this reason, the Advisory Service for Homophiles in the Municipality of Oslo has also been strengthened, for example. through the Olafia Clinic. Here again, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs are behind it. LLH has received funding for the ‘Rus prevention in gay environments’ project. In addition, a number of measures have been taken to prevent suicide. The Ministry of Child and Family Affairs has recently decided on several complaints relating to Styria adoption in registered partnerships. So far, the decisions of the Child, Youth and Family Administration have been appealed to the Department in five cases. We got things in the department at the end of September. In three cases, the decision of the Child, Youth and Family Administration has been reversed and the application for a child support option has been granted. In the fourth appeal case, the Agency’s decision was maintained. The fifth came in later, and has not yet been dealt with in the ministry. In my opinion, this shows that these complaints are usually dealt with as other issues relating to stebarn adoption. On this basis, I also believe that the intention behind the change in the law that opened access for steped children's adoption in registered partnerships is followed up. In the proposal for a new regulation, we have explicitly regulated the issue of foster home placement of children with homosexuals and lesbians. This is a question of value that many people are very concerned about. For the Government, it has therefore been important to have a wide-ranging debate on the issue in the form of a consultation round. The Ministry of Child and Family Affairs is now working on the hearing opinions, which so far seem to be cracking. However, like me, everyone is concerned that it is the best of the child that should be decisive for which foster home to choose. I have not yet concluded on the matter, but will make a decision during December. The parental guidance programme envisages a theme booklet for parents on youth and homophilia. The aim is to complete the theme booklet by the summer of 2004. In the competence plan for family protection, homophilis will be the subject of professional training. The purpose is to strengthen this service’s guidance to parents of gay and lesbian and also to lesbian/homophile couples. I have tried to get some of the measures we have taken. There's no exhaustive list, but we're following up, and we're spending considerable resources on this work. We've done it both last year and this year and will continue in 2004. The concept of Hall Arnøy's representative used in his post, that it's not just to sit still, I actually think it's quite perceptive that the representative should actually have gotten involved in the work we do, in seven departments. We're definitely not at rest. We work offensively. We have a working group where LLH is also involved in meeting them twice a year. I thank you for your attention and look forward to a constructive debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e397	First, I must say to the Council of State that she must have misunderstood me a little if she realized that what I said about actually having to take part in a fight if you want to change attitudes, was an accusation that the Government was calm. On the other hand, I said that this is something that concerns all of us who are concerned about changing attitudes. But it may be that the Council of State has experienced so much more or less well-founded shootings in these cases that she is unable to perceive things that are not unilaterally meant as criticism – I do not know that. I am pleased that we agree on the importance of these measures. I'm not going to go into the discussion about sums of money, because it belongs in another debate. However, I would like to ask for the debate on not only the use of funds, but also how to go into the public debate and participate in this battle for attitudes, because I think we can see a clear difference between the current Council of State and the predecessors of the Council of State. It may be that there are different approaches from different political viewpoints, but I still lack the visions of the Council of State, as I ask in my interpellation, the views of the Council of State on gays and lesbians in relation to where we want to go with this debate. What's the goal? What is the wish of the Council of State? And how does the Council of State want to use its position to get closer to this? In relation to stebarn adoption, I have a specific question to the Council of State. If a child is born of a woman who lives in partnership with another woman, where the child has been conceived in such a way that the father is unknown and also has no desire to report as a father to the child, and the child is actually standing with one legal parent, does the council consider it appropriate to refer this mother’s partner to be the child’s voice, or can it be right to view the other woman as the child’s ‘same mother’, i.e. a parent from day one? Then I have a question to the Council of State in relation to the issue of foster homes. Everyone agrees, of course, that the child’s best interests must be based on accommodation in foster homes, and everyone agrees, of course, that each case must be considered separately. It is not possible to set up a fasitant response for what is best for all children. Does the Council of State think that it may be possible that it is best for the child to exclude an entire group from being a parent? So, does the Council of State think it is possible to overlook it when one goes into each case, and categorically states that one group, such as gay and lesbian, should be excluded from being foster parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e408	As regards the first question, about stebarn's adoption, of course, I have, as the Council of State, referred to what the Storting has adopted in this matter. That means that the debate on this matter, and I expect that also the representative Hall Arnøy has read, was primarily a discussion related to children who already lived with gay and lesbian couples. In the big debate you had at the time, it was for example. Nor was it proposed to have the same arrangement for gays and lesbians as you have for married couples, namely that if a child is born into a family, the partner, or the husband in the cases where you are married, becomes an automatic legal father. It is quite right, as the representative said in his first post, that there is not really a problem with the legislation we now have for ste children's adoption. It's important to be clear. So to this with foster homes. In the Ministry of Children and Family, we are now working on the hearing opinions, and a lot of people have commented on this. It shows that this question is engaging. Like most hearing bodies, I believe that sexual orientation should not exclude anyone from being a foster parent, but that it is the child’s best that is crucial – and everyone agrees – when foster homes are to be selected. I just want to mention that in the value chapter of the family message, which is now being treated in Stortinget, it says that a child has the right to a mother and a father. I can't see that it's going to be less applicable to foster children, who may also have a special need to experience in close proximity differences in reaction patterns and solution patterns between the two sexes, without it being threatening or incomprehensible. Of course, I do not close my eyes to all the family forms that exist today. Of course, anyone who wants to make an effort as a foster home should have the right to be evaluated. The proposal that gay and lesbian foster parents should be chosen as foster homes, that we should now adhere to it and actually have a hearing on it is important. It shall apply where particular consideration is given to the fact that it is therefore solely linked to the child and not to relationships relating to potential foster parents. My approach angle here is the child all the time, but no one should initially be excluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e419	Year of life and quality of life for homosexuals and lesbians have actually been and is a very important matter for the Workers' Party. That is why, in so many ways, we have also been involved in it, because it is about solidarity and respect. Year of life and quality of life are both about having the right to love, the right to live, and it is also about being allowed to give. We want to demystify the relationship around being lesbian and gay, so that gay and lesbians can easily develop a safe and solid self-identity. In Norwegian history, there has been widespread discrimination against homosexuals and lesbians. We have to admit that. Homosexual acts include: have been illegal under criminal law, and many attempts have been made by Norwegian psychiatry to change the orientation of homosexuals. Evolution has gone in a positive direction, fortunately. Non-discrimination is now a fundamental part of Norwegian law and legislation. Nevertheless, it is important to recognise that there is still discrimination against lesbians and homosexuals in Norwegian society. This discrimination is contrary to the values we have in the Workers' Party and cannot, in any case, be accepted. Although, in some contexts, a person is able to establish formal rights, the real differences may still be visible. It is therefore important that formal equivalence in rights and obligations is also followed up by measures that improve the actual conditions of lesbians and homosexuals in order to achieve a good life, for their own benefit and for the benefit of society. I want to commend the interpellant for addressing this debate. I think that at regular intervals we actually need to have openness in this house about the situation. We still have a way to go, and that way we have to go together. Of course, it's about formal rights, but it's actually about respect first and foremost, and then we have to get away from the term 'healing'.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e432	Initially, I would like to say that the magazine Blick, as the interpellant pointed out, is an important contribution to the media diversity we appreciate. For this reason, Stortinget also provides annual press support for this magazine – 0.5 million. kr for the current year, and it is also proposed for the following year. It's important. But let me also say that I have not intended to take statements made in the magazine Blink, including, I think, very trendy representations of the Council of State, as some kind of proof of truth, as it may seem like the interpellant does. So this interpellation isn't about the magazine Blick. It is about gay and lesbian and about the efforts of the Government and the Council of State in the field of gay politics. The right assumes that all humans are to be accepted and treated as equivalent. This equivalence applies regardless of nationality, gender, age, religion, ethnicity, integrity or sexual orientation. It is important that society recognises individuality and stimulates diversity. Attempts to standardise people undermine the equivalency and respect for diversity. About two and a half years ago, we dealt with a news report on the living conditions of lesbians and gays. The announcement was in its time proposed by just the Right and SV and received broad support here in Stortinget, also from the Christian People's Party Council at the time, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland. We thought it was important to have an opportunity to discuss these issues on a broad front. A number of governments have been working on both the big message and the implementation of the measures, and not least the voluntary organisations have been involved in questioning the living conditions of gay and lesbians on the agenda. There are perhaps two issues that have been particularly relevant lately, and that they homosexuals and their organisations have been concerned about. The first one applies to stebarn adoption. Here I would like to refer to what the Storting has decided, and what is the current legislation. I record that many are impatient and would like to press forward faster decisions on the granting of adoption. At the same time, I believe that both we and the case can benefit from the fact that we are moving slowly. Here, it is important to get decisions and a system and practice that can be overdue. I have gladly registered that the ministry has now decided four complaints about ste children's adoption, and that three of them have been granted. The second issue concerns a new regulation on foster homes. We dealt with in the Storting in our Child Welfare Communication, and the majority expressed a clear desire that child protection should first be sought by foster homes within the biological family. This also includes gay and lesbian family members. I will now state that I personally believe that it is the foster parents' care and the best, not sexual orientation, that must be crucial. In conclusion, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important topic and also the Council of State for a good and thorough presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e451	The representative Siri Hall Arnøy today takes up an interview on objectives and visions for homopolitical work. I must honestly say that we in the Progress Party are very sceptical about the fact that the public should have its own homopolitics. As politicians, we have a natural ombudsman role for the population in all situations of life. But this must not be linked to the sexual orientation you have. The needs of the population for good health, schooling, a proper infrastructure, security of life and property, etc. shall be provided by politicians, whether in the case of homofiles, bifiles or heterofiles. Of course, it is important that we have active organisations like LLH and active politicians like Hall Arnøy, who act as ‘wake thunder’ both in relation to public authorities and society. Discrimination on the basis of legislating should be seriously addressed, but it is not the same as the fact that groups should have a number of specific measures. Let me give you an example: you can choose to run what you call an active gay policy, and for example. establish their own criminal penalties for so-called hate crime, violence against homosexuals, as required by LLH. Of course, it doesn't make sense that someone gets knocked up because of his sexual orientation, but it doesn't make any sense to get knocked up because of his skin color, his hair color, his political opinions, his dress, or simply because the rapist doesn't like his face - there are many examples of this. Blind violence is meaningless whether it affects gay or heterophilic, black or white, women or men. If you want far more severe punishments for blind violence, the Progress Party's answer is yes. If you want special rules for individual groups, the answer is no. This is a very good example of how the Progress Party behaves in these matters. We are constantly hearing about investigations that say that someone has problems standing up with their lay, whether it's relative to family, friends, at school or at work. This is regrettable, but there is really little politicians can do about it. We cannot decide in Stortinget that it should be socially acceptable in all parts of society to stand up as a homophile. What can be done is to be exact with equal treatment, to fight bullying and to have clear rules against discrimination. The situation on e.g. a job is not something politicians can decide to change. Here, company management, trade unions and the individual must go on their own. It may be that the representative Hall Arnøy is not particularly pleased with the views I have given on her challenges, but for the Progress Party is the most central non-discrimination, and that is the principle we will follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e464	The Council of State said in its speech that Siri Hall Arnøy accused the Council of State of sitting still. I didn't hear the interpellant say that, but I believe that both the Council of State and the Committee have been at rest for too long. We have dealt with several major messages in our committee that have not focused particularly on lesbian and gay living conditions: the Children's Act, the Children's Protection Act, the Growth Communication – and now we are dealing with a large and important family message that does not take on the problem we are talking about. There are major and important messages, where the Council of State has had the opportunity — and responsibility — to focus on living conditions for homosexuals and lesbians. It has been done to a small extent by the Council of State, and it has been done to a small extent by the Committee. I also take criticism of that myself. Assimilated couples who are married, cohabitants and couples who live in partnership, in relation to the parent role, will come as suggestions from SV in connection with this family message. If we are serious about integration and acceptance, we must not have our own messages about living conditions for lesbians and gays. What we have to do in the future is integrate gay and lesbian into all the important work our committee does.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e471	We've got an interpellation that sheds light on the attitudes that society meets the gays and lesbians with. I think it's an important interpellation, since we haven't had a case on this in the committee, as the last speaker stressed. Like the representative, Mr Knudsen, I am also of the opinion that there is no way of adopting a negative attitude towards, for example, the problem. sexual orientation, it says itself, even though there are a lot of things we as authorities, as the ministry and as the magnificence can contribute just to be involved in building down negative attitudes and prejudices, also in things like this. But it is clear that we must all take responsibility here, whether it be the authorities or not least the opinion-makers, the media and the school. Voluntary organisations are also central, including gay and lesbian organisations. It is a very wide range of measures that need to be taken to be able to influence attitudes over time. It's a long process of change – it's important to think about it. We had the big news just before the last committee left in 2001, so it's not that long since it was dealt with. Now, when I hear the Council of State, I'd like to say that it's done a lot to follow up this very message. When the NOVA report arrived in its time, it sent shock waves into the political environment about the situation of homosexuals and lesbians. The report pointed out that very many committed suicide — one in four — and that especially young people were very vulnerable. It is clear that this made an impression on us, also on me. In the debate that followed, I think we just underlined the importance of promoting a number of measures that addressed this problem. It's done, the Council of State has underlined it. I think it's time to read the long list of measures taken by the ministry. It is true that when the department acts, the Storting doesn't always have to deal with a matter, but now we have this matter today, and I think it's nice that it is being debated. The Christian People's Party was also mentioned here in particular, and our central government has previously adopted a statement on the relationship with homosexuals and lesbians in which human equality and respect for the individual human beings are emphasized. We put it at the bottom of all our work on all kinds of leggings – also gay and lesbian. Since the time is short, I would just like to stress that we are still going to do this in the process of following up this message. We're going to meet gay and lesbians with an inclusive attitude and with respect. Attention and recognition are vital for developing as a human being. Even though we disagreed on the adoption of stepchildren in their time, we see that the Council of State has followed up that matter, as the Storting has decided. I think to the extent that it is baseless to blame the Christian People's Party on a matter like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e483	The representative, Hall Arnøy, focuses on the need for changes in attitudes towards the group of homosexuals. Preventing discrimination and prejudice is an important work. The question will be how. The homofile group is probably as complex as the heterofile group. This leads to problems with a purely group thinking. My starting point is that a need for respect and tolerance for the individual, regardless of the group to which it belongs. The freedom of the individual must be the bearer. No group is anything but a larger or smaller collection of individuals. The future is being created, it is not being adopted. That means, as I see it, that a difficult person can impose or decide that people should have positions. Attitudes change as normalisation develops and feels. This means that personal choices must be respected on a very broad basis, not only in the country’s preferred areas. Special measures for groups, including homophiles, can very quickly be as stigmatizing as normalising. The signal that someone needs special measures can be used by intolerant persons as a kind of evidence that the people involved are not like others and therefore cannot be treated as others. What is important by creating tolerance and respect is, in my opinion, normalization. In order to achieve normalisation, there is a need for non-discrimination and no reconstruction of specific measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e494	Initially, I would like to comment on the study mentioned by the representative Hall Arnøy, who was mentioned in the Newspaper, on the difference between Norway and Denmark in the position of partnership. As a right-wing politician, like some politicians from the Progress Party, I am not committed to adopting changes in attitude. But I have to admit that, for example. the adoption of the Partnership Act has proved to be effective, as the study shows that the attitudes towards homosexuals have changed quite strongly since the adoption of the Partnership Act. It makes you, as a conservative politician, think a lot about what might work and what might not work. So that there can be no change in attitude, that it can be adopted in a workplace, for example. in the nearest sense, the peoples of the individual boss or a lack of folklore, which in a way is to be the model of what can be accepted on the basis of discrimination. I have to say, it is quite perceptive to hear the Progress Party base a position that actually implicitly indicates that it was wrong to adopt a ban on discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation in the Work Environment Act. I think that's a rather special way of pursuing a liberal policy. It would mean that the individual boss, depending on the day-form or his own preferences, would decide to what extent it would be okay or not to discriminate against people on the basis of sexual orientation. That, I think, was quite clarifying in relation to what the Progress Party stands for in terms of specific measures and discrimination in the labour market. With regard to these specific measures, the Progress Party is quite quickly on the plate in relation to immigrants, asylum seekers, whether electronic labelling or other things. We have been presented with the latest NOVA report on attitudes, living conditions and quality of life among gay and lesbian immigrants. It should then be expected that the Progress Party, based on previous reactions, for example. abuse of women in immigrant environments would be on the verge of really making a general settlement with them – what to say – the anti-democratic attitudes, the anti-human attitudes that exist in some immigrant environments – that is, in the same way that you have done in terms of coercion, assault, circumcision, etc. against women in migrant settings. But it was completely quiet. And then I ask myself, what's the reason for that? Unfortunately, I think the reason is that there were not so many voices to pick up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e503	First, a little visit to the representative Kukkestad, who says that attitudes change as development progresses. If the representative Kukkestad thinks that development is going on out there in blue somewhere, and has nothing to do with what's going on inside this room, he lives in a completely different world than the one I'm dealing with when I'm doing political work. I'm doing political work because I want to be involved and influence and control development. But I record that the representative Kukkestad, who belongs to those who have benefited from the fact that someone has fought for a certain development in relation to homopolitics, does not believe that this development can be controlled from this room. That is to the extent of an honest disagreement. So the representative Knudsen says that we can't adopt ourselves away from attitudes. Then I would like to encourage the representative Knudsen to bring with him a Norwegian history book for high school to his office and read what it says about the work on women's rights and the work on racism, which could perhaps be instructive in many ways, and ask myself how attitudes have changed. Of course, it is not that attitudes are changed by legislative decisions alone. But it's so that the law is also a signal to the citizens of a society about what's going on and where the boundaries go. The party of progress is very eager to use the law as a signal in other contexts. So I can't find the context here, but it's possible it's my lack of reasoning ability. Then I register that the Council of State says in relation to foster homes that no one should be excluded initially. I think that's very positive. I'm assuming that it means that if it's been perceived that the regulation gives a signal that a particular group shouldn't report as foster parents because they're only going to be present in very special cases, it's a misunderstanding, and that the Council's view is that anyone who wants to offer society to set up a child as a foster parent should do it. So society has to take an assessment of who is most appropriate in the individual case. I hope that is correctly understood, and then the Council of State may make a clarification when she has completed the hearing. So it's not that tolerance, freedom of expression and other fundamental values in a democratic society are something of their own. All of these values are values we fight for, values we have to fight for even if we don't want development to reverse. Democracy is no law of nature, democracy is a struggle every day – a struggle for freedom of expression, a struggle for tolerance, a struggle for equal treatment. In this fight we, as politicians, should also take part, both in the form of the legislative decisions we are making, and also in relation to how we choose to act in the public debate. We have a great responsibility in relation to whether we want to participate in a way that promotes equality and tolerance also towards homosexuals and lesbians, or whether we want to sit still and do nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e514	First, a little bit about the new foster home regulations, which have not yet been fully processed. There are people who have responded to the wording of the text. We haven't yet made a decision on how to formulate this. But perhaps the most important thing about the foster home code is that we now say that we should look first in the biological family, then parents and children — even if possible, depending on their age — are to be heard when they are placed in foster homes. This last, that the parents should be heard, of course also with regard to the placement of homosexuals and lesbians, the Council of State that was before me took out of the guidelines that were in force at the time, as well as that some other things were changed without consultation. It just changed because it was guidelines. I now promise a debate into the regulations. I think it's wise, I think it's important, and I wanted this debate. I wanted to do this in public. Then I have said that gay and lesbians can be chosen as foster parents if special consideration so requires. I'm now working on how to formulate it in the regulation. This is a part that has reacted to. But as I said, the most important thing is to look in the biological family, and also that parents and children should be heard. Otherwise, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the debate today. It's a very important debate – it's about human dignity, it's about transparency about gays and lesbians' continuing problems in our society. We also agree on most measures. What is perhaps the difficult debate is when discussing gay and lesbian rights in combination with the rights of the child in some cases. There is political disagreement – it has been and is still in the Stortinget. I think that might be a difficult debate, and we just get to have it. But I'm sure that, in respect of each other's positions, it's important to have a good debate. I want to thank Hall Arnøy again for the interpellation. I think it has been important to have this on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e527	That is the examination of case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e533	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e564	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13.ana.ud2446e575	There is no record.
