ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e51	The representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Morten Højlund, Heidi Sørensen and Finn Kristian Vallersnes, who has been licensed, have again taken up their seats. The representative of Inger S. Enger will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e68	I will, on behalf of Åslaug Haga and myself, present a Document No. 8 proposals for general exemption from the payment of VAT for work on saved buildings and private-owned constructions, or compensation schemes having equivalent effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e73	The representative of Karita Bekkellem Orheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e76	I will, on behalf of Reidar Sandal, Trond Giske, Knut Storberget and myself, present a Document No. Eight proposals on the statutory offer of crisis centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e81	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that this morning's meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the time of regulation. 15.00, until the current map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e104	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government will meet for today's Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik State Council Hilde Frafjord Johnson The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Thorbjørn Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e120	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Although the last EU summit did not agree on a new constitution, it agreed to go further and strengthen EU defence and security cooperation. It shall include, inter alia: a separate entity is established in the NATO headquarters in Brussels, while retaining the planning cell already in the EU Council Secretariat. In the past, we know that an EU-NATO agreement has been reached to ensure that the EU has guaranteed access to NATO resources in the event of a military action being launched by the EU. I would like to ask how the Prime Minister assesses this for Norway, as we come into the situation that we are going to hand out resources through NATO to an organisation that we are not a member of and that now has a significant planning capacity to undertake actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e129	The Brussels Summit last weekend was of great interest. What remained was that they could not agree on voting rules, so that there was no agreement on a new treaty, or a so-called constitution. But it is also part of the picture that they agreed on the organisation of future cooperation in defence and security policy. I think it happened in a way that satisfies Norway, because it's obviously after what they came up with, it's going to be very open channels between the EU and NATO. If the EU had developed strong, more autonomous cooperation in defence and security policy, it would create problems for Norway as a non-EU member, but a member of NATO. But with the mutual exchange of information and the cooperation now adopted by the EU, this was not the way some of us had feared. What was else interesting about the summit was the rivalry between small and large countries. There was a breakdown. I don't think it was particularly uplifting, given the situation of small countries in the EU, what happened at the summit. But the EU has been through crises before. They've resumed processes, and they'll certainly do it this time as well. For Norway, it is essential to ensure our security, that we have strong transatlantic links, which we primarily provide through NATO. I therefore think it was positive that what the EU should also develop in this area should be done in close cooperation with NATO and not in conflict with NATO and America.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e140	I agree that the result was better than what you could have feared. What we have been working for the time being is that there should be open channels between NATO and the EU, and that the EU should not develop its own capacity, with its own defence structure. Much of this we have to thank the United Kingdom for. At the same time, it is now becoming a separate entity in NATO by people from the EU, staff who are going to sit daily and plan for many purposes. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if the Government has given some thought to whether it will be possible for Norway, for example. Getting staff connected to this unit, so that we can constantly be involved in the discussions that are important to us as NATO members, and that of course could also be important to our defence industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e147	So far we haven't concluded that question. The decision is very fresh. We have to study the consequences of that. However, Norway already has a link to EU defence and security cooperation, the ESDP. I think it is important that we should be able to maintain as close as possible contact with the EU on these issues, precisely in order to avoid getting into this gap between Europe and America in defence and security policy, which is so crucial for us. I believe that this will also be an important part of the debate that the various political parties now have to deal with the EU issue in the years to come, where I think both the design of a new institution, if they agree, and the experience of enlargement, not least for the small countries, will be an important part of the debate for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e152	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e155	In fact, I think the Prime Minister minimizes what has happened. EU defence plans have gone significantly faster than most had believed for just one year, when the EU signed the Berlin plus agreement with NATO on the joint use of forces. Not only will Norway be put after the last meeting in Brussels on the sideline in terms of the design and influence of security on our own continent, but a more united Europe in the field of defence can also weaken us in NATO, because it actually affects the internal development of NATO and also transatlantic relations. I would then like to ask whether the Prime Minister does not have greater objectives and ambitions in terms of gaining that influence, both directly in relation to the EU and also in the NATO system, where the EU is now becoming a major power factor in defence policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e162	The government has ambitions that we will have as much influence as possible in the form we now have for the European Union. Now we know that both Marit Nybakk and Thorbjørn Jagland believe that the logical answer to these questions is to become a member of the EU. That conclusion is not all of us who have drawn. However, in the interests of our own defence and security interests, it is important that we get as much intervention in these processes as possible, and can also have as much influence on the EU's work on this as possible. So that ambition should not be in doubt that the government has.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e168	Morten Højlund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e171	For some of us, it is worrying that the EU chooses to strengthen its defence policy cooperation. We see that it goes at the expense of NATO and the cooperation there. We have limited resources in our defense. Once we have given an undertaking to contribute to, inter alia: future EU forces, I would like to ask if the Prime Minister sees this as a problem. And will the Prime Minister confirm that it is our transatlantic relations, and that is the cooperation in NATO, which will be the most important defence policy anchorage for Norway in the future as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e176	The answer to the last question is clear yes. We have two main pillars of Norwegian foreign and security policy. It's the anchoring in NATO, and there's an active commitment to the UN on global issues. For this reason, several of us have been concerned about what can develop within the EU in terms of defence and security cooperation, which can put Norway in a dim position and in a difficult situation. That's why what I'm saying is that I think the outcome of the summit in Brussels in that way was better than one could fear. However, that there will be challenges for Norway to have the greatest possible influence on the European part of cooperation within NATO, there is no doubt. The challenges we must face, and this must also be part of the future EU debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e185	Åslauga Haga – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e188	The EU is developing into a superpower in Europe. Some see it as an advantage, because they are concerned about the foreign policy line in the United States at the moment, and they believe that the EU can become a so-called balancing force for the United States. The centre party believes that this is a short-circuit. What we need, if we're worried about the American foreign policy line, is to integrate the United States into cooperation structures, it's not to help isolate the U.S. further. My question to the Prime Minister is: What does the Prime Minister think about the idea of an EU as a balancing force for the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e197	Firstly, I think one should be a little careful to say that the EU has now become a superpower. I have no idea that the EU has become Europe's United States. There is too much disagreement within the European Union. We saw it at the latest in the context of the Iraq conflict, where the division went across the EU. There was also an important reason why the UN Security Council did not agree to go to war against Iraq. I agree with Mr Haga that the aim must be to integrate, not isolate the United States, and that there must be fruitful cooperation between Europe and the United States on the major international challenges. After all, the Maastricht Agreement has the ambition to have the EU speak with one voice in foreign policy. That is one of the reasons why I have said no to EU membership, because I do not believe that an EU as large as we will now have, neither can nor should speak with one voice in foreign policy. The Iraq conflict confirms that they do not either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e204	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e207	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The only candidate for leadership in the Christian People's Party and Minister of Health in Bondevik's government, Dagfinn Høybräten, has now stated in several interviews that the most important thing for him in the future – I assume that he is speaking on behalf of the government of Bondevik – is the social profile, helping the weakest of the weakest, taking the most account of those sitting at the bottom of the table. How does the Prime Minister view this with the government's policy towards those who are the weakest of the weakest and at the bottom of the table, namely the injecting drug users? The size has adopted the introduction and authorisation of injection rooms, which may reduce overdose deaths and possibly stimulate drug users to seek rehabilitation and treatment. Instead of implementing the Storting decision, the Government trains it and sends the case out to the hearing, asking whether this can be implemented without the necessary health professionals on the basis of which the majority of the Storing has taken its decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e216	There has been disagreement in the issue of injecting rooms between the majority of the population and the Government. I am not going to re-examine that debate, but it is clear that this poses significant problems, including: of a legal nature. As is known, the use of drugs in Norway, with certain exceptions, is in principle prohibited. I even had an interesting meeting yesterday with relatives of drug addicts and the national association they have. And I can at least report from there that their resistance to injection rooms was strong, so this is not a clear wish from those who are affected. But the government is following up the decision of the Storting to propose legislative changes to facilitate spatula. After the matter has now been at the hearing, the Government intends to submit a legislative proposal in the spring session. The aim of a test system of injection rooms is to investigate whether injection rooms could contribute to increasing the dignity of drug users, as Hagen was involved, and to contact between drug users and auxiliaries, the prevention of infections and infection and the reduction of overdose deaths. The purpose is to ensure that the staff in the injection room have to monitor the injection itself in order to be able to intervene and provide first aid in the event of overdoses. They shall also be able to provide general guidance on hygiene and injection practices. Staff shall not assist or assist the individual in the actual injection of heroin. Contact between the addict and the part of the auxiliaries needed by the individual is of course a central task, and those in need should receive the necessary health care. The point is that the assistance and treatment required is not suitable for use in the injection room itself, but should be provided by health professionals and their institutions, in the vicinity of injection rooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e227	If the government had given priority to the weakest of the weakest, these injection rooms would have been established for the longest time. There have been decisions in Stortinget, and a majority have made it very clear what it wants. Then it's really the technique to implement it. We feel that instead of this, there are still contradictions to the decision taken by Stortinget. This reminds us of the long-standing struggle, among other things: The party of progress had to lead, in order to get methadone into the rehabilitation and treatment of the weakest of the weakest, sitting at the bottom of the table, among others. against the battle of the Christian people, and the fight of the right, and at the beginning also of the Workers' Party. It took a long time. When can we expect the Government to take a step forward in precisely what is going to be a profiling matter, as Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbräten claims, when what we have experienced so far is training and trying to counter and prevent something that should have been established for the most time? In particular, these injection rooms were to be established before this Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e236	It is not that the rapid establishment of injection rooms is necessarily the best aid to the weakest of the weakest. I note that Hagen believes this and that the bulk of the population believes that one should have such injection rooms. But I can assure Hagen that it is precisely the consideration of the weakest of the weakest of the government's policies, both in the social and health sectors and in these issues. There is considerable professional disagreement as to whether this really helps the weakest of the weakest. Hagen has no reason to monopolize what is in that way the best solution. But we see what the majority of the population has adopted, and we follow it up. A government must do so in a professionally sound manner, with the necessary consultation rounds and necessary legislative changes. This cannot be left-handed work, either because of the weakest of the weakest, and therefore we follow the procedure I have now explained. This comes to Stortinget as a legislative proposal as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e246	There will be follow-up questions – John I. Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e249	Those who are going to use the spray room are the heaviest of our drug addicts, and preferably women of some age. They are often very seriously ill somatic, with large infections, and these are also some mental disorders. In the spray room, three things need to be taken care of. It's getting an overview and a history of the individual. Infections must be treated there and above all, they must be instructed where they can put these syringes without getting serious infections in the muscles and skeletons. In this injection room, the government has thought that there should only be social professionals and not health professionals. Then I'd say the whole shot room joke is gone. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will he help the government change the assumptions in the consultation note that the injection room should be served by health professionals? That's what's funny about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e256	I do not agree with Mr Alvheim that that is the point. The white man is worthy of the heavy drug addicts that this is all about. It's quite true, as Alvheim says, that many of them also have mental disorders, and the relationship between the drug problem and the psychiatry has been underestimated and has to be evaluated. In fact, I am personally also involved in these questions, and, as I said last night, I had a meeting with relatives of drug addicts. If the problem was as simple as the representative Hagen now gave the impression, I think he and others can do the right thing to talk to, among other things. These. But we're following up on what the majority of the population has adopted. The hearing notes have been drawn up, inter alia: Based on experience from Frankfurt, where 10 years of experience with injection rooms is available. These injection rooms are staffed by social professionals, not health professionals. However, those who need it will be provided with the necessary health care, and it will be solved by referring to health professionals and institutions as close as possible to the injection rooms.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e263	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e266	It may seem that the Government has so much resistance to carrying out tests with injection rooms that it is put up in a way that does not allow the experiment to succeed. Does the Prime Minister not see that a number of those who have heavy drug abuse with drugs also have significant physical plagues and diseases and also mental disorders as a result of long-term abuse? Being able to connect with health professionals becomes a central part of being able to get them out of the abuse. This contact is often not established today, for example: They don't know who's their own firmness. Does the Prime Minister not at all see that a good way to deal with the problems many people have with drug problems can be to ensure that health professionals are on site where they know they want to look for an environment and where they want to establish contact with those who have drug problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e273	The answer to the question of whether the Prime Minister does not see that there is a link between the situation of drug addicts and physical and mental disorders is: Yes, the Prime Minister sees it. The hearing note and the draft law we are preparing are based on it. That's why those who need it are going to get help from health professionals. That will be a basic tone of the proposal we are making. But we're actually based on experience. We build on experience with 10 years of use of injection rooms in, for example: Frankfurt, and how they organized it. Experience in this area does not suggest that health professionals are the wisest in the injection room, but that a quick reference can be made to healthcare professionals and health institutions in the vicinity of the injection room. Therefore, it would be wise to locate the injection rooms near a health institution, so that those in need of that assistance can get the one where health professionals work and have the necessary framework and equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e278	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e281	I would also like to ask the Prime Minister a question. In the evening post recently, the Minister of Finance concluded that it will be the Christmas trade of the time. Under the heading ‘Jugler for increased Christmas trade’, the Minister of Finance states that he is very pleased that people are going out and shopping more before Christmas. This isn't materialism, as he says, this is increased employment. It stands in stark contrast to the very many who cannot attend the purchase party that the Minister of Finance thinks is very good. Among other things, we have over 100,000 people who don't have work, and we have 30,000 new children who have unemployed parents, who can't attend the shopping party that many of us can now attend. The overheated credit cards are a few nonsense. So this is what the Minister of Finance thinks is very good, and he encourages people to do this. My challenge to the Prime Minister is this: Does he think this was very wise said by the Minister of Finance? Does he think this is in line with the message of the Christmas season that we are about to enter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e290	Now the finance minister, and not least the governor of the central bank, was laid out squarely in the press, and was given the opportunity to elaborate this in a debate in Holmgang, well, on TV 2. There it turned out that the Minister of Finance's views as usual were much more nuanced than they were now produced by the representative of Djupedal. In a debate with the head of the Council of Churches, they were, in fact, quite in agreement. The Minister of Finance naturally saw this in an economic policy perspective, that we need to stimulate growth in Norway, among others. to increase the number of job vacancies. In that way he saw the Christmas trade as a contribution. But he had no recommendation to people that they, for example. I would go and borrow over the ears to start an irresponsible consumption in connection with Christmas, which he got clarified in that debate. What we agree with, I know that the Minister of Finance is, that's the Prime Minister, and I also know that the representative of the Djupedal is, is that we need to lift up those who have nothing to travel with to Christmas, the poor. To a large extent, we know who it is, among other things. Long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, some immigrant communities, some of the lone carers and the unemployed. Now there are points of light, even though the situation is far from satisfactory. The government, as the first in Norway, has presented an action plan in the fight against poverty in Norway and has followed up with appropriations in three budgets. Fortunately, the availability has now stagnated and already before the New Year a slight decrease has been shown. We think it may be that the decline will be reinforced, and that more people will come to work next year. It's important for the Co-operation Administration. The fight against unemployment is for us a major issue, and the fight against poverty is for us a major issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e299	The contrast between those who have and those who don't have is, of course, strongest in Christmas. When you see what the Minister of Finance said, I think there were more than me who reacted very strongly to the fact that you should encourage shopping because this will create jobs. This is what we're going to get out of a difficult year, with people getting more money between their hands by the fact that the interest rate has fallen. I have also registered that the Minister of Finance has moderated somewhat afterwards, but his message was crystal clear, and was not misquoted in the evening post. I think this is a very unfortunate signal to send out, instead of sending out what should have been the signal beyond Christmas, namely that we should take care of each other, and that we should be more active for those who have little, rather than that we who have, should shop even more because there will be some kind of job in the merchandise trade. My question to the Prime Minister was whether he thought this was in line with the message of Christmas. I can imagine challenging the Prime Minister again: Does he think this was particularly wise? Should not the Minister of Finance express himself differently?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e306	I agree with the representative of Djupedal that the most important thing about Christmas, in addition to the message of Christmas itself, which is why we celebrate Christmas, is to help those who have little. The representative of Djupedal must know that we in the Government are concerned about this. We can do a lot of work there, including as individuals, and not least many non-governmental organisations. It's done. It lies on my heart, and I think it should be the main message. It is quite right that the contrast is perceived the greatest in Christmas between those who have much, and those who have little. There's a lot of pain and a lot of solitude in many people during Christmas. We can all do something to relieve it. Besides that, I don't see any reason to give any character. The fact that we can buy for Christmas and enjoy our closest with sensible gifts doesn't have to be in contrast to helping those who have little.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e314	There will be follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e317	There was someone who didn't get a room in the inn a Christmas. In Norway, unfortunately, there are also such things. Now Bondevik has been prime minister for many years, and so there are still some 6,000 people who don't have their own homes and thanks. Norway has become richer, and the same number are homeless. So the prime minister says that everyone can do something. Then I have to say that I wonder why the Prime Minister cannot do anything for the homeless. That's one of the things that we can actually decide. It's a physical thing. We can build homes and make sure that people at least have a home and the dignity of their own home. How can the Prime Minister, with this fact, explain that in the next year's budget he has actually cut off the subsidies that would make it possible to build more cheap dwellings, so that people with poor advice could at least get a home?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e326	Before the Prime Minister is given the floor, the President will recall one of the main driving rules for the spontaneous question, that follow-up questions should be relevant to the main question. We will move very easily into a quite wide field if the follow-up questions continue in this direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e329	It's not right that the representative Karin Andersen is trying to create, that the government is not concerned about or doing anything for the homeless. It is contrary to actual circumstances. We have implemented a project in relation to this problem, with several major cities as project municipalities. 27 different actions are planned or implemented in the seven project municipalities. They range from the whole system of services and housing to specific housing measures, targeting drug users and people with mental disorders in particular. Strengthening housing subsidies is also part of the poverty action plan, as we have done in the 2004 State budget. The non-residents shall have a first priority in the use of these funds. We are scheduled to submit a housing report in January. In this, an overall strategy to combat and prevent homelessness, which I fully agree with Karin Andersen, is unworthy. It shows that the government is actually doing something and is committed to this problem. More could have been said about this, but now I realize that time has run out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e334	Tore Nordtun – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e337	The contrasts are many, and being able to raise those who need it the most is important to us. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether it is not worrying that, according to official information from the Bank of Norway, we now see a black economy in Norway of between 80 and 100 billion kroner, and whether the Government does not think it is a priority task to get this economy out of hand. Of these 80-100 billion kroner, we could have spent a lot of money building schools and hospitals. Will it be a priority task for the Government to gain control of and get this black economy off?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e344	The President will continue to say that we are moving further and further from the main question, but it is soon Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e347	We agree that it is at least Christmas soon. That's why we can be a little liberal, and I'm going to answer this question of follow-up – I almost don't remember what the starting point was. The answer is yes. It's a priority task to fight black economy. I've seen the same numbers that Tore Nordtun refers to, and it's clear that there's huge resources hidden here. Likely, much of this is exempt from taxation, and it deprives society of large resources that we could have spent on many good purposes, such as Tore Nordtun mentioned examples. The fight against economic crime and the black economy is a priority of the Government. Former governments have done it, we want to do it. It's a pretty tough fight, because there's people with quite raw tools running in this market. Nordtun can be sure that we will continue that fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e356	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e359	As is known – within the framework of the legislation – follow-up questions may also concern the answer to the question raised by the representative of Djupedal. And in his reply, the Prime Minister said that, to this extent, there was a need to stimulate the economy and demand in order to secure more jobs, as a justification for what the Minister of Finance should have said – thus stimulating demand to secure jobs. But that's the exact opposite of what's been the whole rationale of the government's economic policy in recent years; it's been tightening up demand to get interest rates down that's been the tone-setting. Does what the Prime Minister now says, that he is more committed to what the Progress Party has said, that it would actually make sense also through fiscal policy to stimulate demand somewhat, now that we have over 100,000 unemployed – in a limited form, which I suppose the Minister of Finance is thinking about? Is this new tone from the Prime Minister, that we could have given some tax incentives to stimulate demand, we could have actually given more money to road construction and infrastructure, and we could not have increased the proportion of those who suffer and need medicines and healthcare?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e364	The answer is that we stimulate demand in the state budget. But there's a difference between shaving and cutting off the chin, and that's the last part of the progression. We're doing it at a dosage that doesn't make us start a price and interest rate carousel again, because then we would have ruined the whole point of stimulating demand. We get more unemployed if we increase the cost level. So here one has to find the balance in terms of stimulating demand, so that it can create new jobs. After all, we cannot waste money, as the Progress Party does, so that prices, wages and interest are rising again, because then we are removing both the jobs we would create and even more. That balance has been found by the Government. The party of progress disagrees with this and lives in a different reality. We have to find out. But we see that our policy is working. We've gotten our interest rate down, we've gotten our dollar rate down, and now we're starting to get our unemployment down. It is a result of the government's policy, not of the Party's surrender policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e370	The President will draw attention to the fact that Hagen's interpretations of the Rules of Procedure on follow-up matters do not exactly have the President's agreement. But it's okay to try. Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e375	It's a question of who's going to increase purchasing power. This year's Christmas gift from the Government to people with poor health is that the excess that we pay when we go to the doctor or buy drugs increases by about 600 million. kr. It's actually gotten smaller than the government wanted it to increase by. There are people with poor health, who also like to have bad advice, who pay most of this bill and the extra – as I would call it – the health tax. An alternative could be to increase the peak tax by the same amount. That would mean 700 kroner for each of us who make over 350 000 kroner, and that's the group that's got 80 pst. by the tax payable by that government. Why is it easier to increase the health tax for this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e380	If you think about the tax relief, you don't have 80 pst. have gone to those who are now dropping top taxes, to business and to businesses to secure jobs. Several parties have said that the top tax should be a top tax, not a tax on ordinary people. It was becoming so, and therefore the Government has found it right to adjust the rates, so that it is still what it should be, namely a top tax and not a tax on more common income. In the case of promissory notes, the ceiling is now $1,550 for next year. That's an increase of $200, which is an increase of just under $20 per cent. month – there are two copies of the daily newspaper. I guess you can live with that, especially given that if you had price- and pay-adjusted balances after they were introduced in the 1980s, the ceiling would now have been around NOK 2 000. So we're going to keep it a lot lower, and more and more people are going to get under it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e387	Then we are in goal – we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e390	It is possible that there is someone here that mixes line change and question time. I have a question for the Minister of Development. I assume that the Church's Emergency Aid and the Youth Organization Change Maker have shed light on an old problem, simply debt that dictators charge their countries, illegitimate debt. Most people have thought that it's almost an uncontrollable problem to define what's bad and how to deal with it. But all of a sudden, the U.S. discovered that Saddam Hussein has charged Iraq with a huge debt, and squabbles, it's not so hard to try to remove illegitimate debt anyway. Then my question becomes to the Minister for Development: Has the Minister for Development in Norway planned to follow up the American initiatives and look at the kind of debt that is simple, now that it has emerged in a new context?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e399	As the representative of Blankenborg, I have also noticed that this has been a certain price adjustment, to say the least, in American fiscal and debt policies from one to two years back and until now. Nevertheless, I would like to stress from our side that the complexity of the use of the terms illegitimate debt and dictatorial debt is so great that it is less operable, at least in concrete debt negotiations. What we have done from the Norwegian side is to focus on some elements. One of them is post-conflict situations, countries that come out of a conflict. In some cases, there have been debt withdrawals in ‘ilgitime relationships’, where there has also been the type of authoritarian leaders involved. We have been committed to providing shy debt cancellation arrangements for post-conflict countries, countries that are to enter into a new reconstruction. Here Norway has contributed through proposals at the Paris Club, and we have also contributed specifically to debt. I think it's right to break down some of these more stencilical expressions and look at what's possible, practical and realizable to implement. If you were to operate with the kind of stencil decisions, e.g.: In relation to Iraq and Saddam Hussein, it can be stated that the amount involved is, as a rule, greater than the total debt of the poorest developing countries of the world to all creditors. It tells us a little bit about the dimensions of this, and that we must therefore also approach the issue of Iraq and the negotiations at the Paris Club with some caution. On the part of the Government, we would like to mention the issue of illegitimate debt, including dictatorial debt, in an updated and adjusted debt plan in relation to the 1998 Grand Duchy, in the new year, and we will come back with more information to the Grand Duchy before Easter on the same issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e408	For us, it's not so important whether it's an illegitimate debt or a dictatorial debt, but that one might do what the United States suddenly found out they could do, and go out on an individual country that is indebted to debt that is charged under dictatorship, and that there might be good reason to try to get an international order for the new democratic regime to get its armshake. I understand the Minister of Development that it is also the strategy of the Government to take this country by country, but that one has a focus on debt charged under dictatorship.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e413	What we're going to do is look at this on the case by case basis, country by country, without using stencil expressions. Of course, we will be prepared to go further into this whole problem area through what we present in the up-to-date debt plan and also in the main message. But then we have to focus on the poorest countries, and what we are very afraid of is that some middle-income countries and some countries that are actually able to cope with the burden of debt should be those who run away with all the debt, and that it is actually the poorest countries that are being harmed here. We have not completed the debt cancellation mechanism for the poorest countries. It's job number. 1 for us before we go into any other, shy scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e418	There will be follow-up questions – Bjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e421	There is no doubt that we are achieving results in the field of debt. To take an example, we have the export credit system. We know that approx. 20 pst. Of all the total debt in the world, 400 billion dollars, lies here. What we know is that the devices here are made so that they guarantee that those who have exported goods will always get their money, while the poor countries will be left in debt. Where we have to achieve something is relative to the fact that these countries are going to get out of debt, even if they have bought the goods. But is it possible to imagine that Norway can work for an international indebted court? There have been several proposals that we should have an economic security council. Is Norway taking any initiative in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e428	This is precisely what the representative Jacobsen said, which was the background to the fact that it was a government led by Bondevik, and also with me as the Council of State in this area, who took the great historical settlement with what I have called the temple in Norwegian history, namely the maritime sports campaign. We took that settlement, and we are gradually following up the debt plan and debt management adopted by the Storting in 1998-1999. In terms of new and exciting initiatives, both on illegitimate debt and on debt courts, we are open to receiving creative ideas. Once again, I'm busy with two relationships. One is that as a creditor we should be credible, and that the proposals we promote in international debt negotiations should not lead to us pushing ourselves out, but that they are realizable and possible to get through, so that we ourselves do not lose influence in the same negotiations. The second concerns the poorest and most indebted countries. In such a perspective, we are willing to consider different proposals, but that must be the main consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e436	Morten Højlund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e439	Let me first comment that I think it is great that the Workers' Party and SV are now committed to this. The Progress Party was the only party that chose to address this issue during the budgetary procedure. In the context of the large aid budget, the Progress Party considers that there are modest funds allocated to debt relief in general. Does the Council of State agree with me that granting debt relief is one of the most effective ways of providing assistance, and that this may be what these countries need in order to get on their own feet again?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e446	I noticed in the budget position the attitude of the Progress Party towards debt. It is very good that the Progress Party attaches such great importance to this. We support the government's budget proposals for both 2003 and 2004 and believe that they provide us with the necessary opportunity to be a driver and to address the countries in such a situation. What I'm very aware of is the financing of indebtedness. Our own debt plan in relation to Norway's claims on other countries as a creditor is that we do not finance it by withdrawing the aid budget. It takes place through a separate budgetary operation. We are, I think, the only creditor country that does it this way. The most important thing is not to charge the aid budget for the debt that others have for us, and for which we give indebtedness. The part relating to the Debt Loan Fund is multilateral assistance that we contribute to. We think that's enough what we're doing there. But both are necessary. What I'm very concerned about is that we should not delay the aid budgets in terms of debt cancellations, for all time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e457	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e460	My question goes to the Prime Minister, and it concerns the fight against poverty in Norway. The Prime Minister has already become visibly annoyed when the Central Party or others show that we are not satisfied with the Government's efforts in that field. But when the Church's Bymition reports that record numbers are asking for help now before Christmas, and the Salvation Army confirms the same impression – and there are new groups that now need support – does not the Prime Minister himself sometimes think that the Government could at least do a little more in this field? I'm going to give him two challenges: if child welfare could benefit young people also in the poorest families, those who ask for social assistance, it would be an important contribution, like if single-person households outside the pension system also came under the support rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e469	This is a matter that I think the representative Meltveit Kleppa has a meritorious commitment to, and I have it myself. It is quite clear that a government and a growing slowly can always do both a little more and a lot more. But I would like to insist that the Cooperation Government is the first government to – otherwise on the basis of the admirable message that then Social Minister Meltveit Kleppa presented to the Central Government – have made a plan and followed up with appropriations with targeted actions to this end. We've increased the level now, together, almost $1 billion, and the continuation of the money we also spent in the first few years, along with the escalation, now we've allocated approx. NOK 2 billion more over the three years of the Cooperation Government compared to the previous one. We have done something about children in poor families, including increasing the children’s supplement to unearned pensioners and increasing the child’s rates in the guidance guidelines on economic social assistance. In addition to that, we have increased grants for light and heat, and we have introduced measures in the labour market for long-term social workers and measures for the qualification of immigrants. We have improved the housing support system, the transitional support for lone dependants and the follow-up services for the homeless. We have also put in place some measures in the field of education and social inclusion, and we have not least strengthened the work on drug problems. So all in all, I think we've done more, but we're going to continue in next year's budget as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e480	In the last year, 20,000 more disabled people have fallen into unemployment. Housing policy must be left more to the market. We're going to get a more economical social security network from next year, unfortunately with the Labour Party's votes this time. The municipalities were supposed to be at the forefront to improve public services, but many of them now have to cut settings and support schemes to some of the most difficult. It is not because the municipalities have not received more money, but because they have to spend the money to cover additional pension costs and failing tax receipts. The Central Party is very concerned about the future in this field, because the Prime Minister and his government have promised additional 12 billion dollars in tax bills. Does he mean that there are groups in this society who could pay more into the community, so that he could strengthen his efforts against poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e487	The answer to this last point is yes. We are going to have a new review of the tax system in connection with the Government's decision-making process. And there are elements in it that can give a fairer taxing, even of capital income. We also need to promote a housing announcement in the new year, such as: will include measures to assist the homeless, a group we have also talked about in the past. This government has shown that it is possible to combine tax relief, especially for businesses, by increasing efforts targeted at groups who are poor. So it's going to be possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, and this government has shown it. We will continue the fight against poverty in Norway, and in recent years the allocations to groups of poor people will continue to escalate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e496	There will be follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e499	It is important to look at the figures for how we distribute wealth in a very rich country like Norway. SV has gone through what Bondevik has proposed for 2002, 2003 and 2004, and the figures clearly show that he has proposed non-social cuts of over DKK 6 billion. So, in addition to that, the tax on dividends, the house tax, the top tax and the option tax of NOK 4.9 billion have been facilitated. That means we've distributed wealth in Norway even more crooked than we've done before. So just last week we cut 266 million. in the allocation to those who need vocational rehabilitation, i.e. those who are sick and without work. It is very difficult to get to grips with how the Bondevik government actually intends to solve the poverty problem, because the reality is that there will be more poor and many more rich.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e506	I can't go well with the calculations that Karin Andersen now presented, that we've done unsocial cuts of NOK 6 billion. Many of the changes we have proposed include: in the case of rehabilitation, the main purpose is to bring people back to work faster – the line of work, which I thought was also provided by SV. There has been an important background for several of the changes proposed. Nor will I call a reduction in the house tax a tax relief for the richest. That's a good part, for example. pensioners, with a relatively poor economy affected by both housing taxes and property taxes. I'm concerned about dithering, and I'm concerned that we're going to use the tax and tax system to get people back to work. Unemployment is perhaps one of the biggest social problems we have today. It has also been behind the government's tax policy that we need to reduce the burden on businesses in order to secure jobs and create new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e514	Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e517	Yeah, it's enough that when the government is going to sum up what it's doing for those who are at the bottom of the table, it has to sum up what has been done over several years, to get over the billion, while we find billions every year for those who are doing well. 80 pst. the tax burden on persons has gone to those who pay top taxes. The Prime Minister calculated that the increase in the excesses, as I called the Government's Christmas gift to people with poor health, is only $20 a month, yes, it's actually only 70 dollars a day, for that matter. The option of increasing the peak tax would amount to NOK 2 a day – for those who have good advice. Most of those who get an increase of 70 cents a day have poor advice. So the government has chosen to help those who make more than 350,000 dollars. They could have done this differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e524	Now Morten Lund makes the mistake that he makes it so that anyone who needs medication or other things that come under self-interest is poor. Of course that's not right. Self-employment rate applies to all, regardless of income. In fact, the equity ratio has gradually decreased since it was introduced, for a price and salary adjustment had promised a self-employment interest today of about approx. NOK 2000 There have also been hundreds of thousands of new ones coming under the roof. Therefore, I do not think it is the most socially targeted policy that self-interest should in fact remain lower and lower. So when it comes to top taxes, we have to make sure that top taxes are a top tax and not a general income tax. This has been the background for the Government’s adjustment, and that, for example: The working party also promised to adjust it before the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e533	We're raising another main question, but there won't be any follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e536	I have a question for the Prime Minister. Norway is setting a sad record. We are getting the highest drug consumption after the war, both in terms of legal alcohol consumption and illicit alcohol consumption, and also in terms of illicit drug use, especially among younger people. Consumption has grown, and last year and this year it seems to land at the highest level after the war. This results in increased problems in relation to violence and crime. We also get increased social pressure problems, especially against children, made visible in front of the festival we are now facing, Christmas, by the fact that hundreds of thousands of children, according to a survey by Alko-Kutt published yesterday, are horrors of Christmas because of their parents' alcohol consumption. How does the Prime Minister assess the situation of Norwegian drug use? And will it be appropriate for the Government to put in place additional measures, in particular to reduce the total consumption of alcohol?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e545	I share the concerns of the representative of Storberget, and I think the alcohol problem in Norway is undervalued. For those of us who from time to time try to engage in it, and also advocate restrictive measures, it will be, among other things. in a part of the media, almost ridiculed. I think this is due to a lack of understanding among many in Norway because this represents a huge human problem, among other things. for the hundreds of thousands of children who are now shying down to Christmas because of the unwitting use of drugs by their parents, and for the economic problems that this actually represents for society. This is why in Norway — yet — we still have a relatively restrictive alcohol policy compared to most other countries. But it's still those who are trying to make it as liberal as in southern Europe, and think it's going to solve the problems. But we know that in southern Europe, alcohol problems are even greater, but they are often hidden, among other things. in the case of a very large number of sick people who are victims of alcohol abuse. I am in favour of continuing to pursue a restrictive policy, that we should maintain as high a level of charges as is possible for us in relation to the pressure we are under from other countries. We should have a debate, including: in the EU, about the constant reduction in the alcohol tax as one sees and that reproduces with a domino effect up in Europe and into the Nordic countries, and that puts us under pressure. I can confirm to the representative of Storberget that the government is working on measures to counteract this constant increase in alcohol consumption, which is a huge social problem. Some changes to the alcohol law will be proposed, and we will introduce several preventive measures, which will be presented by the Minister of Social Affairs in a short-term consultation note. We can then have an even more concrete debate on this. I know that the representative of Storberget will be a positive and insightful co-player in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e554	I understand that we are very much in agreement with the actual production. One of the problems in Norwegian alcohol policy is that the effective national instruments are under considerable pressure. Many people would think that we are difficult to maintain the means that have actually worked. In particular, the exceptional, high level of charges and some other instruments of alcohol policy have been effective, but are under considerable pressure. I am pleased that the Government will look at new measures. But are there plans to establish a strategy in relation to Europe in particular, so that European countries can be affected and contribute to a reduction in the pressure on Norway and Scandinavia, as the Finnish Presidency called for in the EU in 1999, and as the Swedish Presidency later mentioned? Does the Norwegian Government have any strategy in relation to Europe in this respect?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e563	We're working on it. I have personally spoken about this with Prime Minister Persson in Sweden, who has the same concern that we are now expressing. In my view, alcohol policy has been too unconscious in many European countries, where the goal has been to make alcohol as easily as possible and as cheap as possible. And the side effects are big. So low charges from southern Europe have been propagated. Germany is under pressure, and then they put the charges down. Then Denmark comes under pressure, and then they put them down. Then Sweden comes under pressure, and then they put them down. And then we're under pressure. This is a very unfortunate domino effect. It must be counteracted. We have therefore now contacted Sweden, which is a member of the EU, to see if we can do something together, and whether Sweden and other EU countries can address this in an EU context. It is quite right, as Storberget says, that we have some effective national instruments and that they are under pressure. It is not a goal to remove them, but we must have more European countries with them if we are to be able to keep them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e572	The time for the oral questioning process is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e587	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes, and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from main speakers for each party group, and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. So far, 23 speakers have been recorded within the recommended scheme. In addition, the President will propose that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e598	The speeches by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence are likely to bring together broad support in the Storting. This is important. Because it is a serious matter to send Norwegian soldiers into such sharp conflicts. It cannot be done by a mere majority of the Stortinget. The following seem clear: Norway will continue its involvement in the Balkans, Afghanistan and Iraq. The presence in Iraq will be assessed at the next crossroads, and must include: is in the context of other commitments Norway had to have. It is important that we have a continuous assessment of where we can do the best for ourselves, and that we contribute where the obligations are greater. One of the major commitments Norway has is Africa, as expressed when we took the seat of the UN Security Council. Of course, if there is a peace agreement for Sudan in the near future, Norway must participate in peacekeeping forces there. It is important that the Storting has a clear basis for the operations we are involved in on an independent basis. Only if we here in the Chamber and the Government have clear thoughts about why we're participating can we have hope that the people understand it and support the decisions we make. I believe that this has been done too little to bring forward the threat posed by international terrorism. The last report that the UN has published just a few days ago is frightening reading. From the domestic debate one can often get the impression that if the world community, with the United States at the head, had not gone to any countermeasures and left the states from which the terrorist groups operate, to be at peace, we would not have had any terrorist actions. However, this is not correct. One of the first major terrorist acts in the 1990s took place in Mogadishu, Somalia. Somalia was left to itself. Somalia is today a so-called colliding country, a country with no central power. It is therefore a place of refuge for international terrorism and a destabilising and devastating factor in all of East Africa. And on the other hand, precisely because the international community has been willing to commit itself and demand that the regime in Sudan be a support for terrorist groups, and that the regime oppresses the people in the south, we can now have peace in Sudan – which will have a very positive effect in the same East Africa. This will include, inter alia: be capable of combating the mental LRA Geril in northern Uganda. It is probably true that much of terrorism has its origins in the darkest hooks in the Muslim world, borne by angry and bitter Muslims. But it is also part of the truth that, without the mujahedin movement against the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan being supported and cultivated by American, Saudi and Pakistani intelligence, these terrorist groups would not have been able to build up the knowledge, self-confidence and discipline necessary to start a global jihad, which we now have. It is therefore important to learn from mistakes that have been made. It's also important to understand why people are recruiting for terror. Probably those who led the construction of the terrorist networks often have a completely different background and completely different and personal motives than those who allow themselves to recruit for the suicide operations. Bin Laden is driven by a personal hatred towards the West and against the royal family in Saudi Arabia. When young people all over the Middle East are able to recruit for his actions, there is likely to be a connection with something else: social frustration and desperation. In the 1980s and 1990s, the Middle East and Gulf countries have been at a standstill economically, while the population has exploded. Little or none of these countries’ oil resources have been used to provide young people, growing youth, education and work. They have no hope of a life before death, so they seek to become martyrs to get a life after death. When their rage approaches the West, and in particular the United States, it is largely due to the double morality and humility they feel the Muslims have been subjected to. The great Lebanese writer Amin Maalouf describes this in his book «The Importance of Corstogens for the Arabs»: ‘In a Muslim world that has been attacked and colonized throughout history, there can be no stopping a sense of persecution and in some fanatical souls the feeling of obsession. The Arab orientation still sees the West as a natural enemy. Against this enemy, any hostile action, whether political, military or oil policy, is just a reversion. And there can be no doubt that the breach between these two worlds arose with the Crusades, which the Arabs today see as a rape." The authoritarian and medieval regimes in the region have managed to stay in power on the basis of this Arab nationalism. They have managed to channel the frustration of the people towards the West, and especially Israel, rather than against themselves. These include: therefore it is necessary to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. It is for the Arabs the Crown Example of Western Double Morality, which the Arab leaders can use at any time to whip up the mood of the population. On the Arab side, reality is showing itself this way: the United States and the West, with the support of the United Nations Security Council, attacked Iraq for occupying Kuwait, while the occupation of the Palestinian soil continues for the fourth decade in a row without intervention by the international community. On the part of Israel, reality is different: the country was set up legitimately by the UN, but the Arab countries have never recognised their right to exist – on the contrary. They have repeatedly attacked Israel. Israel has constantly insisted on keeping the Jordan Valley as a buffer zone, fearing that Iraq would march through Jordan and attack Israel through the Jordan Valley. I say this because it is from these perspectives it is important to bring Iraq against democracy and stability. Such Iraq could be the start of reforms in other countries in the region. This could be the case, in particular, if there were peace between Israel and the Palestinians. Then the Arab rulers can no longer address the frustration of the people against Israel. The eyes of the people are directed at themselves. If Iraq no longer poses a security threat, we must rightly demand that Israel put an end to the occupation in the Jordan Valley and the rest of the West Bank. This is, in my view, the reason why it is necessary to put the fight behind the war against Iraq itself. It's taken place. Saddam Hussein is gone. We must help bring the country against civilised rule, stability and democracy. This is also why we have to keep the United States in mind. The United States has a huge military and economic strength, and that's precisely why the country is not always responsive to how others think and feel. We have seen it in Iraq, that the freedom given to people as a result of the military invasion was easily overshadowed when the negative feelings of the Iraqis were mobilized by insensitive acts and arrogant decisions of the Americans. Then the feeling of crusade and occupation can be revived. This is where the Labour Party believes the Government must use its influence, which it has just because we contribute constructively, precisely because we support our friends. We must also have the will to say from when we believe that they are doing wrong and are not sensitive enough. We must demand that the civil process of writing the constitution and holding elections in Iraq be the responsibility of the United Nations, so that no one can create the impression of American dictatorship. Reconstruction contracts must all be able to compete in such a way that the Iraqis do not get the impression of economic occupation. We must demand that the United States follow up on what was promised, namely to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, so that Muslims see that there is equality for international law. We have a unique opportunity to contribute to the creation of a new Middle East, a region that has created war and terrorism for half a century, and which is also now the basis of a global jihad, which can affect us all. These included: This UN Security Council strongly urged the Member States to contribute to the stabilisation of Iraq. That is also why Afghanistan is important, so that it should not continue exporting terrorism, among other things. to the Middle East. Norway should follow up, and we should take our commitments. I am pleased that I believe that there is a majority in this Chamber in order that we should do just that, not just be constructive, but that we should also be critical when necessary in relation to our friends.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e644	I would like to take a concrete step in Mr Thorbjørn Jagland's speech. He said that in our past and current commitment to peace in Sudan, we have an obligation to participate with personnel in future peace operations. Does the representative Jagland think that Norway should automatically participate with forces/personnel everywhere we work for peace in other ways? What could it have in order to undertake future peace-brokering missions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e649	I don't think we should automatically contribute forces, but I think we have to think through – when we take on our commitment – that something can come after, or at the end of the day. It would be wrong, in my opinion, to have a 30-year commitment to Sudan, and then when there's peace, we're going to say that we have nothing more to do there -- we're going to leave that to others. Then we shouldn't have had the strong commitment over as many years as we've had. It's necessary, I think, to plan to follow up our commitments, all the time, so that there is a whole and credibility in what we do. But it's not automatically. What is automatic is that we support the decisions taken by the UN Security Council, even if we do not have to follow-up with military, personnel, etc. efforts, but we cannot go against the decisions taken by the Security Council, especially under Article 7 of the Charter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e654	As I understand it, the Labour Party will reconsider its support for the presence of Norwegian military forces in Iraq. They'll reconsider that in the springtime. I want to ask the leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee: what should have been achieved in Iraq in the next six months, so that the Labour Party will go in to extract the Norwegian solar data? Can it be e.g. Is it true, as he said in his speech, that the United States has said that one should take this seriously with a regional democratisation process? It turns out they haven't done much of it so far. Can it be e.g. Is the United States going to re-examine its relationship with Saudi Arabia, which is one of the closest partners? Can anything happen in the democratisation process there? Is there such thing to be fulfilled if the Workers' Party is to be able to support withdrawal?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e661	It is not right to say that we should reconsider our provisional support for Iraq. We support the commitment we have in Iraq – we agreed on that. At the same time, we say that we need to continuously evaluate the efforts we make in the different places in the world, based on the commitments we have. Of course, we have to look at the benefits of what we're doing. If it turns out that it has no effect, it is something that both government and magnification of course have to consider. We have these six-month term periods, where we have the opportunity to review the situation. It's important that we don't take the angle of incidence that we're now adding a plan to draw ourselves out, but on the contrary, the commitment we have uses to get to something. We have a unique chance, precisely because we're contributing, among other things. to make the Americans do more for peace throughout the region, and, as Bjørn Jacobsen was in, to push on the democratization process in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e668	When he was Minister for Foreign Affairs, he had, as far as I know, a Secretary-General who is now Secretary-General of the Refugee Council – that is not so important. But this Secretary-General is one of many in the Norwegian organisational life who are very concerned about the blending of humanitarian and military aid as expressed in the Norwegian effort in Iraq. It is also believed that this combination would make the work of humanitarian organisations more difficult. My question is whether the representative, Mr Jagland, agrees with his former Secretary of State that this combination of humanitarian and military efforts is problematic. Or does he think that almost the entire Norwegian voluntary organisation life is fundamentally wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e675	I believe that it has been a weakness that you have mixed up using words, which has confused what this is all about. But I feel that the Norwegian military involvement is a military mission, where you also carry out tasks that are absolutely necessary for, among other things. to make humanitarian efforts. Part of the task is humanitarian, but there are military personnel associated with military departments. For example, if you want to have some of the definitions that some people agree with, you could do. have not operated as we do in Kosovo. One important task in Kosovo is simply that Norwegian soldiers drive Serbian children to school every day in armoured cars, stand guard outside the school and drive them back, otherwise they are shot down on the school road. What kind of task is that? Is that a military or humanitarian task? I'd say it's both. One of the reasons the Norwegian soldiers in Lebanon were so popular was that they got money from the Norwegian state to implement civil, humanitarian projects. This is one of the reasons why Norwegian soldiers are so sought after, precisely because we do both parts and help the civilian population.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e680	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e684	First of all, a little comment on the line change between the representative Jacobsen and Thorbjørn Jagland. I was a little surprised at Jacobsen's question, because as I understood the proposal that is on the table from Kristin Halvorsen on behalf of SV, SV also assumes that the Norwegian involvement in Iraq will continue for the first six months. The proposal is, moreover, the closest thing to participation in the exercise that can be called political dry swimming. It is a proposal that, as far as I can see, is completely free of substance. Many discussions are taking place in today’s Norway about political leaders staying in think-tanks, possibly moving in the direction of think-tanks, possibly declaring that they do not see any need to take such places at all. As far as I can understand, it is a good advice to politicians in all countries, including the Kingdom of Norway, that they take permanent residence in the think-box. We live in a world situation that is new and without parallels in history. We are living in a situation where the threats to the security of each country do not have the character that we have been used to thinking about, namely the threat of invasion of territory. We are living today in a completely new, I don't want to say safety situation, it's more striking to say that we are living in a completely new uncertainty situation. This uncertainty situation covers initially all parts of the world and all nations, and it can very often be difficult to see a rational way in which dramatic estimates of randomly selected groups of people are seen at all times. The new thing about the threats in today's world is that you choose goals according to the principle of arbitraryness, i.e. There is no choice to attack someone who is likely to be responsible for anything; it is chosen with a single objective in mind, namely to attract the greatest possible attention and to create the greatest possible uncertainty and fear, in order to achieve its policy objectives. It is dangerous to participate, and very often the impression is that this is what characterises the approach of Norwegian debaters both when discussing Norwegian presence in Iraq, Norwegian presence in Afghanistan and Norwegian presence in the Balkans. Yeah, sure, it's dangerous to participate. Of course, it is dangerous for the personnel who have to carry out the missions. It is also dangerous for those politicians who take responsibility for taking decisions, because decisions that later turn out to be wrong are at risk. But there's one thing that's guaranteed to be even more dangerous, and that's to volunteer: to participate in the symbolic exercise that has many deleted role models in history, and that consists in washing hands publicly, as often as possible, and in that way demonstrate that I won't get involved, at least I don't have any co-responsibility for what's going to happen. Most of us have a kind of spinal cord reflex that moves in the direction of exactly that kind of attitude, because in that way you seem to have no responsibility. There is no country in today's world that can rightly take that position and disclaim its co-responsibility for the new uncertainty situation. We very often place emphasis on political change in this room, most recently in the spontaneous question hour about an hour ago, that Norway is one of the richest countries in the world. It probably also implies in this area that there are some obligations that are relatively larger than those of other countries. It also means that the defence we have in Norway in terms of equipment and professionalism can be compared to the best available in today’s world. There is also a resource to manage it not only for the benefit of our own immediate interests at all times and the interests of our neighbourhoods, it is actually a resource that we have a moral obligation to use where the need is greatest. During this last year, we have had many debates in this Chamber on the crisis around Iraq. There has been a cross-referencing melody that, for Norway, it is highly desirable that we follow what is cliché-likely called the UN track. But it sometimes strikes me that when it comes to the matter, the interest is to follow the decisions taken in the UN Security Council, depending on the agreement of the decision itself, because otherwise it is not very interesting to follow it up anymore. With regard to the situation in Iraq today, there are two very clear and unanimous resolutions by the UN Security Council. The first was adopted on 22 May of this year and the second was adopted in October of this year. In both of these resolutions, the UN Security Council calls on all UN Member States to contribute to the stabilisation of the situation in Iraq. In the last resolution, dated 16 October, the holder of the No. 1511, it is even used in such strong words that the UN urges the Member States, under the mandate given by the United Nations, to contribute – and it is explicitly said – including with military forces, to the stabilisation of the situation in Iraq. There is absolutely no doubt about the mandate of international law for Norway's presence in Iraq. Like the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have to say that one of the most confusing and confusing debates we have held this year in Norway is the debate on the key strings'military' and 'humanitarian' in this context. When the UN has explicitly told all Member States that there is an obligation here to contribute both to the necessary military forces to ensure peace and stability in Iraq and with the necessary humanitarian efforts to take care of the civilian population in Iraq, it is almost incomprehensible that it is possible to construct the problems that have been filled with fissures of newspaper campaigns. Sometimes you can get the impression that the exercise we're best at in this country is solving constructed problems. It can be fun, of course, but the boring thing about that exercise is that it usually happens to the distortion of the real problems, and in such a way that it interferes with the proportions in a very fundamental way. The statements made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence, in my opinion, are reliable and reassuring in how we manage our resources in order to help to reduce the uncertainty situation in the world. And it is with pleasure that I conclude by noting that there was nothing in the post that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee just held, which I cannot sign 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e718	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e721	As the Minister of Defense, it is said that our engineering team has made a significant effort for civilian Iraqis by building a bridge and repairing a bridge, they have secured and cleaned up two schools, and they have destroyed 35,000 explosives. Let's see what they've done per day. On December 8th, the number of explosive chambers was destroyed by the engineering company over 20,000. We look at other civilian Iraqi miners trained by Norwegian People's Aid, so far they have cleared 150,000 explosive chambers in and around Baghdad. This programme was operational only 18 days before the Norwegian engineering forces arrived in Basra. Doesn't this also show the Right that we would have gotten a lot more for the money by investing in voluntary private organizations, while at the same time trying to get into the dilemma of perhaps being part of the occupying power?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e728	I'm a little surprised by the question, because as I pointed out in my post, the SV's own proposal requires the Norwegian engineering team to remain in Iraq for the first six months. I assume that it must mean that SV also believes that it is doing the work of benefit. If it was thought to be completely wasted and worthless, and if it was thought to be unfounded when the UN Security Council twice urged the Member States to make exactly the kind of contributions that Norway has made, it would have to be suggested, in the name of propriety, to withdraw the force immediately. This balance between what can be done by civilians, and what can be done by military, I think with respect to reporting has a minimal disinterest in them, namely those who have an existing interest in the task being solved there and then. I actually think they're relatively uninterested in whether people have uniform or not when they do the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e735	The representative's salary put great emphasis on finding out that those who disagreed with the pay and the signatures have not understood anything special about what's happening around us. That's what he's paying for. But he also said – which is commendable – that he could sign every word that the leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee said. In that case, I would just like to point out from Wage that he also believes that there is a condition for Norwegian participation in Iraq that we are getting progress on regional issues – not so that it should be an automatic one, but that when we are going to consider continuing to participate in Iraq, we should also stress that Norway and other countries – in particular the United States and others – are putting greater pressure on finding a solution to the conflict between Palestine and Israel.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e740	I don't think there's any disagreement between Haakon Blankenburg and me about the reality of the matter. I'm not sure that the expression ‘one condition’ is the most exact and striking expression you can use in this context. As far as I have read the unanimous resolutions of the Security Council 1483 and 1511, those resolutions do not include such conditions as the willingness of individual Member States to participate. But what we can do is 100 pst. agree that once there is a situation in Iraq that is so open, not only as regards what is happening within the borders of Iraq, but also in the region as well, all countries must do their utmost to make the most of the situation as constructively as possible in order to bring about a move towards stable, democratic regimes throughout the Middle East – yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e747	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e750	The presentations we are going to comment on invite a fundamental debate, not only on Norwegian defence and its future role, but also on Norwegian foreign policy. The Progress Party is deeply concerned that we are now in a relatively short time, without such a broad societal debate, making choices that can have major consequences in the future, not least at the intersection of defence policy and foreign policy. For the Progress Party, it has been important that Norway has been able to take an active part in the fight against international terrorism and for a safer world. In particular, there has been a clear need since 11 September 2001. We have consistently supported the operations that Norway has undertaken in Afghanistan. For our part, our contribution to Iraq has been a follow-up, namely the fight against terrorism and the fight against states that both violate their own citizens and threaten peace and security around them. In addition to Afghanistan and Iraq, Norway is particularly involved in the Balkans, now primarily in Kosovo. Here, too, the Government has received support from the Progress Party. We recognise that the world is changing, and that, in many cases, safeguarding our national interests will happen in a different way today than before. That is why we want to justify our presence in Afghanistan, in Iraq and in the Balkans as a defence of Norwegian interests. As Thomas L. Friedman wrote in the New York Times: “in today’s globalized world, if you don’t visit a bad neighborhood, it will visit you”. We will stress that for our part, our continued participation in foreign operations will need to have a clear connection with what our interests are. As an alliance partner in NATO, it is also quite natural to include alliance interests in our interests. We believe that with today's commitment to these fronts, we have stretched our resources to military foreign operations to almost the maximum. It is, as stated in the presentations, to the greatest extent a limit on what Norway can contribute. The ambitions can be great, and certainly good, but our defence is limited, and the responsibility for it must be borne by the majority in this Chamber. The Progress Party has tried to improve the resource situation. We have failed to do so, and now we feel that even recent agreements on the framework of defence are being broken. That is why we are in a situation where there is a need to be particularly critical to undertake tasks that are exerting our defence and its framework further. We are unable to discover that the politicians involved in new foreign missions also work equally actively to improve the situation of the defence. The progress party will therefore have to weigh carefully in the future whether foreign missions become so extensive and costly that it weakens our defence otherwise. Although we acknowledge that participation in many cases is an expanded defence of our interests, and that our forces will benefit from being out, there is a limit to how far we can go without the defence of Norway being affected. Although what is about to happen to the Defense, partly can be justified by changes in NATO, changing the threat picture, etc., on our part, it will be necessary to discuss what is happening and how far the changes in the Defence will go. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘We should also be prepared to take responsibility for contributing to operations related to peace and reconciliation processes in which we are involved.’ He mentions both Sri Lanka and Sudan as two current examples. We, Norway, have been used in different ways and with different backgrounds as brokers and organizers of peace processes in many places on our planet. I will not take the debate on whether this has been good for the parties or for Norway, or in line with what we should prioritise or similar matters. I will only note that Norway has obtained a name for the international peace brokerage arena. If we continue the current policy, we will probably be active on other fronts in the future. With the Foreign Minister's statement that we must be ready to take responsibility for contributing to operations where we have participated in peace processes, we believe that a whole new debate is being drawn up. With such a principle, by engaging in peace-making work at the same time, we will have almost given signals that here we will have to commit far beyond the very peace-making agency itself. One might be tempted to dwell on this issue, but I hesitate to make it clear that this makes it very necessary to be very careful about where Norway engages in future peace processes, because with today's practice I see that we need to have a dramatic increase both in defence and in our police forces in order to deal with all the conflicts we have assumed a responsibility for. I mentioned earlier that until now we believe it is right to continue our involvement in Afghanistan, Iraq and Kosovo. However, the report also highlights other areas in which the Government believes we need to be ready to contribute. I have mentioned Sudan and Sri Lanka, then Ethiopia, Eritrea, Sierra Leone and Liberia. I'm not going to take every single conflict for granted, but in general say that Norway, by our contributions abroad today, is balancing on the limit of what we have of resources for such missions. It is therefore most strange for the Progress Party that this is listed at least five new conflicts where we should prepare to enter. Although it's about something different than what we might be involved in today, the presentation at this point seems to be completely without realism. It becomes incredible to us that while we feel that both Afghanistan and Iraq are far from stabilised, small Norway should consider contributing a wide range of other places. There's something called shoemaker, stay at your reading. At least we have to try to have a certain line in what we're doing, and not set ourselves up so that we skip one to two times a year to what had to be the most politically correct at any time. The fact that Norway is continuing in Iraq, and has now sent new contributions to Afghanistan, will also have to mean that other countries might be able to assess, for example, the situation. Sudan. Peace in Sudan and in Sri Lanka cannot be made dependent on Norwegian contributions. So the Foreign Minister says that in Sri Lanka, in Sudan and elsewhere in Africa, there are not military operations, but more police tasks. All assignments are different, and I don't have the prerequisites to be able to debate what becomes the concrete nature of the mission in, for example. Sudan. But I am surprised that the Foreign Minister, before a peace agreement in Sudan is ready, and before a mandate for a peace mission has been given, can determine what is at least not at all about. You can almost understand the Minister for Foreign Affairs there that the mission in Sudan will not compete with our contributions in, for example. Kosovo and Afghanistan. We, for our part, believe that it would be wrong to give signals about Norwegian participation in addition to what we are now engaged in. Like the Government, we feel no need to give signals for a long time in the future when it comes to being present in Afghanistan, Iraq and Kosovo. But as the presentations show, the challenges in a few of these places are of a long-standing nature, and when both the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence underline our limited resources, the Progress Party understands it so that the Government intends to downgrade future involvement in those places in order to be more active in Africa. Finally, I would like to make another point that the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out in his statement, and that is drugs and Afghanistan. He points to the destabilising effect of drug production and trafficking on Afghanistan, and this is quite correct. However, it is also important to take into account what drugs from Afghanistan mean to us in Norway and in Europe. It says at 80 pst. This is due to further analysis — if not also, it is in our interest to continue to contribute to the development of Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e777	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e780	At least I am glad that the representative of Höglund recognised that participation in international operations is also an important part of our defence and foreign policy, and that it also gives our strengths competence. But I have a question related to Sudan. In Sudan, there is actually a brutal, fundamentalist regime built up by Al Qaidas Osama bin Laden. He lived there for years, injected billions into the regime and made it an Islamic, fundamentalist regime. Does Morten Højlund recognise that a peace force for Sudan can actually also be seen as part of the fight against terrorism?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e788	In answer to that, I would say, to the very highest degree, yes. The fight for peace in Sudan is important. It's important that we put in place operations there that can lead to a future and lasting peace. So the question of Norway is already going to signal that we're going to go in here. Based on what we know about our existing exposures, we say that's not what we're willing to do. We feel that we have stretched our resources far enough, and here perhaps other countries need to get on the road and take responsibility for Sudan. That does not mean that the fight for peace in Sudan is not important, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e795	During these Christmas seasons, one may have to understand that the representative Høglund was in the Shoemaker Street and would like Norway to stay at his reading. However, he now went quite far in his intervention towards accepting also on behalf of the Progress Party that Norway has an international obligation that is not pre-defined geographically. Then it amazes me that the leader of the Progress Party already one minute after the presentation was held on Monday, stated on Norwegian television that the Progress Party is absolutely opposed to any Norwegian involvement in Sudan. I don't know if it was cleared with the party's foreign fraction in advance. My question is: does the Progress Party actually believe that at this stage you can categorically reject that opportunity? The only thing that was said by the Minister for Foreign Affairs was that if there were to be a peace agreement in Sudan, and if the UN comes to Norway with a request, then... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e808	The President will repeat that a line is to be held within 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e811	Knowing the 2004 needs in particular in Iraq and Afghanistan, it is clear from our point of view that we want to give a signal that Norwegian participation in Sudan is not relevant. It's not an eternal answer, but it's an answer with a background in that situation. We believe that there is a great deal to be done to make changes so dramatically positive, both in Iraq and Afghanistan, that we are in a completely different situation when we get a little further out next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e816	A Norwegian mine or explosive cleaner costs approx. NOK 2,500 per year. day(s) In comparison, an Iraqi explosive cleaner trained by Norwegian People's Aid costs approx. 30 kroner a day. At the same time, we know that these money also comes from the aid budget, which I know the Progress Party has often made good sense. Does not the Progress Party also feel that it is the wrong place to take these money from, and that they could have been used in a much better way if one had given them to Norwegian private voluntary organisations? Wouldn't you have gotten more efficiency out of it? If you look at these sums, you're going to go about that. $13 million. NOK 65 million for Public Aid. kr to the Defence from the Aid Budget – that is, more money for the military, less for civilians, which in turn may harm Norway’s reputation as a peace nation. Does the Progress Party see that we can be out and damage our own reputation by the way we act?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e821	Our experience is that the way Norwegian forces act, whether in the Balkans, in Iraq or in Afghanistan, in no way harms Norway's reputation. On the contrary, I feel that our forces are doing a solid and good job. If there can be more effective ways to solve these problems – yes, I would like to take that debate. I like to discuss it. There are probably more cost-effective solutions to some questions, but I felt that the main question was that it might be problematic to participate with military forces on these fronts. It doesn't feel the Progress Party. We feel that Norway is doing this in a good way, and that the forces represent the nation of Norway in a very good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e826	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e829	In the last issue of Newsweek, a ranking of the world's most powerful country has been made. Norway comes in ninth place – not because of our military participation in Iraq or in Afghanistan, but because we are a high quality of life country with considerable diplomatic power. So it's the role that Norway, as a small country in the world, has taken: to facilitate peace processes and to support the UN. That's what has given us international reputation, and Newsweek gives us high scores for. It is at least once a year that we are assured that Norway has international attention, and that is the day when the Nobel Peace Prize is awarded. This means, therefore, that around the world – as far as it is known – Norway’s foreign policy efforts are linked to the mission of peace and mission to build up conflicts, and we are a welfare country. In the opinion of the SV, this should be the heading of the role that Norway is to take internationally. And we should clean it a lot more. We should see what we contribute in terms of assistance, in terms of military efforts, in terms of foreign policy and diplomatic efforts, together. And we have a long way to go before we can say that all of this is integrated under a heading where we purer what little Norway with four and a half million people could do an even more important job, that's to be a peace-building nation. What SV wants for the further debate on Norway’s international contribution is to look at how we can further strengthen this role. We have the potential to have an even stronger position as a peacemaker. We have an opportunity not to have to coordinate our foreign policy because we are outside the EU. We have a reputation for effort, for example. in the case of peace-building in the Middle East, the organisation of peace-building in Guatemala, the job that is now being done in Sri Lanka, which we can take on board. But the prerequisite for being able to clean up this is in our opinion that we are making some clearer choices and priorities. We have limited military resources. Not least, we have limited human resources. We cannot say yes both to set up maximum in US-led operations and NATO operations while making significant contributions directly under the UN. The last one is about all of the statistics. A few years ago, Norway had 1,300–1,400 personnel directly under the UN. Today it's less than 30. Norway's international military contribution is now primarily under NATO command, and it is the Norwegian forces in Kosovo and Afghanistan. In Iraq, we are known to be under the British occupying force. But we know that we have the opportunity to contribute militarily with about 1,000 people out at the same time today. Now we have 800 people out there, and that means that our capacity today is far. We ask critical questions from the SV on several of the priorities that the Government has done. In particular, we oppose the fact that Norway is contributing 150 soldiers in Iraq, and that we chose to support it during an occupation of Iraq, as the only country that at that time had opposed the war. First of all, we believe that the fact that we were so quick with our own forces was suitable for questioning our position on the war against Iraq. We were pleased with what was Norway's position on the war, and we realized that it was a principle position. However, there was no clear mandate from the Security Council at the time Norway put forces in the first round. Secondly, we believe that it is unfortunate that the Government insists that Norway's efforts with soldiers are of a different nature because they are not military soldiers, but humanitarian soldiers. It is a matter which, in particular, the Joint Organisation of the Order has called for a more honest representation by the Government of the situation in Iraq. Thirdly, in our view, it is totally unsustainable that the forces were financed from the aid budget for the current year, and we are pleased that at least for the future this funding has been cleared up. We perceive that the Norwegian contribution in Iraq is primarily a political mark and a political handshake to the United States after we distanced ourselves from the war. Although the soldiers may refer to some of the results of their work, there can be no basis for claiming that the Norwegian contribution of strength in Iraq constitutes a decisive effort for the population. On the basis of this, SV believes that it would be a much clearer situation if we phased out our contribution to Iraq. There are many other tasks that should be given priority. We are therefore promoting a proposal that the Government prepares for the liquidation of this strength contribution during the summer of 2004. No wages need to make this a turnaround from SV's side. A few days ago, the defence budget was being dealt with in the Chamber, and it was clear that SV opposed Norway's withdrawal from Iraq. However, we note that there is a majority in this Chamber to ensure that there are forces in place until the summer of 2004. Our subsidiary position is that we are now beginning to liquidate this contribution. In Afghanistan, too, there is an uncertain situation around the Norwegian forces. In SV, we perceived it as unfortunate that Norway took part in battles through ‘Enduring Freedom’, without it being possible for the Norwegian public to form a concrete picture of the consequences of the fighting, what potential gains were made, and how crucial the Norwegian forces were. We are pleased that Norway is now out of ‘Enduring Freedom’, and when we could recently read that US forces have recently killed some 15 children in air strikes together, this does not help to reduce our critical attitude to this warfare. We have consistently supported Norwegian participation in ISAF, including the latest contribution. There is no doubt that the safety situation in Afghanistan is very difficult. A long-term presence is necessary to prevent new conflicts. SV has so far been behind the strength contribution in connection with Loya Jirga. Whether Norway is going to undertake future military tasks in Afghanistan, we believe that we will depend on whether we have capacity in relation to other tasks that might be desirable for us to undertake, and we believe it is important that ISAF continues to have clear peacekeeping and stabilising tasks. We do not see peace and stabilisation as the main objective of ‘Enduring Freedom’, and we will therefore be very critical if it goes against a merger of ‘Enduring Freedom’ and ISAF under NATO command. However, we would welcome Norway stepping up the non-military support for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. In this regard, we believe that we have a long way to go before the international community has fulfilled its promises. The whole point of the SV is that the debate on Norway’s international contribution should be much more marked by parallel thinking. We can take Afghanistan as a starting point. The military contributions to Afghanistan are now far superior to the humanitarian contributions to Afghanistan, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs is probably just as aware of this as SV. But what's going to decide whether there will be peace in Afghanistan in the long term is whether you can build a civil society where those who are going to support families have a different way of caring for their families than having to report to the next warlord to get money. There's what you can't balance well enough, there's what you can't coordinate the international effort well enough, and there's what Norway could have had an even more offensive attitude. From the point of view of the SV, we would like us to discuss for the future even more clearly the way in which we can draw on what we are already known internationally, namely to be a peace-building country, a country that has contributed a lot to conflict resolution, a little more than the size would suggest. It is a role that Norway could have and that not all countries can have. Today, too much of Norway’s contribution is international, that we want to contribute a little here and there based on where NATO or the United States has its main effort – perhaps primarily to plant the Norwegian flag close to them – without seeing that we can have a role that is not just to line up with the rest of the NATO countries and the United States, but which is a peace-building role that it is not as easy for them to have. With this, I would like to address the proposal that has been distributed to the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e872	The representative Kristin Halvorsen has taken up the proposal she has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e877	The representative of Halvorsen came to the conclusion that Norwegian defence has limited resources. Then I must almost allow myself to ask the question: What resources would we have had if we were to follow the defence budget to SV, which would have cut NOK 4.4 billion? The majority of these cuts went to investments in Norwegian defence, and that means indirectly that SV must believe that we are going to send our soldiers out in missions abroad without them carrying the best equipment. So I'd like to hear what SV has as an alternative to the ideas that Kristin Halvorsen puts forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e883	It is true, as the replicator said here, that our tightening up of the defence budget is primarily about the costly investment plans that the Defense has, and that the nature of Norway's international involvement in military operations does not necessarily mean having extremely expensive equipment. On the contrary, there will be many of the more peace-building and peace-keeping operations in which Norway participates, which have an equal degree of – what to say – police work as of direct military work, where it is not F-16 aircraft or precious material that is involved, but other types of work for security. So this is very well related to what SV thinks should be Norway's profile of international efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e888	I assume that the defence crews at all levels noticed what equipment Kristin Halvorsen will send them out on mission, to some of the most dangerous missions that can be sent out to Norwegian young men and women. In addition to that, I would refer to what Inge Wohnning pointed out in his statement, that we have a tendency in Norway to use the UN as a big and justifiable honorary word, but with regard to the decisions in the UN, there is a tendency that we support only those decisions that we like ourselves. And then my question to Kristin Halvorsen, when she claims that our contribution in Iraq is due to the need to appease the Americans: does she think that the United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1483 and 1511 – which are perfectly clear with the request for participation also from countries other than those who participated in the war, and has an equally clear emphasis that this does not mean that one is part of the occupying force – are completely immaterial decisions in the UN?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e895	Firstly, the personnel authorised by the SV to contribute on behalf of Norway to the United Nations mission can be fully confident that they will be equipped with the equipment necessary to ensure safety and perform their duties. And heresy knows just as well as SV that there are different characters on different missions internationally. So with regard to the issue of Iraq: yes, we consider the last UN resolution to be ready, but we also expect that when Norway was very strong for us to contribute in Iraq and was among the first countries to say so, it was primarily about planting the Norwegian flag near the United States. Very many other countries, i.e. all other countries that had opposed the war were skeptical to participate. And at the same time, we were asked, also by the United Nations, to contribute to the Congo, where there is another serious conflict, but there the government had to say no because there was no capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e902	The representative, Kristin Halvorsen, mentioned in his statement that we have limited military resources, and I agree with that. But when we see that both Red Cross, Norwegian Public Aid and others cannot operate without the protection of military forces in specific areas – it is difficult both to build houses and to cultivate the land when you have snipers lying and lurking in the bushes, without military presence – does the representative think that we should withdraw, so that the aid from voluntary organisations is impossible, which again affects the civilian population?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e907	I thought I went through the main areas where Norway is contributing today, with the exception of Kosovo, namely Iraq and Afghanistan, which we consider to be different. In Iraq, we believe that we should withdraw, not because we do not believe that there should be military presence in Iraq. It's absolutely vital to have an opportunity to build some kind of stability. However, we believe that there is considerable uncertainty about the nature of the Norwegian contribution, especially around the border between humanitarian and military efforts, and we believe that Norwegian contributions could have been better used elsewhere. In Afghanistan, SV has supported our participation in ISAF, but we see many issues, conflicts or potential contradictions about the future contribution in Afghanistan – first and foremost, both of these conflicts, because all military efforts must also be closely linked to the political process that can lead to a political solution in which stabilisation can be achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e916	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e919	Norway is a country known for being in the service of peace, as several speakers have been in and as the previously referred Newsweek article shows. We're handing out the Nobel Peace Prize. We're trying to help mediation between the parties in different conflicts. And we have fought for the UN as a strong body for peacekeeping and peacemaking. Threats to peace look different today than they did during the cold war. Today, peace is often threatened by civil wars and internal conflicts, and by non-governmental actors, such as the terrorist network Al Qaida. We must meet through the UN for the first time. It is the UN Security Council that has, and shall have, the primary responsibility for maintaining international peace and security. There shall be no doubt: Norway shall support the UN and participate in making resources available so that the United Nations can carry out its mission of establishing and maintaining peace. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out that there may be a need for different instruments in peace operations to close them. On the one hand, civil society needs to be built up, such as humanitarian aid, development aid and a contribution to the development of a judiciary and a civil police force. There may be important elements here. But, on the other hand, there is often also a need for a military presence to create and ensure stability, so that economic and political development begins. From the Norwegian side, we have to do both. However, the Minister of Foreign Affairs concluded that for Norwegian participation in military operations there is a clear requirement that operations comply with international law. The Minister stressed that all use of power must be based on international law, either through the consent of the parties, through the right to self-defence or through a mandate from the UN Security Council. I'll join you to that. And I want to add: I actually understand after the last article from the representative of the Halvorsen that she also acknowledges that the forces that are now in Iraq from our side are there in accordance with a clear UN decision, as the demand has been from SV time and time again. I think that those who demand that we take the forces home right away, underscore the fact that there is actually a clear UN decision on the basis of which the forces are there. And I thought it would have been more real in the debate, instead of this suspicion, to recognize that bit even if one disagreed that they were going to be there. This hold, to which I have referred, has had clear practical consequences in the last year. The war in Iraq had no clear mandate on international law, and Norway could therefore not support the American leadership invasion. Now the situation is a different one. The Silver War is over, and the United States and the United Kingdom stand as occupying power in Iraq. The humanitarian situation in Iraq is a major problem. Many single-minded people, and life is unsafe in most areas. This situation has been pointed out by the UN Security Council. And it's this situation that means that the Security Council in several resolutions has called on the UN member states to set up different kinds of help, including military contributions. And at least equally important: the Iraqi Governing Council, which is the closest we come to a kind of representation for the Iraqi people, has also asked us to help. Yes, that's to help it – about helping to create order, getting infrastructure like power and road, and getting fuel and securing food supplies. These are tasks that civil organisations can normally do in themselves, but that aid organisations cannot do in Iraq, because it is too dangerous. Hence, military people need to defend themselves if attacked. Some representatives in the debate have tried to question the role of the Norwegian military teams serving in Iraq, and have produced the distinction between the occupation force and the stabilisation force as something academic. Such a cover-up, or cultivation of doubt, I want to distance myself from. Norway has set up military teams to help with stabilisation and to carry out important tasks of a humanitarian nature. This is a kind of help that the Iraqi people need, and that the United Nations has asked the Member States to help with. At the same time, it is quite clear – quite clearly – that it is the United States and the United Kingdom, and only the two countries, which are responsible for occupying power. This has also been established by the UN Security Council. Norway is not involved in the occupation of Iraq. Now it is claimed that it is difficult for the ordinary Iraqi to see this difference between different categories of military personnel. And this is probably right, I'll admit that. Many Iraqis may not be aware that the United Nations and the Iraqi Governing Council have invited countries other than the United States and the United Kingdom to help, or are aware of which soldiers or countries have what roles. But international law is completely decisive. We cannot say no to the UN's call for contributions simply because we are afraid that the Iraqis can misunderstand the role of the Norwegian forces. Norway is a small country with limited resources. We cannot answer yes to all requests for contributions. We have pledged the funds needed to contribute to Iraq in the first half of 2004, including. to an engineering company. Whether the Christian People's Party will go in to extend the contribution in Iraq beyond this is not decided. We'll come back to that later. So we don't want to vote in favour of the SV proposal, which would mean that we're already concluding right now. We will see developments both in Iraq and in other places where our efforts are desirable, before we draw our final conclusion. Nevertheless, I would like to say that we should then give priority to setting up in areas other than Iraq with our limited resources. Firstly, we have to set up with stabilizing military presences in the areas where we have supported the military action, that is. in Kosovo and to a particular extent in Afghanistan. When it comes to Afghanistan, the Norwegian contribution is two-fold, as the Foreign Minister did well. First, Norway participated in Operation Enduring Freedom, which has its constitutional basis in the collective self-defense after the terrorist attacks on the United States. Secondly, we participated in ISAF, which has its international legal basis both in decisions of the Security Council and in agreement with the government of Karzai in Kabul. The latter is important to me and to the Christian People's Party. When Hamid Karzai was visiting Norway, he asked for help to bring about peace in the country, so that reconstruction and development in the country could get under way. Now the Afghan Grand Assembly continues to write a new Afghan constitution. It won't be easy, but I hope that the assembly will be closed in arriving at a collective and democratic solution. A Norwegian security and security company is involved in ensuring the implementation of this meeting, and it should certainly be a mission that most people in this room can stand behind. Norway has been active in efforts to find peace solutions in different parts of the world. In recent times, Norwegian forces have worked to create peace and reconciliation in Sri Lanka and Sudan. Especially in Sudan it looks positive now, after the country has been plagued by a cruel civil war for two decades. The parties to the war agree that they want a peace agreement, but there are still more difficult questions left. Let's all hope that the agreement comes all the way to port. If a final agreement is reached, there will be a need for military forces to monitor the new and destroy peace. Norway and Norwegian forces have played an important role in the peace process. Norwegian soldiers will have great troubling as a neutral party. The Christian People's Party will therefore welcome Norway's participation in a UN-led force in Sudan, in accordance with the good traditions of Norway in that area. And I want to ask the Progress Party: Does the Progress Party also believe that in Sudan there may be more confidence in the forces that come from Norway, which they have confidence in, than in the whole other forces in the UN service? I'm overconfident that it's important that Norway is there too, and I believe that the Progress Party is also in agreement. Let me sum up by highlighting what I opened with: Firstly, when Norway participates internationally, it shall have a clear mandate under international law. Usually it will be a UN mandate. Secondly, we need to give special priority to building peace where we have been involved and behind a military intervention, as we have done in Afghanistan and Kosovo. Thirdly, the monitoring of peace agreements of a more traditional nature must also be a priority. I for my part, and the Christian People's Party, hope for example. that Norway may once in the near future participate in monitoring a successful peace agreement in Sudan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e971	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e974	The representative Lilletun and I are probably in complete agreement that the precondition for our participation in Iraq is that through it we contribute to the stability and development of democracy, that a constitution is being developed in Iraq, and that we also have free elections, hopefully under the supervision of the UN. But I want to come back to a question that the representative Blankenburg asked about Inge Wohnning. Does the representative Lilletun agree that the condition for stability and peace throughout the region is that we get a solution to the conflict between Israel and Palestine? Sees the representative Lilletun that it is actually such that as long as we have the occupation of Israel – and the way Israel goes about it – current dictators and despots in other Arab countries can also keep their people down and channel their anger and frustration against Israel and the West, among others. in the form of terrorist attacks, because we have not solved the conflict between Israel and Palestine? Does the Christian People's Party see the need for us to show muscles to both Israel and the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e981	I largely share the analysis of the chairman of the defence committee on the basis that there are as many conflicts in the Middle East as there are, and that it is so difficult to resolve them. I also share that view that it is absolutely necessary to work actively to resolve the conflict between Israel and Palestine as a basis for stabilising the whole region. Now I do not see that this is being resolved as an excuse for us to continue to work actively in Iraq, because at all costs we must continue to work for democracy there, but that it is essential for the region to change, we are quite a few about it. I agree that we should be clear about both the United States and Israel. The size of the mouse shells is probably something I doubt will impress enough when we show them. But I would also like to refer to, in addition to what the representative named Nybakk, the self-governing powers on the Palestinian side. They also need to understand that terrorism has to end in order for it to be a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e988	The Representative for Wage challenged the Progress Party whether we do not see that Norwegian forces will have special confidence in Sudan. Of course. We believe Norwegian forces will have a great deal of trust wherever they come. That's what we're experiencing. That's the experience we have. That's why we're in demand. That's why we're wanted. But my question to the representative for pay is if not also the Christian People's Party sees that there are limits to how wide we can engage, if we should not say that perhaps others will take over such assignments, even if it should prove that trust in our soldiers is the very best.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e994	Now I believe that the representative of Høglund was injured to report the representative's salary into the Christian People's Party and confuse the representative of Lilletun with the representative of Wage. We can do someone else, so that's okay. I hope the representative does not know too much of that reality. In relation to whether we don't see a delimitation, it's clear that the Christian People's Party also sees that we have that delimitation. But it was referred to here earlier today, from the representative of Høglund I believe it was, or it was another, that it is not as long as we had 1,300 soldiers, blue bearded – that is, under UN forces. So if we add up to what we have today, it's less than that, even though we're more of a piece of equipment, and it's probably going to cost us the same amount. So, in the Christian People's Party's view, we're not at the limit that the representative of Høglund is talking about, but it's clear that there's a limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1001	Moreover, the President seems to have seen both the difference and the difference between the representatives of Lilletun and Wage.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1004	Norway has destroyed 7,500 mines in Iraq, was told by the Minister of Defence in her distribution. These are mainly found at and at warehouses. There is no clearing of my fields, but retrieving them from stores. To refer to some Norwegian officers, it says one, Lieutenant Lauren, to NTB December 8 on marine mines: “We found someone in a warehouse.”... “We have never seen a mine in connection with our work along the river”. Understood are also sea mines. It also says Lieutenant Lauren. These mines are mainly found in and at the warehouse, and this is with reference to all the 7,500 mines. So humanitarian mine clearance is not relevant for the Norwegian miners in Iraq, for the simple reason that under British command they have been outsourced to completely different missions. With the humanitarian mine clearance here, it seems that there are people without weapons and without uniform who are actually out clearing the school road, clearing the field, where the farmer needs – not from strategic clearing, but from humanitarian needs. Does the Christian People’s Party think that this suggests that Norwegian efforts are particularly humanitarian when we get such clear reports on the contrary?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1018	I want to join in the observation the President had made in the relationship between Wage and Lilletun. Now we're going to have hope of that being resolved for the future. So to the representative Jacobsen's question. I agree with him that Norwegian People's Aid is outstanding in clearing mines, that the humanitarian organizations are doing a great job. But I think we should see that Norwegian People's Aid and the others have benefited from the fact that there have been other forces there who have actually ensured that they could do that job. Nor could they go out in no man's country and clear the mines, but it was safe in that area. So I'll warn you a little bit about some newspaper headlines as truth documentation. I think that the Foreign Minister's statement has well documented that we are doing the job, and that we are doing the job because the UN has asked us to do it. That seems to me to count more than some random officers' home reporting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1027	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1030	It is good and necessary that we have today's priority debate on Norwegian participation in international operations. And the Central Party would like to thank the Secretary of State and the Minister of Defence for the presentations. The government's statements are characterized by very descriptive and little analysis. In this way, the Government has made it easy, but it also means that a number of important debates are not illuminated. Let me take some of the questions the Center Party is asking in the cool water of the presentations. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘The General Line to which the Government has submitted is that we should primarily participate in UN and NATO-led operations.’ This is interesting given the heavy efforts that Norway has made in coalitions that have not been UN or NATO leaders. This applies as known to both ‘Enduring Freedom’ in Afghanistan and to the operation in Iraq. I note that the Foreign Minister says ‘first and foremost’ participate in UN and NATO-led operations, but I assume that there is substance in the attitude expressed by the Government. This can hardly be understood in any way other than that the Government takes maritime criticism that it believes it has gone too far in supporting non-UN or NATO-led operations. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirm that this is a correct understanding? The centre party is very concerned that Norwegian foreign exposure should be addressed precisely so that we only participate in UN and NATO operations. Not least recent experience from Iraq suggests that this framework is necessary. According to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the government is ready to contribute to the UN operations in Ethiopia and Eritrea, in Sierra Leone and Liberia. This is good, as far as it goes. But what does that mean? Norway has unfortunately little involvement in UN operations on the African continent. We are talking about a participation that today involves less than a handful of staff in the various operations mentioned above. The central party believes it is very important for Norway to increase efforts on the African continent. Only in that way can we be credible in our commitment to Africa. I must therefore ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: does the Government believe that efforts in UN operations in Africa should be stepped up? My question concerns operations other than possible participation in Sudan, because in the light of Norway's long-standing and heavy involvement in Sudan, the Centre Party considers it unthinkable that Norway should not make a substantive contribution if a peace agreement is reached. We also assume that participation in an operation in Sudan is financed by additional resources. The Minister of Foreign Affairs did not discuss the relationship between Norwegian participation in UN operations and other types of operations. The centre party believes it is very unfortunate that Norway's participation in UN operations is very small. The centre party has been told that we have forces in non-UN-led operations that the UN wants us to participate in. At the same time, it sends bad signals to the UN that our commitment to blue helmets is as small as it is now. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed in his statement that we are not yet on target in Kosovo and that the underlying problems and contradictions are far from being solved. He therefore envisages a continued significant international presence in Kosovo. The Minister of Defence said in his statement that the Government aims to offer a smaller number of helicopters in the second half of 2004. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: How does the Government assess the situation in Kosovo today, and on what basis is the significant conversion of efforts proposed? The centre lot is subject to the obligations of Norway, too, in relation to not withdrawing until it is certain that developments on the ground are acceptable and that what has been achieved is not pushed away. The Foreign Minister does not choose to discuss one of the issues that has been hottest in relation to Iraq, namely the blending of humanitarian and military aid. This must be interpreted in such a way that this issue does not concern the Government. This is incomprehensible. The humanitarian organisations in Norway claim that their work is hampered by the military humanitarian role of the military. So, are the organizations fundamentally wrong? Have they misunderstood completely? Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think this is an irrelevant issue? With regard to the views of the Central Party on sending Norwegian soldiers to Iraq, much has been said earlier in this Chamber. We stand firm that it was, and is, politically very unwise to have soldiers in Iraq, soldiers who are in practice part of the occupying force. Norway is helping to ease the pressure on the United States and the United Kingdom in relation to the responsibility they have under international law to ensure law and order after an occupation. Furthermore, this combination of humanitarian and military efforts is very unfortunate in a country that is as unstable as Iraq is at the moment. The Central Party also believes that the participation in Iraq, which was indisputably politically motivated, has been humanitarianly justified in relation to Norwegian opinion. The centre party does not question the basis of international law to participate in Iraq at the stage it is now in. We've never done that either. We also have full confidence in the Norwegian soldiers involved. What we are asking questions about, however, is whether the forces are doing what they were supposed to do, whether the forces are carrying out the tasks they are trained to do, and whether the impact and effectiveness are proportionate to the use of resources. The center party would appreciate if one of the ministers could comment on this. The Central Party understands that, according to judgment, the Government will withdraw the forces from Iraq after the first half of 2004. We think this is good, sail if we think we should never have the strengths there. But at the same time, it will be useful to learn more about the government's reason for taking the forces out into the summer. Do you think they won't be needed after the first six months? Has anyone understood that it is politically problematic to have soldiers in Iraq, or is it simply that NATO's new exclamation force will seize so much resources that it is not possible to maintain the commitment? A comment on the reason would be interesting. Both Norwegian foreign policy and Norwegian defence policy are undergoing major changes to address the new threats posed by international terrorism. The centre party is concerned that the changes must be well thought out, and we believe that much more debate is needed on the rapid changes that are now taking place. The defense is being dramatically changed. It is too much targeted at international operations, at the expense of our national defence. We have to be aware of where the balance should be. NATO is increasingly justified in the fight against terrorism. The organisation is increasingly focused on missions outside NATO territory. The central party believes that a critical review of the role of the organisation outside its territory is needed in NATO. Norway’s international profile is increasingly marked by a desire to be a military actor, and it is becoming less and less marked by the desire to appear as a peace nation. There is every reason to ask questions about development. Are we sure that the changes we are making are the ones that most effectively prevent terrorism? To what extent do we believe that the fight against terrorism can be won by military means of power? Under what conditions do military means of power operate towards a maximum moveable objective, which is international terrorism? I fear that our answers often become too simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1077	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1080	The centre party is in the rhetoric occupied by a strong national defence. For outsiders, it may seem that the Centre Party considers that there is a natural contrast between a strong national defence and an international commitment. Nevertheless, the Central Party for the intervention in Kosovo supported both Operation Enduring Freedom and ISAF in Afghanistan to mention something. The last is that the Center Party is now confirming Norwegian participation in Sudan and other African countries. In the context of the budget, the Central Party made a big point that Norway had to invest in its forces at home, i.e. the national defence. Can the representative Haga clarify what the Central Party really means? What are the capacities in the defence to be used in the various locations?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1090	An adequate answer to the question will require more than the time I have at my disposal now, but overall, the problem indicated by the representative Halvorsen is wrong. The centre party has never thought that there is any natural contradiction between an international commitment and a national defence. We are concerned that Norway should be active internationally, but at the same time we are concerned that we should have a national defence that meets the challenges we face today. Our questions relate to whether we have the right balance today, or whether the transition towards looking outside the country's borders is too fast, and whether it goes too far. I think it would be wise if many took an assessment with an open mind of this, and worked with their sails in relation to what is the right balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1095	Åslaug Haga was of the opinion that he heard ‘soul criticism’ in the Minister of Foreign Affairs’s statement on behalf of the Government. I have to confess that I was unable to hear, but it may be due to age, and hearing is getting weaker. But I suppose the Foreign Minister himself will be able to explain whether there was such a «soul criticism». I wish that Åslaug Haga might try the practice of “soul criticism” himself. She has been very concerned with the UN Security Council and respect for the UN Security Council in previous debates in this Chamber. In her posts this time I did not hear a trace of concern on that occasion. I mentioned in my speech paragraph 14 of Resolution 1511, which uses such strong words as the 'Urges Member States', that is to say,'supposes Member States', to make contributions to the stabilisation of Iraq, including military forces. Åslaug Haga asked the rhetorical question: Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs not focus on Norwegian humanitarian organisations? Maybe I can ask the same question: Doesn't Åslauga focus on what a unanimous Security Council says?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1106	The representative on the payroll knows very well that the centre party is very concerned about what the Security Council says. Nor have I ever said that Norwegian participation in Iraq is contrary to international law. I have always stressed that it is not, in the light of the United Nations resolutions that lie there. But what I've been asking is whether it's political wisdom to put up with forces. The situation is that Norway is the only country of those countries that opposed the war, who have chosen to stand up with military forces. For me, that's the best proof that maybe you should practice some maritime criticism in the government in relation to whether you should maybe take another round in that case, whether it was politically wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1112	The representative, Åslaug Haga, said in his speech that the situation in Iraq is unstable, but still believes that Norway should withdraw its forces from the country. Does the representative not see that there is a need for strengths to protect the civilian population and the non-governmental organisations that are trying to help secure life and health, or any of the same question that I asked the representative Kristin Halvorsen?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1119	Yes, one must be both deaf and blind if one does not see the need for military forces in Iraq to help clean up what has become a very difficult and regrettable situation. I'm not saying that the situation in Iraq would be good if you hadn't gone to a military action, but I would like to see other ways of resolving the conflict found. Yes, it must be to military forces in Iraq in the future, and there are two countries responsible for securing forces in a way that keeps law and order and creates peace in Iraq, and that is the United Kingdom and the United States. As an occupying power, the two countries have an obligation under international law to do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1126	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1129	The Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence gave a good account of Norwegian contributions to international operations and concerted efforts in Afghanistan and Iraq. The left is pleased that the former dictator of Iraq, Saddam Hussein, is now under arrest and can be brought to justice. Saddam Hussein must be held responsible for the abuse committed against the Iraqi people, against Kurds, and for the war crimes he has committed in the wars against Iran and Kuwait. Nevertheless, cruel dictators must also be guaranteed fair criminal prosecution. A credible and fair trial requires a well-founded legal system, and if this is not in place in Iraq, Saddam Hussein must be judged by an international court. It is best for the former dictator to be brought before the court in Iraq, but only if a trial satisfies international law requirements for independence and legal certainty. Such a legal process is important not only in relation to the justice of the accused and those who have suffered congestion, but also a major mental cleansing process for a country. In Europe, we see that there is a great difference between the countries that managed to conduct good judicial processes and their relationship with, for example, the EU. nynazism today, and those countries that have failed to conduct good judicial processes after World War II. Perhaps we have to admit that in the Balkans it would have been easier to build democracy if we had started legal proceedings. The attack on Saddam Hussein will hopefully lead to a recovery of the country going faster and quieter than it has so far done. Hopefully, those behind the acts of terror are weakened. Stability is necessary for the construction of democratic institutions and for the establishment of social structures. Norway has a responsibility, and the Government has shown a willingness to take responsibility, so that the civilian population in Iraq will not experience unnecessary suffering. In contrast, Norway’s humanitarian contribution should in no circumstances be seen as anything other than support for the civilian population. The left believes that this war should have been avoided. A united UN would have the power to force Saddam Hussein to reach an agreement on the disarmament of Iraq. A united UN would have the power to force Saddam Hussein to fulfil the intentions of Resolution 1441. The left – and the government – have always worked for a peaceful solution to the conflict. We've been working to find a solution within the framework of the UN Security Council. The Minister of Foreign Affairs gave a good picture in his presentation of how the pattern of conflict and threat in the world has changed in the period from World War II to today. The emergence of regional conflicts and the new threat picture where international terrorism is the main instrument are the developments we see. Only through international efforts and cooperation can such new safety challenges be met. The Left and Government are therefore very concerned that the UN is given the opportunity to play the role the world depends on the United Nations being able to play. In the past, the UN flag was sufficient for defence and protection against attacks, but in Iraq we have seen that the headquarters of both the UN and the Red Cross have been attacked by terrorists. It's a frightening development. While it shows a terrorism that does not respect the rules of the game, it also shows that the legitimacy of the UN is threatened in some parts of the world. Norway needs to do what we can to strengthen the UN and rebuild its trust. The UN must be reformed to enable those who bear the blue bets to both continue their efforts to maintain peace agreements and be able to meet new security challenges in the world. Norway’s participation in international operations shall be in accordance with international law. When security crises occur, it is very important that the world community gathers around the institutions and the framework that we have built up in the last 50 years. One country cannot take patents on democracy on behalf of the rest of us. If, in such situations, we are not united behind the UN as an institution, we can in the future risk facing a world without global and international law governance and common meeting places for conflict resolution. Norway has a tradition of contributing to crisis management operations to prevent human distress and suffering. We have also helped to promote political and economic development in the areas where we have engaged. At the same time, Norway has played a mediator role in several conflict areas, which has been recognised by both sides of the conflict. The left is concerned that our commitment and military contributions to international operations do not undermine the trust and credibility we have built internationally as peacekeepers and conflict brokers. As the Foreign Minister explained, there is little doubt that Afghanistan, Iraq and Kosovo will be the three areas where Norwegian – international – military resources will be concentrated next year. However, we should be prepared to take responsibility and contribute to operations related to peace and reconciliation processes elsewhere, to the extent that resources are available to it. The left is concerned that Norwegian peace policy should not only involve itself in conflicts that attract the attention of major powers. It goes beyond all of the conflicts that don't fit into the media image. Conflicts caught by the TV lenses are usually not missing support players. On the other hand, there are conflicts that do not focus on the world. That the media does not choose to send directly from Congo, does not reduce the needs of the inhabitants for peace and fundamental human rights, even though those of us who are awake in late hours of the night may get some pictures over the screen of all the atrocities that are happening. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs explained, many positive results have been achieved in Afghanistan in a short time. However, the road is long, and the need for international involvement both on the aid side and in other areas will be great for many years to come. It is important that the Bonn process, negotiated under the auspices of the United Nations, does not be undermined, but achieves the necessary degree of legitimacy in the population. In this regard, it is with stress that we are able to follow the Afghanistan Constitutional Assembly in work these days. Norway’s contribution to the reconstruction of Afghanistan is necessary and of course part of our international commitments as a NATO member. However, the tasks in Afghanistan are very demanding, and it is probably not that we have neither the resources nor the competence to take on all the tasks requested in this area. The basis of international law for Norway’s military participation in ‘Enduring Freedom’ was based on the exercise of collective self-defence. This type of justification for international operations must not be interpreted too far and too far, but must at the same time be adapted to the threat picture and the security challenges facing the world today. Finally, I would like to highlight the role of voluntary organisations in international crisis situations. Norwegian voluntary organisations make important contributions, and the Left, like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is concerned that we can also draw on the resources and insights of these organisations in the future. However, voluntary organisations also have an independent role in such situations. Norwegian non-governmental organisations often operate without Norwegian flag on the chest, but under international tab. The Norwegian authorities must help to enable organisations to do so and contribute financially without putting too much emphasis on the priorities of organisations. Norwegian authorities must also contribute to the security of Norwegian volunteers in international crisis situations. Volunteers in humanitarian organisations make an admirable and brave effort that we should show to value. Finally, I would like to make a small remark to the representative inge Wohnning's thoughts about think-boxes. Thinkbox was invented by Stalin. There was a small box he put his opponents in when they should think about and agree with him. I don't think the 'thinking box' is a good political concept. I think citizens should think, even when they're outside boxes. This also applies to politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1163	Norway has long traditions of participation in international stabilisation or peacekeeping operations — forces to help win peace. It is in the year 50 years since our first foreign quota left Schleswig, where, under British command, they had contributed both to the stabilisation of the Hitler regime and to the safeguarding of democracy against the advancing communism from the east. There are several reasons why the small country of Norway has chosen to be active with its outreach forces. Firstly, participation in international operations is part of our foreign policy, where Norway places emphasis on promoting the values of our own society based on: democracy, well-being, equality, popular participation. This is in many ways the Nordic dimension of politics, where our foreign policy also becomes relevant to most people, to a meaningful and humane life. Furthermore, it is important to discuss the relationship between poverty, wars and conflicts, or to see conflict resolution, assistance, humanitarian response and stabilisation forces in a context. That is why it is also completely wrong when there is a grievance that the Norwegian engineering company in Iraq is carrying out civil tasks. In order to ensure the development of democracy, the population also needs to be guaranteed the necessary benefits, such as electricity, water supply, communication and not to talk about a functioning health system. This is what the Norwegian soldiers contribute to. Now it is important to get a new constitution and secure free elections governed by the UN. Let me also remind you of what several of us have said earlier today, namely that we have to look at this whole region as a whole. As long as the Palestinians live under the unworthy conditions they do, poor peoples throughout the Arab world will channel their frustration against Israel, not against their despotic leaders. In 2001, Norway took the seat of the United Nations Security Council. Low-level, ambitious and results-oriented were the characteristics of Norwegian efforts focusing on Africa, on the relationship between peace and development and on conflict resolution. In Sudan there is a fundamentalist and oppressive regime built up by Osama bin Laden, of all people. He poured billions into the infrastructure for converting the country into an Islamic state. In the south, the liberation movement fights, among other things. against Sharia legislation, and want self-government. Norway has done a great job in the peace negotiations. If we reach a peace agreement, Norway should contribute forces in Sudan. I would also like to comment on what has been said about Congo here in the past. There are therefore no economic reasons why Norway has not participated in the Congo. There's been some blight killing on UN observers in Congo. It's also an operation that wouldn't have any returns, in the sense that we wouldn't be able to achieve anything. I want to refer you to a program that went on TV last night, about the situation in Congo. I think it would have been very uncertain for our forces. International operations also have a defence policy dimension. Today, defence policy is primarily concerned with securing Norwegian citizens and Norwegian interests, much more than securing the borders of the country. The fight against terrorism must take place both at home and outside, it does not stop at borders. Our contributions to Operation Enduring Freedom and ISAF in Afghanistan must also be seen in such a context, where Norway will now focus on ISAF, i.e. the stabilisation force. In this respect, I would like to point out that Afghanistan is now becoming a new co-operation country for Norwegian aid, which, in addition to contributing to democracy, institution building and law and order, needs to be focused in particular on strengthening the situation of women. Here was the second bandit regime Osama bin Laden built, with the consequences, among other things. it has been for the women of the country. Finally, participation in multinational forces also increases the competence of the Norwegian Defence Agency. Cooperation, training and strengths with our allies are part of the forward-looking defense. If we're going to wait for help when it burns with us, we have to deliver our scar when it burns with the neighbor. One more thing: when we first send boys, and some girls, out, and there's a political decision that makes these go into conflict and in peacekeeping operations, at least we have to stand behind them if it turns out. We must not fail them in situations that may be difficult where they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1192	Let me first express my satisfaction that there is such broad agreement in the Grand Duchy as this debate has shown, to the priorities that I set out in my statement. I fully agree with the chairman of the committee, Thorbjørn Jagland, that in the event of such dangerous tasks as we send Norwegian forces, it is important to have a broad majority for that in the Stortinget. It gives an extra strength. It's a force that I think those who carry out these dangerous tasks appreciate. They have been willing to do a job for the country to solve important tasks, which, of course, expose them to dangers and burdens, and we must and should be grateful to them. If I had a wish for the debate, it would have been that it might have concentrated more on what is a really big challenge, namely Afghanistan. I understand that today's political name has attached itself to Iraq, and I have no negative judgements as to whether the debate is focused on it. But we need to be aware that the challenge in Afghanistan is great. It'll be long. We must not make the same mistakes as we did in the 1990s, when Afghanistan was forgotten. And for Norway as a NATO country, it's an extra dimension with the responsibility that NATO has assumed. That is why I want to put thick lines under the need for long-term involvement in Afghanistan. But I take the fact that there have not been so many comments about it, as just an expression of a broad consensus that this is a problem that we know we need to be involved in solving in the future. I also noticed with great interest what Thorbjørn Jagland said there has been relatively little information about terrorism. I agree with him in many ways and would like to take this as an invitation to join in and put the light on that problem, because it is quite right, as he points out, that terrorism was well known before 11 September, both in Somalia and in other countries, for example. in East Africa and, to some extent, in the United States. It was a bombing of the World Trade Center before 9/11. It also gave us warnings, but should have given us warnings that we might have taken more seriously than we did. I also believe it is important to highlight the background to terrorism, but under one important condition: taking an interest in the background of terrorism must not lead to any beginning to take a relative view of it. There are actions that cannot be excused and from which clear distance must be taken. There's no need to be attached to relativism in that area. When it comes to other comments, I would first like to say to the representative, Höglund, that he is quite obviously right that we cannot be everywhere. I think it's a very important understanding that it needs to be given priority. It's expensive, and it's comprehensive. We don't have that much strength, so we have to make choices and say no to something. We need to be aware that other countries in other situations may be better positioned to take responsibility. So the important thing for us is that we, together with other countries, take a responsibility that makes us get a reasonable total coverage. That we can't go into all areas, I think it's very important that we have an understanding of. And I think it's important that we then take what others do, where we can best make a contribution, and where we also have a story. That was the background for saying that we could not contribute in the Congo. Now I heard correctly to my amazement that SV criticized that we had not said yes to that commitment. However, I would just like to remind you that in the budget configuration of the Defence Committee, the SV emphasises precisely that Norwegian soldiers are not to be deployed in EU operations. That's exactly what it was. It was the French and it was the Swedes who took on that mission. It is possible that SV has become such a large party that one hand does not know what the other is doing. But I just want to say that we have a written distance limit from that kind of SV. Back to Høglund's post: Now it would be a long way to go if he suggested that there would be an automatic connection between the peace operations we've been in and contributions. What I said, and as I stand by, was that when we've been heavy inside, as we are in Sudan, there's a expectation that we're contributing. I think as long as we have resources and opportunities, we should try to meet those expectations. That is the case in Sudan. But then it is clear that we cannot say that we automatically have contributions everywhere we are involved. It will run counter to other priorities and to the number of staff we have at our disposal, as well as to the financial resources that we have at our disposal. Therefore, I do not disagree as much with Høglund as he expressed. I think he gave us some absolutely necessary reminders that there are limits to how far we can go. So a closing remark about Afghanistan. I noticed with amazement that Åslaug Haga thought that what I said was an expression of self-criticism when it came to contributing to «Enduring Freedom». I can assure Åslaug Haga that it is not. I can't see how she could even think of it. The point is that «Enduring Freedom» was an important element of self-defense. The right to self-defence was confirmed by the UN Security Council through Resolution 1368. It was important and important to keep Taliban cancers in check. I hope that no one feels the need for self-criticism in that area. This has been an important task. I would also like to remind you of what the Minister of Defence has said many times, namely that there is a link between this mission and ISAF, not least in terms of air support. So what we've done in this area has been very sensible. But as I said, I remember Resolution 1368. It's a very special feature of Åslaug Hagas' post that she's for the United Nations, until it matters. This applies not least to Resolution 1511. Of course, you have the freedom to say that you will not follow the UN's call in Resolution 1511, but that means that you will turn your back on the UN Security Council decision. So that's what Åslaug Haga does. That's her right, but then she should probably adjust the rhetoric in other areas. Then I must note that the debate has not been very clear on the fact that there is a clear distinction between the situation in Iraq now and last year. Norway has clearly assumed that there were different opinions about the use of military resources. But once the operation came, and it ended, there is only one way forward, as has been established in several UN resolutions. It's stabilising and rebuilding the country. Therefore, the issue is whether Norway should contribute or not. I think it's a necessary and an interesting emphasis from Kristin Halvorsen's side when she says, "Yes, there is a need for military resources in Iraq." So what is SV's position is that there is a need for military means, but Norway does not contribute. There's a lot to be said about that. But it is very important, and I think it is positive, that the understanding that Iraq needs to be stabilized is at the bottom. But we've seen it so that we would contribute when we're first in a new situation, not least because taking out explosives, building bridges, is an important contribution. I just have to remind you that one of Iraq's problems is that there are too many explosives in the country that are used in ways that also dramatically affect civilian Iraqis. That's why there's a very meaningful job Norwegian soldiers do down there, and I think we should be proud of that. So we have a new situation. But what we're saying clearly is that what we're asking for now is for this six months. What we do after the next six months, it should be carefully considered when we get that far – not least, it is likely that there will have been a transition to a civil Iraqi regime, which then perhaps, or perhaps not, will send us requests. That's why SV's proposal is a little confusing. SV could achieve the same result if the Government came back with a proposal to do something in the second half of the year – and vote against that proposal in that case. The only significance of this proposal is that it is said in advance that if a civil Iraqi authority asks us for something for the second half of the year, Norway must say no without considering anything more. And then you can ask about the importance of voting on such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1223	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1226	Norwegian participation in Iraq is mandated by UN resolutions 1483 and 1511. In these resolutions, UN members are invited to participate in order to stabilise the country. For the Workers' Party, it is important that work on the reconstruction of Iraq is put in the high seat and that there are targets set for achieving lasting peace. We believe that the work on new constitution and the work on holding free and fair elections must be governed by the UN. In addition, the promise of a Palestinian State of its own and a stronger effort to establish peace between Israel and Palestine must be followed up. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what the Government thinks is going to succeed in Iraq. And what conditions does the Government think must be met for continued Norwegian participation in Iraq?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1235	To the last question, which is very operational, but is really about whether we're going to go into a debate about the second half of 2004, or whether we're going to get all the moments in place before we think anything about it: I just want to make it very clear that what the government is inviting to, is about the first six months. That means that if there's no new decision after the first six months, we're not there in the second six months. But so much is unclear in Iraq that I think we should perhaps take one thing at a time. I want to remind you that if we're going to go into the second half of the year, we have to go in with additional resources and stuff, and we won't promise that it's possible to find. So we're now inviting you to the first six months, and nothing more than that. What is important now in Iraq is to stabilise the country. The terrorist actions we see, and the resistance we see, it's in many ways just destructive. It goes beyond a lot of innocent people, not least civilian Iraqis, and therefore, as Kristin Halvorsen said, it is very important that there are also military in place in Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1242	The Minister of Foreign Affairs stressed the importance of long-term involvement in Afghanistan, and he also said that we cannot be present anywhere. The question is how we deal with future and future missions, and I think first and foremost of Sudan. The representative Lilletun thought there were more resources to go on, as he saw it. This may be the case – or will the situation rather be that we need to water down or reduce existing operations? And where does the Government intend to make that reduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1250	I don't think it's possible to answer these questions in particular now. We should probably first get a peace agreement in Sudan, and then we have to construct and build up the apparatus to monitor and control such an agreement. What Norway is going to do will depend entirely on what is needed, how these contributions are being built up, and what other countries are doing in this respect. It is simply too early to invite the Storting to a decision on this. That is why we are going no further than what I have now done, namely to express a declaration of will that we are going to be included here. But as for the extent of it, the funding of it and such questions, I just have to say that we need to do a much more thorough procedure before we can invite the Storting to a decision on it. I think it would be wise here that we get the facts in place before we draw the conclusions. A lot of the debate has been very clear on the conclusions, but it's very fine if the premises are also in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1257	Both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are going through the priority discussions that must be the basis for discussing what Norway should contribute internationally and militarily. The funny thing is that the Secretary of Defense says that the number of personnel is 1000 and the Minister of Foreign Affairs says 800 – but that was not my main point now. I wonder what the Minister for Foreign Affairs really means when, after nuanced this issue of a priority debate, he says: ‘The General Line to which the Government has submitted is that we should primarily participate in UN and NATO-led operations.’ Two major operations that we have participated in during the last, namely in ‘Enduring Freedom’ and now in Iraq, are not UN and NATO-led actions. Is this a reorientation on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in relation to how to prioritize international participation? For example, the consequences of these formulations would be: the winding-up of Iraq in order to participate in clearly UN or NATO-led actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1269	So first of all, a little bit about the numbers. I didn't say 800, but more than 800. I am aware that the Minister of Defence has mentioned 1 000. It is possible that my numbers are not quite accurate at this point, but I don't think it is crucial for the debate itself, to say what it is. So it's not like I'm giving an exact number here. As far as other questions are concerned, there's no new orientation from my side here. This is a starting point and an assessment, and we take a concrete view of the problems we are facing. I would like to remind you that there are clear UN and NATO tracks in both contexts. One, led by our Iraq operation, which is not many men, is an aid through NATO to the Polish link. I would like to remind you that these are clearly UN anchors in everything we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1279	I will follow up the representative Halvorsen's question, and that was exactly what I was also concerned about in my post. Interestingly, the government says that the general line should be for Norway to participate in UN and NATO-led operations. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has not said, and it should be lacking that we should participate in operations which are not UN mandated. That's something quite different than what you happily say in the foreign minister's posts. We can almost get the impression that the Christian People's Party formula is that we should primarily participate in UN and NATO-led operations, while the Right approach to this is that it doesn't matter; we participate in coalition operations, as we have done in ‘Enduring Freedom’ and not least in Iraq. My question is simply about deepening what this means in practice. Is this a new orientation for the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1288	That question was answered about 2 minutes ago, and the answer was no.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1293	The Foreign Minister's statement says that Norway does not have the status of an occupying party under international law. But the Norwegian forces are subject to the British 38th engineering company, both formally and effectively. And since the British regiment is part of the occupying power, it is not unthinkable to claim that the Norwegian forces participate in the occupation. In fact, these solar data are viewed by a good proportion of the local population as participants in this occupation. Legally, the British command implies that the Norwegian force can be regarded as part of the occupying force, although Norway does not have the status of an occupying force. According to Jusprofessor and international law expert Ståle Eskeland, the Norwegian quota is international law to be regarded as an occupation for this reason. In the view of SV, Norway should not act in such international grey zones. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs agree that Norway participated in the occupation, and that we are in a way operating in an international grey zone here that can be involved in international law?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1302	No, I do not agree with the assessments that the representative Jacobsen now gives. I would remind you that the situation now is that we have not least Resolution 1511 behind us. I am aware that Jacobsen has infected the previous basis, which I also believe supports this argument, that we are not part of the occupying power. But even though the representative Jacobsen should have been right in what he does not have, one must at least be aware that Resolution 1511 is clear on this point. So the answer to the question is unequivocally no.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1307	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1310	The statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence on Norwegian action in Afghanistan and Iraq in 2004 shows a great deal of post-warism. This weekend Saddam Hussein was apprehended, a dictator and mass murderer who has bullied his people for many years – still new mass graves being discovered in Iraq. According to Kofi Annan, up to 300,000 people could have been killed under Saddam's regime. Torture, rape, stoning, and killing women, children and men were common. Using the country's money, he bought his followers, who are now naturally without income. This means that the path towards democracy, law and justice can go on in time. Even though Saddam has now been captured, it probably will not mean that terrorism is over from now on. In his statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs welcomed the fact that the coalition forces have now seized Iraq's former dictator, and that Saddam can now be held responsible for the serious abuses he is behind. However, Norway was not willing to help remove the tyrant — pointing to international law and closing its eyes for the thousands of thousands killed in a bestial way without being able to invoke international law. In other words, you stuck your head in the sand and hoped it would pass. The best thing was to close your eyes. Fortunately, there were some who could say that enough is enough, and who went to action when it turned out that the UN Security Council could not agree to end the suffering of the people. But the Security Council has now unanimously adopted Resolution 1483, which requires former members of the Iraqi regime to be held responsible for their crimes and atrocities. Something late, you ask me. Fortunately, Norway has also woken up and offered to contribute to the country’s recovery. We hope that a functioning Iraqi autonomy will soon be a reality. But it requires that the United States and the United Kingdom, who did the rough work, and the other countries, including Norway, who have now come up with better ideas, become normalized in the country. This means that with the strengths now available to Norway in various countries, including Afghanistan and Kosovo, strict priority is needed in the use of our military forces. If we are unable to create a security situation that enables the UN or aid organisations to operate their activities in the interests of the Iraqi population, we have failed. Therefore, Norway should remain in Iraq until the situation is under control before we look for new countries that need help. We don't have enough crew or capacity to be anywhere where military presence is wanted, and with the dismantling of the Norwegian defence that is now taking place, you might want to think about having a defence of Norway as well. The Minister of Defence said in his statement: ‘Norwegian military units shall, in principle, be able to react at home as quickly as outside, and the Norwegian defence is therefore composed mainly of intervention forces.’ Yeah, I really hope so. A country with 4.5 million inhabitants must be expected to have such a credible defence at home that, in a conflict, we can get help from our allies, primarily the United States and NATO. In my opinion, a separate EU defence is a derailment of the debate. This testifies to the refusal of decision in the current 15 countries. It may not be better with another 10 countries next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1324	The main tasks, and what will determine the size and the device of the Norwegian defence, are not, in the SV's view, to participate in international operations, but, first, to enforce jurisdiction and sovereignty in its own areas, such as: related to the fishing and petroleum resources in our vast seas and, secondly, to being able to deter a potential enemy from attacking our land areas in a given situation, i.e. a defensive defence in a situation where the invasion risk is very low. In recent years, however, the defence has changed dramatically towards a structure of highly expensive high-tech equipment and soldiers that is well-suited to interact with NATO in offensive international operations, a development which has been reinforced by the Minister of Defence’s premise for the Military Investigation, and which largely reflects the idea that Norway should play a different role than the traditional one. The role is described as a so-called pre-estimation of Norwegian security through participation in international operations, also of a more proactive/preventive nature, i.e. an zeal for participation in such a way that we can help to start wars in order to secure Norwegian security. This is justified by an idea that the risk picture is unpredictable, that everything can happen, concretely stated in a thought that we can be subjected to new types of attacks, such as information attacks, attacks with weapons of mass destruction and terrorist attacks, and that such challenges must be combated militarily outside their territory. This is what we have seen in recent years through the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. This is a very dangerous strategy based on the fear of the unforeseeable, rather than a calculated assessment of what we want to defend, and what kind of instruments are then necessary. It has brought us from a defense that has its most important tasks in the Peacetime Organization, and to a defense that is intended for warfare. NATO is a very strong driving force behind this vision, not least through the development of the ‘out of area’ strategy, the PCC, the NATO Response Force and the new command structure. The Minister of Defense keeps saying that this development is necessary, also because the military capabilities we are now developing are suitable for, in addition to warfare outside, defense at home. But are they? If terrorism is the threat, are there frigates, new fighter planes and missile torpedo boats we need? The answer is no. Let us take a closer look at the threat of terrorism: in the opinion of many and also the SV, terrorism is essentially a matter of intelligence – it is a matter of finding the terrorist before he is harmed. Civil instruments must be given priority over military use if the aim is to avoid the terrorist attack. SV believes that participation in international military operations may be necessary in some situations, but that through both ‘Enduring Freedom’ in Afghanistan and the stabilisation force in Iraq, we have rotted into military operations with unclear objectives and poor effects. In addition, they do not necessarily give us greater security, but appear to be a maintenance project of political loyalty over the Atlantic. We should end this with. Instead, we should prioritise participation in international operations militarily where there is good anchoring in the UN system, and where we support our role as a peace-building nation. This is a debate where the focus should be on the fact that the international operations we are going to be involved must be well anchored in the UN, give an effect to the efforts we put in, help to strengthen the security of the nation, and not weaken it. This forms the basis for SV's assessments of which international operations we want Norway to participate in, and in such a discussion obviously belongs not only to the effect we can get of military efforts with, but also to the alternatives. And it makes no sense to claim that there are no alternatives. There are always alternatives to military action. It is expensive to make military efforts in relation to civil action, as it is, for example. Turns out in Iraq, where Norwegian People's Aid has removed five times as many explosives as the Norwegian Defense, at one-fifth of the cost. A Norwegian miner costs 72 times more than one from a humanitarian organization. In addition, military humanitarian operations create major problems for organisations that coordinate and engage in civil humanitarian action. This is one of the reasons why SV believes that we need to get out of the stabilisation force in Iraq – and, of course, we have always believed it – but we recognise that the continuation in Iraq was decided through the budget, and that the possibilities of bringing the forces home immediately are greatly reduced. Rather, we want to spend resources on civil humanitarian aid and on efforts to reduce the level of conflict across the region. Finally, Norway has limited military resources, where a large proportion of the available resources are actually out. If we're going to increase military resource use somewhere now, we need to reduce efforts elsewhere. SV is not, as you know, dependent on increasing our total capacity for participation in international military operations. It is therefore important that resources are redispatched.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1345	I do not disagree with the fact that there is an important debate SV takes on board when trying to find a balance between contributing to peace and reconciliation and participating in military operations. I just think they're drawing a wrong conclusion when they're so afraid of entering into controversial assignments that they can get from SV. This is not a question of being invisible in controversial conflicts, but it is a matter of trusting in conflicting parties, and it may be both small and large. So it would be quite wise to focus on having confidence in different directions and respect for different directions, as much as this fear of entering into controversial situations. When it comes to the distributions, it is said earlier from the Workers' Party that the scheme presented by the Government in the two distributions is essentially in line with the priorities of the Workers' Party. So I'm going to make a few more comments about what might be a little bit further, and also a few more reasons for the commitment we have. Even when it comes to the reform of defence, there is a significant deal in all of this, that we should put great emphasis on international operations, and that we should also focus on being credible partners when we enter into a mission. That is to say, as the Foreign Minister also pointed out, that we have a will to be long, if necessary. We're not going to be the ones that disappear when the television lights go out. We're going to be able to be there, and we're going to be able to think about two strategies at the same time. We're going to be active in NATO's specialisation and division of labour with the duties and commitments that come from joining the arrangement with a reaction force of our own in NATO. It gives us bonds, and it gives us obligations, but we're also going to be able to participate in assignments that make us stand for a long time. Because I believe the world in the future will demand not only forces that can quickly enter and move out quickly. There will also be a need for forces that are able to endure for a longer period of time, and will be able to build the bridges between the military conflict and civil society that I have the impression that the Foreign Minister also paid great attention to in his intervention. Then we have to make sure that the bonds that we join in line with the alliance commitments are not going to make it impossible for us to participate in operations, including operations outside the alliance, that require us to stay standing for a long time. I'm not trying to construct a contradiction between these two, but it's important that in the debate we are able to present both of these lines, so that we don't just get involved in the development of a defense that is only able to participate in the fast expressions and in and of itself the fast withdrawals. We need to be able to participate in longer-term operations and maybe operations that are more similar to the old-fashioned UN operations. They can show up faster than we know, and one of them, we have suggested in the debate here, might be up to date. Both the Council of State Krohn Devold and the Minister of Foreign Affairs were concerned that Sudan could become a reality. There may be a completely different type of operation than what we're used to, and there will be an example that we have to be able to balance our resources between binding them to alliance commitments and being involved in operations that are not similar to those we've been used to in the last few days and in the last few months. What must then be a point is that, in addition to specialisation within the alliance, there will and should be a Norwegian speciality and a European speciality to build bridges between military conflict and civil society. And that also means, if you look at it in the light of some of the conflicts we're in, that we're probably standing up, for example. in Kosovo for a time to come, as the Government also suggested, but perhaps in a different way than we have now, because, hopefully, a solution to the conflict can approach. Perhaps the Minister of Defense was a little quick to find that what someone calls conversations between Belgrade and Pristina, as they said, has its final status as a topic. As far as I know, it doesn't. To the extent that it can be called conversations, there are other, more trivial things that are discussed than the end status. But there might be something here that I don't know about, and that's to the extent that it's a pretty common situation. As a starting point, I hope that there are final status negotiations going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1357	First of all, I would like to thank you for your broad support in Stortinget for what is the Government's line in relation to our international commitment. I was also very pleased with the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland's contributions, especially that he stressed the importance of justifying why we are taking part, namely the fight against terrorism, and that he stressed what social frustration and desperation can provide as a basis for terror. I feel that what we are doing in Iraq is just about giving people hope, a little less of a basis for desperation and hope that is lacking, and a little less of a basis for excitation and violence. So I want to tell you exactly what our people did in Iraq when I came to visit them in September. It was right after a heat wave, and there was quite a bit of an atmosphere in the local population. And why? Well, because no one got power, neither to fan, air conditioning, nor to anything else that was important for the living conditions of the individual family. In addition, there were long queues in front of the refuelling stations. It was chaotic conditions and heated mood. What our people got as their main task was to rebuild the power towers that were torn down by criminals every night to steal copper in the power towers. We replaced this with aluminium, raised them up again, and it provided the basis for basic services for those who live in southern Iraq. In addition, the refinery lacked electricity, and the refinery was like the processed petroleum, and it processed the gas, which was to go to the households again, which would give them the opportunity to make food for their children. When such things don't work, a hope that the people of southern Iraq had had for a long time, after many, many years with Saddam Hussein's regime, and he wasn't particularly kind to the people of the Basra region. What makes me start with this, is firstly that I think Thorbjørn Jagland's posts were important, and then that I noticed an article in the Evening Post yesterday that has a quote from one in Iraq, namely the following: ‘See how we feel now that Saddam is gone. Often we don't have electricity, there are several kilometers of queues in front of the gas stations, we can't afford to buy enough food." Those who are dissatisfied in Iraq are just dissatisfied because these essential services are missing. That is why the Norwegian military effort is so important. I am pleased that the majority of the population not only supports the stabilisation forces, but is also of the clear opinion that the population of Iraq, the population of Basra, had a clear desire for the stabilisation forces to stand there for at least a year, that is. until summer. And then we'll see what happens next, if we get an Iraqi government, if we get new needs. So to the constructed conflict between military presence, aid organisations and other types of civil aid and reconstruction. The more people that help, the better. The more people who have the capacity to clear mines and explosives, the better. There are more than enough tasks for everyone. But the situation in Basra is that a lot of people have pulled out because they feel it's too dangerous to be there. The last time I was visiting, I was told that there was a humanitarian organization that had placed its equipment within the fence for the military, praying that they would take care of it until they thought it safe enough to come back. When our people are driving around in an armored vehicle with significant personal protection on the way to and from their explosive destructive missions, it's precisely because of the security situation. There are no people in line to do just that job. Everyone who wants is cordially welcome. I would like to take this opportunity to say that I am fundamentally proud of the efforts of Norwegian women and men in our forces in Iraq. They're doing a fantastic job, and, to a previous post here today, they're doing what they were sent to do, and they're doing what they're trained to do. I am not only grateful to those who are there, but I am deeply grateful for the backing they have from their immediate family, not least now when we go into Christmas. There are many of them who are there, who will not have the opportunity to celebrate Christmas with their neighbors, because they are in Iraq for an important reason. They are there because a clear majority on the Storting has agreed that there is an important reason. They do it loyally, and they benefit themselves. Several have indicated that we can face congestion situations in relation to international operations. That's why we have half-yearly planning, and that's why half-yearly planning is so important. At the same time, I want to say that we're recruiting in different ways for international operations. Some of us are recruiting from the fixed, standing forces. There, of course, we have limitations. But we can also recruit on contract people who have experience from the Defense from the past. That's what we did to a large extent, for example. to Lebanon, and we have less capacity restrictions on that type of recruitment. In relation to some of the UN operations, there has been this type of recruitment we have been able to use, so that there has been no fighting about the same resources. We have been able to handle both tasks. I feel that some of the speakers from SV have tried to devalue the efforts of the Norwegian explosives. The point is not whether the explosives that have been destroyed come from a warehouse or whether they have been lying out in the field. The point is whether they can pose any danger to civilians. The situation in southern Iraq is such that large amounts of explosives are unlocked and can be used by anyone, if not destroyed. Ensuring the civilian population from the non-future use of such explosives is important. But it's not the traditional mine clearance that's been our main mission down there, because the mines are largely marked and familiar and can probably be destroyed by others than by the Defense. The defense and the engineering team have had a wide range of tasks, all that I mentioned in the presentation. We do every day the task that there is the greatest need to do, based on what the civilian population needs. I also want to add that there is a big difference between explosives. Here it is not only the number that counts, but also the type of explosive, the hazard of the explosive, and whether special EOD competence or special vehicles and equipment are required to destroy. There have been several people who have wondered whether we have now marked a line break in relation to which operations we are going into. There the foreign minister said clearly: there is no line change. But what we find out is that we are, for example, dealing with the problem. in Afghanistan goes from a situation without a role for NATO, because it was a coalition that drove ISAF, the United Nations mandate, and it was a coalition called Operation Enduring Freedom, in accordance with Article 5 of NATO, to a situation in which, as of August, we have gained NATO into a leading role in ISAF, which means that our commitments are stronger in ISAF than they have been. That makes me, as Minister of Defence, have moved the resources associated with our international operations from Operation Enduring Freedom to ISAF, because that is right, and also because we are in a phase of the conflict down there that makes the kind of repriorization necessary. But it doesn't have to be that someone thinks that we don't fully support Operation Enduring Freedom, because the air support from Operation Enduring Freedom is still just as crucial for us to be able to participate in the ISAF operation that we can get air support in a given threat situation. There has been a lot of talk about the role of NATO and the role of the United Nations, and there has been talk about which operations are most dangerous or least dangerous to our personnel. To that is to say, it's not who's leading an operation, which determines how dangerous it is. Therefore, we need to have top equipment that is adapted to the threat situation of the individual operation. The threat situation can often be as high in an operation led by the UN as in an operation led by NATO or others. That's why we also need to have a wide range of investment funds for Defence that allows us to address the threat situation for our people, regardless of which operation they enter. In conclusion, I am very pleased that it has been so clearly stated that we have a crystal clear UN mandate, and that there is a need for stabilisation forces in Iraq, although some people believe that there should have been countries other than Norway that were in the stabilisation forces. I am pleased with the consensus the debate so far has shown, and would like to end by thanking our people for the wonderful effort they are making in all our international operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1403	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1406	The debate on international operations is sometimes held at press releases based on a slightly different agenda from the one on which the operations are based. An example of this is when the Joint Organisation of the Order is very concerned that the forces in Iraq are not carrying out civil tasks, because that is when they get higher security supplements. Another example is that the General Inspector General of the Army today – or through the Dagblade – uses the broad agreement on Sudan to influence the treatment of the military professional investigation in order to get the greatest possible army at the expense of, as far as I know, the Air Force and the Marine. But a little independent of this: there is now a broad consensus on sending Norwegian forces to Sudan. But in the light of the debate on how many soldiers and forces we can have out, and at the same time have sufficient readiness at home, I would ask the Minister of Defense to say a little more about whether we have the necessary capabilities for the width it is now being added to internationally, and whether we have the necessary reserves if it were to show up operations that we have to go into at short notice. I show you, among other things: to the contributions of Blankenborg in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1415	I would first like to stress what the Foreign Minister said earlier today, namely that if there is a peace agreement, we will positively assess an enquiry. But we must therefore clarify the needs and the funding. I understood that the representative Nybakk's question was about capacity. To that I would say that if the Sudan operation were to become something that is close to what UN operations have been going on, it is very often observers who are being asked for, and observers can be recruited, as I described it, from a reserve list, to use a popular expression. It will not have a capacity limit in relation to the resources we attract from standing forces to other operations. But these are speculations. We're always going to deal with the capacity, with the bottom of it that no one can be two places at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1422	There has been a lot of Iraq and foreign operations today, and so should it. But I'm going to ask the Minister of Defense something else. ‘The defence is in the middle of a radical transformation. We adapt Defence to new national and international framework conditions. The objective is to have high-quality, high-responsive strengths that are relevant and effective in relation to the range of tasks, both at home and abroad.» The Minister of Defence said this in his presentation. I fully agree with that. Now, however, it is a reality that the framework for defence has been broken and reduced, i.e. less money. Then I have to ask the Minister for Defence: does she mean that a smaller defence must necessarily cost less, and/or does she believe that our defence capacity should be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1432	I believe that a smaller defence can mean a better defense if the Defense we have, the ability to achieve greater effect in a concrete operation. The reason for this is that the very point of modernisation is to go away from a traditional mobilization defence, which took a long time to mobilise, which was large in volume but could not respond either in Norway or outside. When we move from a voluminous mobilization defense to a small, tangible defense, we increase our ability to react both at home and out with less volume. But with regard to the money, I would like to remind the representative, Width, that this government has increased the appropriations by approx. Two billion dollars since we went on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1437	I'm a little concerned about what's available military capacity in international operations until next year. Can the Minister of Defence indicate the total number of people available for international operations next year, provided that we are talking about contributions of the kind we now have in Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq? Secondly, Norway has reported capacities to the NATO Response Force for next year. Can the Minister of Defence say something about what contributions we have submitted for next year, and whether these are included in the number of persons described as available resources in the answer to the first question? Is it so that when we calculate with NRF, there is no available capacity for e.g. Sudan? Or is it that strengths we've registered in the NRF are to be used in one of the international operations we're already involved in?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1444	It has no intention whatsoever of quantifying the number of people who can be assigned to international missions, simply because we are recruiting from a mixture of people who have permanent positions, which is part of the permanent forces in the Defence, and former members of the Defence Force who have experience and who can be recruited into contract. The last category is, of course, significant. It is the last category that has often made up our volumes, those that are contracted, both in Kosovo and, in fact, in Lebanon and other UN operations. That's why, as I've said before, it's fully possible to recruit personnel for a UN operation where we're talking about observers, for example, without affecting other operations we're in. In the case of the NATO Response Force, we plan to contribute there, so that it does not conflict with ongoing international operations that we are in, but then we talk more about capacities of the kind of special forces, fighter aircraft, etc., which are not particularly relevant in a mission of à la Sudan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1453	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1456	Today’s debate stems from the wish of a majority in the United Kingdom to have an open and broad review of the military operations in which Norway participates, as well as an assessment of future participation in such operations. Openness and good democratic processes are important behind decisions to participate in military operations. The government, through two comprehensive presentations, has contributed to a thorough review and the starting point for the debate. It has been added to participation in foreign operations for a total of 700 million. kr next year, and a large number of military personnel will be engaged in demanding and partly risky tasks. Both the security of our soldiers, the political and economic consequences of our participation must be carefully assessed. It is also important to state that most of the Defence and Response Forces are at home and ready to respond to various threats and crises that may be in the hands of civil society. But today's threat picture requires that we also have to be willing to participate in international military operations. Our participation is based on the will to contribute to peace and stability in conflict areas of importance to our own, as well as to international security. The need to participate has been reinforced since 11 September. There is reason to stress that military presence is often a necessary condition for positive economic and political development following an armed conflict. The military presence cannot be a substitute for humanitarian or development aid. On the contrary, such assistance is very important elements in the work on long-term peace and reconciliation. Norwegian non-governmental organisations are very often doing a formidable job here. The background to the fierce debate on Norwegian military participation in Iraq is partly the conceptual confusion created about what is military and what is humanitarian. Here it's probably best to call a spade for a spade and not try to stick under the chair that it's about military personnel, even though the tasks may be partly humanitarian. Many ask questions about Norwegian military involvement in Iraq following an attack war that Norway countered on the grounds of insufficient international law. Here it is important to stress that the Norwegian participation in the stabilisation force in Iraq has its mandate in UN Resolutions 1483 and 1511. Here, the UN Member States were clearly invited to participate in Iraq to stabilise the country. The attack on Saddam Hussein was a very important, but far from sufficient, condition for achieving lasting peace in the country. I would like to stress that the precondition for Norwegian participation in Iraq by the Labour Party is that the UN must direct the work on new constitution and the holding of free and fair elections. Furthermore, we call for a much stronger effort for lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians to ensure stability in the region. In Afghanistan, there will be a need for both military presence and comprehensive humanitarian aid to stabilise the situation in Afghanistan and ensure peaceful and democratic development. In addition, Norway must be positive in contributing forces in Sudan, if it becomes applicable in the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1477	The last year has been marked by the Iraq conflict. The issue created strong tensions within key security policy forums such as the UN Security Council and NATO. Norway's position on the war against Iraq was clear: we could not support this war. The government did not consider that there was a sufficiently clear mandate for international law and that the matter had to be dealt with further in the UN Security Council. We felt that the possibilities of moving forward with peaceful means were not exhausted. On 21 March this year I gave the Stortinget an explanation of the matter, and I said among other things. the following: ‘We wanted to resolve the Iraq conflict peacefully. Now it's being settled by military means. Winning the war is one thing. Something completely different is to win the peace afterwards.’ It was the government's analysis of the situation at the time. The time afterward has confirmed the truth of those words. It's hard to win the peace. Saddam Hussein was for decades a despot who tyrantized his own people, used chemical weapons against the Kurds, and started two warriors against neighboring countries. The consequences were enormous losses of human life and the impoverishment of his own country, the ancient cultural nation of Iraq. On TV we could all see the big statue of the tyrant being demolished. It was a symbol act. Saddam Hussein's regime had fallen. That made us happy. A few days ago Saddam Hussein was also taken in the persona. He was not torn down from a position of power or taken in battle. He was, on the contrary, pulled up from a hole of earth where he hid himself, alone, dirty, tired and languid on his hair. Clearly, the present abstinence of the old ruler could not be demonstrated. Now we look forward to him being held responsible for his actions in legal proceedings. It must meet the demands of the State of law, a right which he himself did not grant to his own countrymen. The starting point of international law is that it is the individual state responsible for the prosecution. International mechanisms, such as the International Criminal Court, are only a safety net for cases where national systems do not fulfil this responsibility. After Iraq was de facto and international law occupied, we were over in a new situation. World society too had to look forward. Iraq needed stabilisation, reconstruction, peace and democracy. The goal is to give the Iraqis back power in their own country, or rather, to give the Iraqi people power over their own country for the first time in history. In this situation, there is a need for the help of the world community. Norway, too, has joined forces. This year, we're providing assistance for about 200 million. kr. This is channelled primarily through the UN, the Red Cross system and other non-governmental organisations providing humanitarian aid. So in addition, we've sent military crews. Their mission is to contribute to reconstruction and other measures of great importance to the civilian population. We therefore carry out, among other things: explosive cleaning and repairing bridges, roads, water supply and power supply. The use of armed power is not part of the mission, but of course you have to be able to defend yourself. Our forces are part of the stabilisation force, not part of the occupying power. Norwegian forces are involved in stabilisation and reconstruction at the request of the United Nations. The basis of international law for the contribution is clear. Two UN Security Council resolutions, 1483 and in particular 1511, show this. We must continue to help the Iraqi people. Humanitarian aid will be continued. Norway has also committed itself to this at the Madrid Conference. On Monday, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence also presented the Government's plans to continue the efforts of the Norwegian engineering company until the summer. Any further continuation of the Norwegian contribution must be assessed during the spring. We need to make strict priorities for participation in international operations. UN operations and NATO operations take priority, as the Foreign Minister made it clear in his presentation. In February, I quoted Norway's Minister for Foreign Affairs for a number of years, Halvard Lange. During a big debate in 1956, he said the following: ‘But there are two principles of Norwegian foreign policy that will always have to come before all other obligations. It is the duty to comply with the Charter of the United Nations, and it is the duty not to do anything that could harm the United Nations as an organisation.» These are principles that we still have to follow. Norway has always argued that the UN Security Council has the primary responsibility for maintaining international peace and security. The UN is one of the carriers of our foreign and security policy. We must work within the framework of the World Organisation when looking for solutions in international conflicts. The government wants the UN Peace Organisation to be the most powerful instrument possible. Therefore, Norway will conclude on the UN peacekeeping operations around the world. We have limited resources, but we set up. As the Minister of Defence said in his statement, Norway contributes to a number of UN operations, in the Middle East, in Ethiopia and Eritrea and in the Balkans. We have recently carried out missions for the UN in Congo and Liberia. We also have military personnel in Sudan. And as the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated, if there is a peace agreement for Sudan, the Government will positively consider participating with Norwegian personnel in a UN-led force. ISAF in Afghanistan is both a UN operation and a NATO operation. Of course, Norway should participate in this operation. In ISAF, we represent the two organisations that are central to our security and foreign policy, the UN and NATO. We are primarily in favour of the Afghan people. For decades they have suffered from unrest, war and poverty. The Taliban regime is a fugitive, but still poses a threat. The UN-led democratisation process threatens the position of local warlords and drug lords. We can't let Afghanistan fall into their claws again. Norway must support the UN and the work of a democratic Afghanistan. We have a moral responsibility for this. The Government will therefore also make Afghanistan a major co-operation country. We also suggest that the contribution to ISAF be continued and, if necessary, strengthened through participation in the so-called Provincial Reconstruction Teams. Such stabilisation efforts are important for the Afghans, for democratisation and for ensuring sufficient security for humanitarian organisations and the UN to work there. In this way, Norwegian military contributions are put into an overall Norwegian foreign policy for peace and development, for human rights and democracy. Only when military efforts promote such values can Norwegian forces be deployed in international military operations. I would also like to say that the Norwegian forces abroad should know that they are doing an important task and that they have full support from the Norwegian authorities. Let me also finally express my satisfaction with the broad consensus that exists in the Storting on these issues, primarily between the government parties and the Workers' Party, as expressed in particular in the contributions of the Committee leader Thorbjørn Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1529	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1532	It smelled Christmas from that conclusion of the Prime Minister, and the Labour Party has the same priorities as the Government when it owes contributions abroad in the first six months. In addition to the debate, a number of individual issues have emerged which could still be considered. The issue of our ever-missing resources and funding, as it is called – and with particular emphasis on funding beyond the debate. From the Labour Party's side, we have also said that it may be relevant to participate in an operation in Sudan if there is peace, and if there are questions, etc., but we cannot discuss only what is safe, because then there will be no discussions. But as the Foreign Minister said, it is a expectation that we will participate. So the Minister of Defence, with great emphasis on funding, says that people can be found, but the funding needs to be clarified. I want an assurance from the Prime Minister that the Government is actually forbidden to participate in Sudan if the question comes, etc., and that one is forbidden to find money and crew.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1543	As the Foreign, Defence and Prime Minister have said, if there is a peace agreement and there is a request to Norway, which I believe is very likely, we will accept and evaluate it positively. There's a pretty strong signal in there. There is a signal that we are preparing for such a situation. On the other hand, it is also important to remember that the Stortinget, the Workers' Party and the government parties together have granted 700 million, as far as I remember. kr to international operations. We have to look for a solution within that framework. There is greater uncertainty regarding Norway’s contribution to stabilisation in Iraq in the second half of the year. I therefore see the possibility, whether the enquiry comes from Sudan, of finding a solution to this. Let me finally take this opportunity to correct myself a little. I knew that Afghanistan had been taken up as the main cooperation country for Norway. It's like a co-operative country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1552	There are two things that are being discussed today. One is the principles behind Norway’s participation internationally in military personnel, and the other is capacity and priorities. Whether we can't get a clearly defined number of Norway can contribute internationally from the Minister of Defence, we're talking about about about 1,000 plus maybe, depending on the nature of any mission. As far as the principles are concerned, it is very unclear to me what applies to the Government. What is said, both from the Prime Minister and from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is that the general line of government has been set up, is that we should primarily participate in UN and NATO-led operations. This means that the two largest contributions Norway has made in recent years, namely ‘Enduring Freedom’ in Afghanistan and now the stabilisation force in Iraq, are contrary to the principle of both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs themselves. How does this relate to each other, and how will this be followed up in future priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1561	I maintain what the Foreign, Defence and Prime Minister have stressed, that we are primarily involved in UN and NATO-led operations, but we have been in situations where we have had to deviate from this. Afghanistan was an example of this in the start-up phase. There we felt an obligation to participate in the fight against terrorism, and it was also triggered by Article 5 of the NATO Pact. We had a liability. Although the operation we took part in there, initially not NATO-led, it had a anchoring in NATO. Now, as we know, NATO has entered the ISAF force, and we are now prioritizing our efforts in terms of military forces in Afghanistan, in terms of ISAF and have phased us out of ‘Enduring Freedom’. That is where we are now in the pact with the main principle. As far as Iraq is concerned, the situation has not been such that it has led to a UN-led operation so far, but our commitment has a clear anchor in two UN resolutions, in particular Resolution 1511. This happens with the UN as a back cover.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1568	I understand the government there that Norway will, after all, withdraw the forces from Iraq after the first six months of 2004. We think it's good. I would like to hear a little bit more from the head of the Government about how you think, and what assessments you make of this. Do you think there will be no need to have forces in Iraq after the first six months, that the situation has changed? Or is it that NATO's new call-out force will seize so much resources that it is not possible to maintain the commitment? Or does the government begin to realize that it might not have been so politically wise to have soldiers there?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1575	To start from below in this series of three questions, whether it might not be so wise to have soldiers there: well, I still believe that it was and that it is wise to contribute to stabilisation, because it is so necessary for Iraq to get the situation stabilized. It is therefore necessary to rebuild the country. It's so important to get explosives cleared. And on the other hand, this comes after a resolution by the United Nations Security Council, which called for contributions to stabilisation. I had hoped that the representative Haga, who attaches such great importance to the United Nations, and who actually has a working background from the United Nations, placed greater emphasis on the Security Council's resolutions. Whether it will be possible for resource reasons is too early to say. We have a total framework that Stortinget has granted. So far, we have to stay inside of it. We think it is possible to continue in Iraq, but whether it will be a need – which is the third question – is too early to say. We hope there will be an Iraqi transitional regime in the first six months, and we have to deal with it. Whether it will define such needs, we don't know. We know that other countries, like Japan, are on their way in. It can also change the need situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1584	The world is increasingly spending money on arms and defence, now showing quite fresh figures from the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The increase is up to NOK 430 billion. The money we'd rather have seen that we'd had to clear debts, eliminate poverty, etc., but they're going to be used in international operations. The positive thing about speech is that in Asia, Latin America and Africa, the use of weapons and defenses goes down. On the other hand, in our part of the world – the rich part – the increase is enormous. Poor countries now feel that funds that should have gone to aid and to cancel debts are going to clean up after rich countries' own wars. Does the Prime Minister see that the direction is wrong, that we are investing too much on weapons and too little on aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1589	Yes, I would like to see the world community spend less money on weapons and more on assistance. I think we in Norway have found a good balance in terms of our contributions. The reason why defence is still resource-intensive despite the end of the Cold War are new challenges and new technologies, which means that if one is to participate somehow, one must do so at the technological level on which the Defense is now based. Our forces will become more mobile, including in order to move out of NATO's service. I think it is an important task to be able to participate in international operations, because international operations are often important also to ensure a peace solution for poor people. There are many poor people in Afghanistan, there are many poor people in Iraq, despite the fact that countries are rich in resources, and helping to stabilise the situation for them can also help the poor. But aid is to be stepped up in Norway, and it should be stepped up much more in other countries, not least the rich, which provide too little.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1594	There has been a small debate in this Chamber on whether or not to give priority to UN and NATO-led operations, and whether or not this is in line with the actual situation. We agree that we should give priority to UN and NATO-led operations. But is it not the main point that the operation must be based on international law in the UN, possibly in NATO, that it is the mandate that is important, not necessarily who is in charge of the operation, i.e. who is in charge? We must certainly be prepared for the constant emergence of acute situations in special areas, where it may be appropriate that we have a force led by a coalition, provided that the mandate is anchored in the United Nations. I would warn against either – or – thinking here, and would like to ask if the Prime Minister does not agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1600	The answer to the question is yes. The main point is that the operation is based on international law, but I also see it as a great advantage – and it is in line with what the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence have said – that they can be UN-led or NATO-led. But it can't be a principle that's driven so far that we have to give up if that's not the case. To take the case of Afghanistan. The operation was not initially NATO-led, as we know, but it was, among other things, a NATO commitment that led us to participate, and then it is anchored in international law and the UN. With regard to the operation in Iraq, it also has a clear anchor in international law – not least from Security Resolution 1511 – but is managed as not known by the UN or NATO. We like to see that both the UN and NATO can lead more and more operations, and I think NATO is now being able to do it in more and more cases. But, as I said, I agree with Mr Nybakk's point, the main issue must be international law and its anchoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1609	The cord shift is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1612	So far out in the debate, I think it would be natural to spend my 5 minutes trying to draw up what I've got out of it. It might be a little bit less interesting, but at least it's worth the try. Let me first say something to SV's Kjetil Bjørklund, who rams up all the weapons systems we don't need if, as he says, it's terrorism that's the threat. Then it's just the answer: SV will cut $4.4 billion on the defence budget. It has, among other things, the consequence that there will be 1 100 fewer people in the Army. They go against both frigates and MTBs. So the contrast that SV is trying to create between international operations and national sovereignty does not exist within the SV defence budget. It simply won't be anything to exercise sovereignty enforcement with. When Kristin Halvorsen assures that the forces will be equipped with the necessary safety equipment, the answer is also that such equipment will not be provided with the SV defence budget. Kristin Halvorsen failed to respond to my call for her to deal with UN Security Council Resolutions 1483 and 1511. On the other hand, she goes back and will talk to life and death about what happened in connection with the war and immediately after the war. SV is in the past, they are in the roundabout, and they are not coming out of it. It would not in itself have to worry so much, if it wasn't for that they were in, together with Åslaug Haga, to spread misunderstandings about and suspicion of the Norwegian effort, especially now in Iraq. They call it a ‘combination’ of humanitarian and other efforts. They use one of the so-called Non-Governmental Organizations – they're probably not so much 'Non-Governmental' when it comes to it – and their definition of whether this is a war with humanitarian aspects. There I think my answer is very clear: it is always interesting to listen to people, but why not listen to the United Nations, who in two resolutions have stated that these are things we want to participate in, in which we are strongly encouraged to participate, and where the United Nations even uses power to achieve the objectives of stability that the United Nations itself sets? Therefore, the debate becomes so that we are back in exactly the same situation as we were in relation to Afghanistan and Enduring Freedom, where the humanitarian effort on land was totally dependent on our military presence. President Karzai was in Norway and thanked F-16, on the grounds that the possibility of clearing up the country was that the worst bandits could be kept away from those who were engaged in humanitarian work and reconstruction. Exactly the same quotation we now have in Iraq. The Iraqi Foreign Minister was interviewed on the TV 2 news on Monday, and the whole essence of what he said – I don't think I need to quote an English passage here – was that the local people had great help from the Norwegian forces, they were very welcome to stay, and he hoped they were able to stay there until they themselves had control of the security situation. I do not believe that Norwegian foreign policy should be governed by what other countries' foreign ministers and presidents say, but it must be a cross of thought for us that, in addition to UN resolutions, we also get this strong support from those who have the shoe on and should know the pressure best. In addition, I agree with the strong commitment shown by the Minister of Defence to the Norwegian forces. It is bad that those doing this job should be suspected of the job they are doing – not just that it is said that they are not doing a very good job in relation to what others could have done, but it is even said that their job ‘disallows’ the work for others. It's quite unheard of.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1629	The representative, Morten Höglund, initially presented the views and opinions of the Progress Party, both in terms of foreign and defence policy. But there is still a need to make some reflections. The Minister of Defence has, I think, explained Norway's participation in multinational foreign operations in a transparent and straightforward way. She gave us a picture of what the Government intends to do with regard to the foreign operations, in the first place, and this should open up a broad debate. But even though it was transparent, you have to agree far from agreeing with everything. The Progress Party has largely supported the Government in the objective and deployment. Let me immediately stress that our foreign forces are doing a very good job and have our full support. The Norwegian forces have made excellent efforts, measured against foreign forces in other countries, to tackle cooperation with the forces of other countries, as well as to improve the confidence of the local population, which is crucial to stabilising conditions. In the course of the debate, it has also emerged that there is broad support for these views in the Grand Duchy. In his statement, the Minister of Defence says that the defence ensures that: ‘the compartments are equipped with various types of protective equipment, from bulletproof vests and helmets to armoured vehicles’. I assume that our soldiers are equipped with the best available of self-defence equipment, hand and department weapons, armored special vehicles and armored weapons. Everything else would be unmistakable. In the past, the Minister of Defence has assured us of this. But this stands for me in a somewhat strange contrast to the fact that the head of defense points out that it is precisely these things that concern him most after the defence budget has been adopted. The budget goes heavily on the Army, which is the rootstock of our foreign soldiers. For the Army, this implies inter alia: the proposed cut on the material side, which will go beyond investments into armoured special purpose vehicles and armoured weapons. This has an impact on the army's ability to protect itself in force and mobility. This will also mean the postponement of the ‘New Weapons of Hand and Department’ project, which will prevent the major modernisation of the military equipment from being implemented as planned. This project shall include, inter alia: contribute to a strongly improved capacity for our foreign forces. In connection with the conversion of the defence, it has always been said that the time required for an invasion defence is over. The challenge in relation to this transition is that we must also have a credible defence of Norwegian interests. The Minister of Defence has stated on a number of occasions that there are small, mobile and well-trained forces we are going to bet on in the Defence. This is of course to be able to adapt the defense to the needs of NATO. In this context, however, we must not forget that we must also have forces that can be used for assistance in Norway. These are forces that need to represent a certain volume, precisely because there may be a need for action in several areas at the same time. Previously, HV was an alternative in this way, but with the development we are now seeing through the Military Investigation, it seems that even HV should be made small and mobile. Who, then, is going to represent the volume capacity of the defense? With today's defence budget, we see that it is necessary to prioritize between the tasks that the defence will solve. It is therefore important that Norway contribute strengths in those operations that have a relevance to Norwegian security and foreign policy. Furthermore, the contributions must be appropriate to the nature and duration of the mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1651	The views of the Christian People's Party on the foreign missions of the Norwegian military forces are presented in contributions from the representative Lilletun, in terms of support for military participation in Afghanistan, Iraq, Kosovo and an assessment of any peacekeeping participation in Sudan. The international threat and risk picture is wider and more diffuse than before and is characterised by moving transitions between national and international, and between peace, crisis, armed conflict and war. The terrorist attack on the United States in September 2001 became a timeline for security policy. Our security reality is marked by international terrorism, the spread of weapons of mass destruction and asymmetric threats, threats that are not stopped by borders. The world has become a little bit smaller and denser woven together. It has its price in terms of increased vulnerability. It's the reality of the day that we have to deal with. We have to put it down as the formulations and thinking of war, for example. that there is either peace or war, behind us. We are in a process where the defence is in a comprehensive transition to meet today's demands, and there has become a stronger focus on the concept of social security. It is about meeting new challenges with a total defence or concept where civil protection and military defence cooperate on social security in order to provide security for the population. It's true here at home, but it's equally relevant in international missions. The distinction between national and international security is in the process of being erased. We can no longer deal only with our own geographical areas when we form our defence and security policy, and in fact we have already developed an international defence through close cooperation with other countries in the NATO alliance. Norway’s safety is not a purely national issue. Norwegian security is an integral part of European and international security. A credible defence shall avert war and contribute to keeping international conflicts at the lowest possible level. We have to remember that the defense has an embedded peace dimension in it. Our soldiers are people with the will and ability to make an effort for peace, freedom and the community. It requires people who are ethically conscious and who have been given the opportunity to work on the defence's values in relation to what they can experience in the assignment to which they are trained. The heaviest ethical dilemmas of the Defense and the individual soldier are precisely in protecting social values and human dignity while their lives and those of others can be lost. Today's debate is on where to send our soldiers, and there is a broad consensus. As politicians, we have the responsibility to provide our soldiers with good training before they leave for international missions. The defense has improved on the selection of soldiers who are being sent out, and they are training on stress training. Equally important is to take care of our boys and girls when they come home from international missions. They've experienced and seen a lot, and they have to be caught if there's any aftereffects. Rapid access to qualified health professionals and, in general, their own experience in foreign tasks is important. There has been a heated debate on the blending of humanitarian and military missions, especially in Iraq. The debate has had a major impact on the thinking of the Cold War. We can no longer talk about, as I said before, either war or peace. There are moving transitions between crisis, armed conflict and war, and that is why new thinking and new concepts need to be introduced. The challenge is how to carry out humanitarian work where humanitarian organisations cannot provide their own security and choose to withdraw. Then there are two possibilities: not to do anything to help the civilian population, or to use parts of our military defenses, which have training and equipment for practical assistance to the civilian population. The Minister of Defence, in his speech, had an important clarification of the work of the soldiers in Iraq. The concept of total defence and total preparedness, where military defence and civil society work together to the best of society, is a discussion we have here at home, and I encourage you to transfer the same thinking to the international missions and see that there is room for everyone in the overall concept, where the common goal is important help to the civilian population. The Christian People’s Party believes that peace is a value that must be protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1670	During the period 1947-1953, Norwegian soldiers went to Germany to participate in the German Brigade. Under the motto «To Germany for peace» drew approx. 50,000 Norwegian soldiers down, and the contribution to the brigade was the first international mission for Norwegian soldiers after World War II. In retrospect, many argue that the mission, which was otherwise under British command, was helping to lay the foundations for Norwegian membership in NATO. And it gradually became clear that our countries were going to give their support to military efforts by two organizations, the United Nations and NATO. The demands of Norwegian defence have been strongly changed in recent decades. The defense was organized during the cold war to deal with a situation where the threat was extensive. The need was a major invasion defence, with wide mobilisation in the event of war, and the primary Norway could do to defend itself and its allies was to maintain a strong national defence. Some of the parties seem to be saying the same thing today, but I'll leave that in this round. If Norway had maintained a similar defense as we had in 1986, it would have cost 70 billion dollars today. But in spite of the fact that during the cold days of the war, the defense went off relatively large resources, we could still afford to send soldiers out on international missions under the auspices of the UN. Around 105 000 Norwegians have been involved in such operations since 1947, and Norwegian soldiers were in many places, in Germany, in Korea, in Congo, in the Middle East, yes, almost where it was requested. Support to the UN has been a pillar of Norway’s foreign policy. Nevertheless, in recent years we have seen that the reciprocity of the collective aid obligation within NATO has become more prominent. Norway has shown its willingness to contribute through NATO in regionally influenced Article 5 operations, operations that have not directly affected Norway. Such international military operations have emerged far more strongly than purely UN operations, and some of which may be the experience of UN-led operations in the Balkans. Norway’s contribution to international peace operations has often demonstrated considerable stamina over time. The reason might be that the conflicts we have engaged in traditionally have been marked by little conflict. They have been so-called low-intensity conflicts, as it is called military jargon. The international missions that Norwegian soldiers are taking part in today are more likely to be high-intensity conflicts. The requirements of the actors in international military operations are increasing. The requirements provide for shorter response times, better training and better equipment. Technical progress also does not stand still, and this requires an ever-increasing ability to operate with our allies. Therefore, the defence's ability to contribute to international military operations needs to be constantly rehearsed for this purpose and the number of personnel recruited needs to be increased. Following-up to the tasks of the Defence Nationally and Internationally will, in the view of the Workers' Party, be mutually reinforcing. The forces of intervention for army, sea and air are therefore a significant contribution to national defence. The current security policy situation makes it possible to combine the objectives by establishing a set of foreign strengths that are also a central element of national defence. In this way, both the main pillars of defence are strengthened, and we are delivering the contribution our NATO allies expect, and that we can provide strengths for operations under the UN. This development of the Defense enables us to maintain the proud international efforts of Norwegian military personnel have contributed since 1947.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1687	The debate on the use of Norwegian military personnel internationally raises a number of interesting issues. Is it that, through participation in international operations, we are involved in creating a more stable international order? If we believe that Norwegian military participation will contribute to the promotion of international security, we must at the same time have a notion that it is possible to create an international society. Both the EU and NATO have seen it as a primary task in recent years to contribute to international peace and security outside their own territory. EU and NATO enlargement processes have undoubtedly contributed to a more stable Europe. NATO has, for its part, been aimed at creating a Euro-Atlantic security community characterised by stable expectations of peaceful conflict resolution between countries. Both the Partnership for Peace and the Cooperation Agreements with Russia have the ambition to create such an order, characterised by a greater degree of collective security. EU enlargements have the same objective: to overcome Yalta and the division of Europe through the establishment of a political community to which the world has not yet seen fit. The characteristics of the EU as an actor are precisely the combination of national sovereignty and a supranational community. The EU is thus an intermediary between a normal international organisation and a federal state formation, and is primarily a civil political community and a community of values. The EU Treaty basis is explicitly bound up in the UN Charter. The strengthening of EU foreign and security policy needs to be seen in the light of the EU ‘good neighbourhood’ programme. This is a policy of spreading stability towards those countries and regions that become EU neighbours when the Union is enlarged in May next year. Javier Solana’s strategy paper, presented in June and finally adopted by the Brussels European Council last weekend, shows that the EU and NATO, including the United States, have developed a common security understanding. International terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, so-called failed states and international crime are the main security challenges we are facing today. While there is a real disagreement about the use of the instrument, the prerequisites for a fruitful transatlantic partnership in the coming years should nevertheless be present. This raises two dilemmas for the formulation of Norwegian foreign, security and defence policies in the coming years. The first dilemma is that the stronger the EU develops its common foreign and security policy, the more NATO will be subject to so-called bilateralisation. This means that NATO is primarily dominated by two heavy players: the United States and the EU. Such bilateralisation may result in an enhanced marginalisation of those countries that are only NATO members. This applies in the first row to Turkey, Iceland and Norway. Bulgaria and Romania will also become NATO members next year, but as they are known, these two will become EU members in 2007. Bilateralisation will thus contribute to a deterioration of Norwegian influence over the formulation of European security policy in the coming years. Of course, strengthening our bilateral relationship with the United States and other related countries can alleviate this trend somewhat, but at a close range the disadvantages that we are increasingly facing. The second dilemma is that developments both in NATO and in the EU are pointing towards increasing internationalisation and professionalisation of Norwegian defence. The military professional investigation of the Chief of Defense, presented on 8 December, provides the military professional basis for such internationalisation. This is important, for example: because international participation increases the Norwegian ability to exercise influence over the design of NATO policies. Nevertheless, the dilemma is that increasing internationalisation of defence will not lead to a corresponding influence on the development of EU foreign and security policy. While increasing internationalisation of Norwegian defence alone will lead to increased influence in NATO, this will be more than offset by the marginalisation we are exposed to if NATO becomes more and more an arena for the United States and the EU. This is a challenge for Norwegian foreign and security policy. Since becoming a member of NATO in 1949, we have always played on the primary arena when European and Euro-Atlantic security policies were developed. The problem for us is that Norway will not be present to the same extent on the primary arena for the design of both European and Euroatlantic cooperation. This is a new development that we did not face in 1994, when the Norwegian people last took a position on EU membership. And this also shows that the EU process is running faster than the Norwegian political reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1702	First, I have to be allowed to comment on an article that the SV defence spokesperson had. He started by saying that SV was for a defense to defend Norway, and pointed to our marine areas, to this territory. And then it amazes me that every time we invest in the Maritime Defense in Norway, SV goes against. So it was a little bit amazing to hear the introduction to that article. There are many major unsolved tasks in the world. And sometimes it also seems that these problems are not at all possible to solve, but that's not always true. Many international problems can be solved. In recent years, for example, the situation in the Balkans has shown a slow but clear improvement. The Norwegian contribution to KFOR will therefore be reduced, as will the contributions from other NATO countries. On the basis of the statement to the Minister of Defence, it was made clear that Norwegian efforts will still be maintained in the area. The current infantry force in Kosovo will continue until the summer of 2004, and in the second half of 2004 it will, among other things, be offered a smaller number of helicopters. Such a development on our own continent is joyous, but we also need to be fully aware that other continents also need to find stable and good solutions. Since its establishment, the UN has played an important role in Norwegian foreign policy. In various ways, we have supported the UN, and in the policy area we are discussing today, we have often participated in the UN's international peacekeeping forces. And let us not forget that the United Nations peacekeeping forces just received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1988. Although the number of Northmen serving in the blue berry has decreased, Norway is also currently participating with UN staff officers and military observers. Norway’s military contributions abroad are in line with the legitimacy of operations under UN approval. The special relationship between Norway and the UN came to the surface when the Stortinget discussed Norway’s membership of the UN Security Council. During this debate, it was stressed that peacemaking in Africa should be one of three priority areas. The Labour Party will continue to stress that support for UN missions in Africa is in line with Norwegian traditions, while at the same time in line with the United Nations call for rich countries to bear a greater share of the burden of UN peacekeeping operations. A key objective of Norwegian participation in the Security Council was to put Africa’s challenges in focus. As I see it, Africa's challenges are coming out clearly in Africa's largest country, Sudan. That is why I believe that there will be more to be wondered if Norway, which has played an active role in the forthcoming peace agreement, is not willing to stand up to protect this peace. Inconceivable, it is not likely that such a position could harm Norwegian reputation. Norway is currently providing a number of observers of the United Nations military mission in Ethiopia-Eritrea. I can then add that Sudan is not unaffected by this conflict on the Horn of Africa either, as the refugee problems from this conflict are also part of the overall picture in Sudan. And we know from the media that the conflict in Sudan between Muslims in the North and Christian rebel groups in the South is constantly causing suffering to its inhabitants. And as this creates unrest in neighbouring countries as a result of the problems of refugees causing the conflict, it is very important to stabilise the situation so that the country can look forward to positive political and economic developments. I would therefore like to add that I am pleased with the clarifications that both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence made in their statements, as it provides a basis for broad political support for a possible future Norwegian military quota in Sudan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1725	Norway has a long-standing tradition of helping Norwegian military forces abroad in the service of peace. During the 1970s and 1980s, many Norwegian soldiers were involved in peacekeeping and peacekeeping forces with UN mandates and under UN leadership. Today the world looks different than during the cold war. And as many people have been in the debate, conflicts have a different character. The condition for Norway to participate with foreign strengths must be that the mission has a clear international legal base, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement. Usually this will be a mandate from the UN Security Council or from the government of another country. Norway’s main role in world policy should be to promote peace and reconciliation. Areas that have been held down by conflicts and unrest need help to get on the ground. Depending on the situation in the country, different combinations of instruments may be needed. Military forces, as well as humanitarian relief and assistance for civil society development, may be required, good governance and anti-corruption. Iraq, despite the fact that it is occupied by the United States and the United Kingdom, needs various kinds of assistance. Both the UN Security Council and the Interim Governing Council have requested assistance of various kinds. Norway has chosen to participate and make a certain contribution, and this is the case per year. Today, it is difficult to see that this assistance could have been provided by non-military forces capable of defending themselves if necessary. At the same time, I would like to stress that the situation in Iraq must not take all Norway's attention and resources. The good opportunities for a peace agreement in Sudan have been mentioned. If an agreement was put in place, a United Nations military-led force would probably be needed to monitor and maintain peace. Such a force has Norway's special prerequisites for joining, both because Norway and our Minister for Development have been central to the work of a peace agreement, and because Norway has a long history of involvement in the area. It will hopefully also have an impact on the fights in northern Uganda. Another place where it could be natural for Norway to contribute is Sri Lanka. Here Norway has had the primary responsibility to negotiate between the parties to the civil war. Right now it seems to be a bit ahead, but Sri Lanka is, in my opinion, absolutely topical. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that if an agreement is reached, we must be prepared that there may also be a need for a strength to monitor the agreement. It would also be very natural for Norway to be part of, if an agreement comes into effect. The country we're going to spend most military resources abroad next year is probably Afghanistan. This country faces enormous challenges after nearly 30 years of civil war and unrest and five years of terrorist rule by the Taliban regime. The country needs help in a number of areas, and Norway is involved and provides its services. This is why Afghanistan has also been made a new co-operation country for Norway. On the civil side, we are focusing on assistance for the priority areas of the Afghan authorities, including: to have a general government on its feet and improve the security situation, for example: by training police, and we are working to demobilize militias, for the reintegration of refugees and, above all, for education, especially for girls. At the same time, we know that civil aid work depends on a reasonable safety situation. In some areas, the situation is so uncertain that international organisations cannot operate. Military personnel have an important role to play in stabilising the situation. The goal must be gradually to get a more normal situation across the country. NATO has assumed operational responsibility for the ISAF force, but the mandate has been given by the United Nations and the Government of Kabul. Today, ISAF operates only in and around Kabul, but, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs explained, the plan is to extend this gradually. This is a mission Norway needs to be involved in. I have pointed out in my speech that Norway's efforts with military forces are desirable in a number of countries. Norway needs to give priority to its strengths, depending on where our contributions are particularly needed, and on where we are particularly qualified to do a job. Since we supported the military intervention against the Taliban regime, I see it as Norway has a special responsibility to also participate in and win peace in Afghanistan. In addition, we must be prepared to monitor the completion of peace processes where we have used our special role in mediation between the parties. In my opinion, this could apply to both Sudan and Sri Lanka.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1744	The change in the defense has already given results. Today, we have larger forces that can be deployed in national and international operations at short notice than ever before. Protective and skilled have been introduced to new and better material, and the defense has acquired experience that gives us niche capacities that we are alone about in the alliance. Furthermore, we are in the process of getting one of the most modern marine defenses of the NATO Alliance. The world’s fastest marine vessel, the missile torpedo boat KNM ‘Skjold’, shall be produced in a Norwegian shipyard in the South. The Coast Guard Command is about to set up the first combat unit of four. The first of five frigates ordered has begun to form a yard in Spain. The F-16 aeroplanes are upgraded and maintained at a high international level. The introduction of Tactical Data Link 16 will provide the various platforms with better operational cooperation and effectiveness in fighting through the achievement of command, communication and information superiority. Much more could have been said here. The transition gives us the capacity to meet today's and the future's security challenges. The defence currently has relevant and tangible elements with high quality and high responsiveness, in order to safeguard our territorial sovereignty and to contribute to multinational operations. The last long-term proposition for the Defense is an expression that the Right realized the need for a new structure for the Defence, and that we are willing to do the necessary and sometimes painful grip. Our government partners and the Workers' Party are also involved in this. On the other hand, the Progress Party will finance old structure, a structure of the Cold War era and a defense that would not be relevant to either outdoor or home operations. For Norway, NATO will remain the main guarantor of our security in the foreseeable future, also in a worldview where the threat of invasion from the east has gone away, and where asymmetric warfare poses a significant threat. It is therefore essential that we contribute to the modernisation of NATO. This is primarily done by Norway itself producing relevant capacities, then by participating in NATO operations when Article 5 enters into force, such as for Operation Enduring Freedom, and when the UN Security Council sanctions missions and delegates responsibilities, such as for the ISAF force in Afghanistan. By contributing to stability in other parts of the world, we make an important contribution to the population of the areas in question, while building a stronger alliance and a stronger national defence. By being heavily present both humanitarianly and militarily in Afghanistan, we are making a significant contribution to the stabilisation and construction of the country. The ISAF force with its Norwegian contribution is very important for the democratisation and drafting of a constitution, which is a historic event for Afghanistan. From the Norwegian side, it is important to contribute to this process. Both the United Nations and the Afghan authorities have stated that the Norwegian Afghanistan contribution is highly valued.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1763	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1767	This has been a debate which, according to the agenda, has largely concerned our foreign operations. But then in his last post, the representative Width had to repeat his old invasion defense. It must not be allowed to stand indisputably. There is therefore no contradiction between the defence of Norwegian territory and foreign operations. It's the exact same strengths that we train and have. The representative, Gunnar Halvorsen, underlined this in his article. He said that if we were still the same as before, the defense would cost 70 billion kroner. I can't do the math, but it's likely. But the point is that even with such an amount, we would have a worse defense than the threat we are facing today. Then we would have a defense that had maintained its entire vast peace organization with its associated support functions, and – in particular, given that I doubt whether NATO would continue to make infrastructure contributions in such a situation – the entire sum of money would have gone to maintain camps, crews, workshops and infrastructure around the country. So it would not be a defence that would fit the threat we are facing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1774	In the light of the course of the debate, there are two things I feel the need to underline at last. One is that there is broad agreement in the United Kingdom that, if there is a peace agreement in Sudan – the prospects for it are more uncertain today than they were a few weeks ago – and if an enquiry is made, Norway will meet it as far as possible. But it also means, as I interpret the debate, that the Storting is prepared for the eventuality that the Government, if it is not possible to meet such an enquiry because the Storting has not allowed enough money to do so, returns to the Storing with proposals to make available the necessary funds. So finally, what is also remarkable in this debate is that the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have at no time been willing to give an almost clear answer to how they assess the Security Council Resolutions 1483 and 1511. In fact, a response from the SV is indirectly given when it is said that the adequate response from the Norwegian side to the unanimous and insistent call by the Security Council to make resources available, including military resources, will be to withdraw the resources already made available in Iraq. Åslaug Haga's answer was remarkable, almost in all senses of the word. She indicated that she is well aware that the UN Security Council has made an intrusive recommendation to all Member States, but she added that we need to assess whether this is politically wise. You can interpret that in one of two ways. Either the Central Party believes that if Norway had been a member of the Security Council, we should vote against this unanimous resolution because it is unwise and due to a false assessment of the situation in Iraq, or it must mean that at any time we reserve the right to review any unanimous recommendation of the UN Security Council, on the assumption that in Norway we are wiser than the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1783	To what Inge Wohnning now said about any additional allocation to Sudan, I take it almost as a matter of course that the Storting must look at it, because it is completely in line with what we have done in Kosovo and Afghanistan. Any peace operation in Sudan is as important as what we have faced in the past, and I believe that the conflict cannot be treated in a discriminatory way. I want to say a few words about what I've heard from SV here, because there's a lot of remarkableness coming up, and you get to light up what you get up in if you run that line that there's only NATO and UN-led operations we're going to be in. SV has demanded that we be involved in NATO and UN-led operations. SV is to report Norway out of NATO, but now NATO has suddenly become very important to us. Furthermore, this debate has lamented that we were not in Congo, which was an EU-led operation, i.e. an organisation of which SV will not be a member. Then the need for an operation in Sudan has been strongly underlined, but it is not certain that there will be a UN-led operation there. Today we have a military operation in Sudan that is not UN-led. It is a military presence in Sudan that is not UN-led. It may well be that there will be an extension and an extension of that operation in Sudan. Should we say no to that? I'm saying this because we can't define very specific principles, we have to look at what kind of conflicts we're going to help in. The only principle we have to have is that it is a UN mandate for the operations in which we participate. And so the UN has to use different instruments to do its problems. The UN cannot lead the operation, for example: in Afghanistan. The UN has given a mandate to NATO in Afghanistan. Without NATO, the UN could not have done anything in Afghanistan. Moreover, I would like to say that when some people use an entire foreign debate to debate these issues – which are important enough in themselves – it also becomes a little descriptive. In fact, the most important thing is that we should do something for the people we are going to help in Iraq, in Afghanistan and in Sudan. That is what we should have focused most on in this debate. Obviously, some principles have to be on the ground, but it can't be that it's either – or, because then we're stuck, there's a lot we can't be on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1796	First, a little to this discussion of the principles underlying Norway’s international participation. What SV has used in part of this debate is to try to find out what the Government believes by its own wording in the foreign minister’s statement, where it has been stated that it should primarily participate in UN-led and NATO-led operations. Then it turns out that the Government does not really mean it – that is, it sounds more like the Prime Minister believes that this should be a fundamental principle, but that the Foreign Minister agrees more with the interpretation used by the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. SV does not rule out getting into situations where you can handle UN mandates, where missions on behalf of the United Nations are neither carried out by NATO nor directly by the United Nations, and which we think it is right to support. But we need to know what the Foreign Minister thinks is a principle or a starting point, especially when the two largest operations we have participated in, military, human and economic, have neither been NATO-led nor the UN-led. Now the quote is that in Afghanistan we are participating in the ISAF forces under NATO's command. It supports SV. We have supported our participation in the work of a new constitution and the security of the national Parliament is ensured, but we have had some problems about which premises are going to be grounded in the future. I assume that all the parties must do so in relation to Norway's further participation. The situation in Afghanistan is very demanding. I agree with the Foreign Minister that it had deserved greater attention in the debate, because there are very small forces, there is a very large country, there are an incredible number of security challenges, and there are many signs that the Taliban is building up again, and that former warlords are being revitalised. With regard to the operation in Iraq, it is simply neither a UN-led nor a NATO-led operation. We still believe that our contribution to Iraq is primarily a desire to give political support to the occupying powers of the United States and the United Kingdom. We were the only country that went against the war that was fast on the verge of saying that we were going to participate. We participate with 150 soldiers of a total of 150,000. It is obvious that the occupiers are responsible for the security of the post-war war. But what is equally obvious is that they lack legitimacy, and that there must be a political solution in place to enable the Iraqis to take over governance themselves, because until then there are political problems with legitimacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1805	I fully accept that it is asked what is contained in the wording of the statement, but I think that it should not be given the answer once. I have had to give the answer several times during this debate. The Prime Minister has also given an answer, and so we are well connected to this. The starting point is in the statement. I made it clear that it does not involve any line break, which means that we have to practice it as we have done so far. Marit Nybakk was very clear about how she perceived this. The Prime Minister said to it: the answer is yes. And that's exactly the same attitude as the one I'm basing on. If SV has not yet got this, we'll just register it, but then you can wonder what we've actually spent the day on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1810	The last foreign minister was in on, to start thinking about what one has spent the day for, I don't dare to start with -- it can end up with a lot. But I want to grab a couple of points. The opposition, we from Labor Parity, has made a lot of demands, terms and obligations for international engagement, and we also want to challenge the Government on some of the questions we've asked. But we also mean that as an opposition party, we have an obligation to present our own policies, not just to challenge the Government. So that's what we've been doing. So a couple of the individual issues that have been addressed in the debate. The question of the basis of international law for participation in Iraq is well settled. Almost everyone has said that this is not the problem, even if it is against participation. Åslaug Haga was very precise on that from his point of view. We share that view. I assume that SV also shares the view that it is not international law that is the problem with Iraq, just that it is also confirmed from the hall. Because it's pretty important if you say that all the parties here say that the international court is OK. Then we can disagree on other grounds, whether we're going to attend or not. In relation to the last article by Kristin Halvorsen, I will also repeat what Thorbjørn Jagland had to say, SV’s view of Norwegian participation in NATO leadership and EU leadership operations, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs started with earlier today. If we are also confirmed that there is an uncomplicated case, in principle for SV, of participating in EU Leadership and NATO Leadership operations with an adequate mandate from the UN, then there is also a clarification that may have an impact on possible participation in future operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1823	Kristin Halvorsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1826	First of all, the mandate of the forces of international law in Iraq. We have not problemated what is involved in international law on the basis of the forces that are there. I have been involved in a previous article. But that does not mean that we think it is wise for Norway to participate, even though there is a clear decision in the Security Council, nor does it necessarily mean that it is the right priority. So there's two things going on, both principles and priorities. Then it's our view of both NATO-led and EU-led actions, that as long as Norway is a member of NATO, we don't have a fundamental counter-representation of participating in NATO-led operations. But we reserve the right to consider them also as a capacity issue and as a political issue. We are opposed to notifying forces to an EU army, but that does not mean that there cannot be a mission where, together with EU countries, we are asked by the UN, possibly during EU-led operations, to perform peace-building or peace-keeping missions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1833	Marit Nybakk has also had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1836	I feel that it is quite essential to clarify what SV actually means in terms of international legal anchorage. The representative, Bjørn Jacobsen, said in a previous post, or in a previous reply, that when it came to our participation in the stabilisation forces in Iraq, it was in ‘a grey area of international law’. It might be interesting to hear what SV actually believes about the fact that the stabilisation force in Iraq is in an international grey zone, while at least two specific resolutions of the UN Security Council are in fact available, at the latest no. 1511.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1841	What I did in my reply to the Minister for Foreign Affairs was to ask a question as to whether his assessment was equal to the assessment of the international law experts, among others. Norway has said that we are in a clear grey zone here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1847	Thorbjørn Jagland is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1850	According to what has been said, on behalf of the Workers' Party – just for the sake of the Protocol – I have to be allowed to say that our opinion is that decisions of the UN Security Council, in particular those under Chapter VII of the Charter, we are obliged not to follow up with military forces but are obliged not to go against them and not undermine the United Nations' ability to carry out the mandate given by the Security Council. It seems like SV is of a different opinion, that you can juggle with this just like you want. The decisions in the Security Council that you like are for, those that you don't like, they can be questioned all the way. That's not our opinion. As I said, we are not obliged to follow up with military forces, but we are obliged not to block the decisions of the United Nations Security Council, and not to oppose these decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1857	President! Can I get the floor for a manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1862	No! No! No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1880	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1448]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1896	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1448]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1912	Nor has anyone here asked for the word. [[Footing, see page 1448]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1925	We then go to voting on case No. 2–5 on today’s map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1934	During the debate, Kristin Halvorsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal is distributed in the Chamber and reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to prepare for the liquidation of the Norwegian military contribution to Iraq, thus ending after the 1st half of 2004.’» Åslaug Haga – to the explanation of vote, hopes the President. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1942	For explanations of vote, President! The centre party will vote in favour of the SV proposal. However, the proposal can be interpreted as providing indirect support for Norwegian participation in Iraq in the first half of 2004. The Central Party believes it is politically unwise to participate militarily in Iraq. Our vote should therefore not be interpreted as supporting Norwegian participation in Iraq in the spring of 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1949	We understand that. It is voted on by the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1963	The President proposes that the statements by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence at the Stockholm meeting on 15 December 2003 on the overall Norwegian effort in Afghanistan and Iraq in 2004 and Norway’s contribution to operations abroad in 2004 are annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e1983	Everybody's too tuna. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-17.ana.ud1993e2449	There is no record.
