ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e30	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e35	I propose Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and Anne Berit Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e40	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and Anne Berit Andersen are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and Anne Berit Andersen are considered unanimously elected presidents of today’s meeting in Stortinget. The representative, Karin S. Woldseth, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e45	On behalf of Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, I would like to propose the introduction of a system of a meeting ban one day per. the week at all public offices, in order to improve public access to public case handlers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e50	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e73	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik State Council Per-Cristian Foss The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e89	I have a question for the Prime Minister. This weekend, the Labour Party and the Government parties made a budgetary settlement. We in the Labour Party have therefore decided to adopt a more positive, amicable and cooperative tone towards the Government, just as the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen have done in the last two years after entering into budgetary conciliation. [[muttering in the hall]] The budgetary agreement was only possible because the government parties left important parts of their political base, gave up legislative proposals that would create greater uncertainty for Norwegian employees, and chose more to school, more to health and more to care for the elderly rather than tax incentives for those who have the most in the past. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he understands that giving as much tax relief as this government has been up to next year's budget is incompatible with the promises made about upgrading school, health and retirement. The question is, Has he learned?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e100	I hope we all learn as long as we live, including the representative Stoltenberg. The question back could be whether he has learned that it makes sense not to be excluded from the budgetary procedure, but to have influence, as the Workers' Party has been given this time. We also think it was reasonable, and I think that the Workers' Party deserves a reward for having stretched out. Of course, so have the government parties. We have had a tidy budgetary procedure and a more dignified budgetary procedure. We have found peace and stability both in the budgetary process and in the Norwegian economy in general. I think that's going to serve most people, not least the unemployed. As far as tax relief is concerned, the Cooperative Government has fulfilled a large part of what we have put forward in the Sem Declaration. This time there were no new big steps. It was a very small, modest step. But we avoided tax incentives, as the Workers' Party provided in its alternative budget. I am pleased that the Workers' Party did not insist on introducing tax incentives. The Workers' Party fell out, and it's positive. It would have been unfortunate for companies to work to create and secure jobs. It will be difficult to implement the rest of all the numerical Sem objectives also on the tax and tax side, because we have two years behind us with a significant recession and with stock exchange falls that have reduced the income of the state. It has reduced the space for action somewhat, but of course we have not left the Sem declaration either in this or in other areas. It's stuck. If one also reads the government's political accounts from the summer, one will see that we have done a lot of the Sem statement, both where it is numerically fixed, and in important policy areas that are not numerically fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e109	The government is also constantly trying to give the impression that it is possible to combine, but the government's original budget proposal was clear evidence that it is not possible to combine comprehensive tax relief with a necessary effort to develop welfare schemes such as school, health and care for the elderly. They had e.g. a proposal of NOK 2 500 in self-proprietary shares. Fortunately, we got that down to NOK 1500, a reduction of NOK 1000 in the excesses within the healthcare system and for medicines. You had $0 for more effort in school, to expand your school day and introduce more school hours to the smallest children, even though all parties have promised. In many other areas, too, efforts were far too poor in relation to municipalities. The municipalities have now more than doubled their free income, and this allows them to avoid the closure of schools and to avoid the worst cuts within, among other things. care for the elderly. The original draft budget thus shows that the combination cannot be implemented. It was a long series of unsocial cuts, and it's good that these have been reversed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e114	This isn't right. The first two budgets we submitted from the Cooperative Government showed that we could combine significant tax reliefs with welfare bets. I think the Workers' Party should be a little careful here to argue against any tax change. If the Co-operation Government had not done what it did, the situation for Norwegian companies could have been much more difficult and the unemployment rate would have been higher, because the substantial amount of these tax reliefs has gone to business. I would warn against starting to increase the tax burden on them again. Otherwise, I have to correct the representative Stoltenberg a little, so that it becomes quite precise: the equity stake is not NOK 1500, but NOK 1550. In the case of school hours, the Co-operation Government has actually increased the number of school hours in previous budget proposals. We were going to take the next steps after the quality committee was set up, but we're anticipating something of it, it's okay, because it's in line with the government's policy to bet more on school. In the case of free income to municipalities, no government has proposed for many years such an increase as the Cooperative Government proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e121	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e124	Under the agreement we signed with the Government last year, we had only explicit commitments to vote for the budget during the budgetary procedure. We were not bound beyond the year 2003. The Prime Minister has misguided the Norwegian people that we had obligations, and he has claimed that we have broken agreements, which we have not done. We're on contracts. However, I would like to ask: what is the agreement with the Workers' Party after the Prime Minister's interpretation? The Labour Party has the freedom to vote next year for additional appropriations that are not now included in the budgetary procedure, for example: NOK 10 billion in equity increase for State Power? Or is the Prime Minister’s view of the agreement concluded with the Labour Party in Stortinget that the Workers’ Party is obliged not to vote in favour of changes to the budget in 2004, unless it has been approved in advance by the Government Parties, so that throughout the budgetary procedure the Workers’ Party is pigs bound to the government parties in each committee now in the harvest?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e131	It is not apparent from the agreement that the Workers' Party is bound by consultations or to refrain from amendments. But it is the big difference between the Progress Party and the Workers' Party that the Workers' Party has said that they will stick to the same budgetary framework and the same use of the Petroleum Fund as the Government Parties. That restriction does not seem to be seen in the Progress Party. They probably don't see any constraint at all. They will use more and more oil money, with the effect that one drives prices and interest rates up and undermines all the increases in the budget another proposes for good. So if we don't have any contractual obligation on the part of the Workers' Party at this point, then we know the Workers' Party so that they show a financial responsibility, which unfortunately the Advance Party has not shown in the same way. I am aware that the Progress Party was also not obliged by agreement to refrain from any changes during 2003 under our budget agreement last autumn. But I have to say that someone might be able to show some political commitment and restraint in detonating budgetary frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e137	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e140	I would like a follow-up question to Minister of Finance Per-Christian Foss. In the first answer to Stoltenberg, the Prime Minister says that it is demanding to be able to follow up the remaining tax commitments of NOK 12 billion. It is difficult to understand in any other way than that the Government has in practice seen that this is now impossible. If you're going to implement $12 billion in tax relief next year, it will lead to such a dramatic cut in general well-being that even the Right, I think, will pay for it. Even right-wing voters will think it might be a bit brutal to take $12 billion in one year. My question to Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss is: Is this a proper understanding, and is the Right satisfied with the way the Prime Minister is now making the promises that have been made? What you're really doing is you're boring the water and maybe going back two steps. I am pleased with that. I think that's wise. $12 billion in tax relief will be completely meaningless. But it is not certain that Minister of Finance Per-Kristian Foss is of the same opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e149	I can assure the asker that I am of the same opinion as the Prime Minister: It has become more demanding to discharge all election promises, both on the income side and on the expenditure side. We've been through two significant low-economic years, and we've been through a year with the biggest stock exchange fall since 1929. It is clear that it has also affected the values of the state, among others. the size of the oil fund. This, in turn, affects the scope of action of the State budget. Now we see a growth to the next year that, with the adopted budget, will give us a considerable freedom of action. In fact, growth in the economy also provides greater scope for action within the budgets. Therefore, I do not consider any part of the Sem statement to be cancelled, but that it becomes more demanding to fulfill the promises there, the four-year period as a whole, there is no doubt about it. Moreover, I can only assure you that we have not yet started the 2005 budget, but I look forward to new debates with Mr. Deep pedal about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e156	Bjarne Håkon Hanssen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e159	I have a follow-up question for the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister here also says repeatedly what has been said many times from the Government, that we can get both tax relief and well-being. But in the government's draft budget, we see in many ways that this is not true. Let me use an example: to finance the tax bill contained in the budget proposal, about 500 million. kr, the government had to, among other things. put the self-interest in medical services up from NOK 1 350 to NOK 2 500. Then you get the government income that you can use for tax credits. In the budget negotiations, we managed to push the government to go down with almost NOK 1000 on the equity stake. But to fund it, to get a more social self-interest, we had to drop the taxes. Does not the Prime Minister think that this shows that there is a need to choose between tax and welfare?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e166	No, I actually think that's one too general conclusion, if I were to answer yes to that. For the Workers' Party, even in previous budgets, there have been significant tax reliefs. The Labour Party itself promised to implement some tax concessions before the 2001 elections. So I think giving such a general answer is not right. In the first two budget proposals presented by the Co-operation Government, we made significant tax cuts, but we strengthened our efforts in a number of areas of well-being. Not least, we strengthened the health sector strongly, and we did so at the same time as we implemented tax relief. We increased the number of hours in school at the same time as we carried out tax reliefs. Now it's become more demanding because of economic downturns. In the case of prostheses, the Workers' Party has also helped to increase the prostheses by 13 p.m., but the ceiling has been lowered to 1550 kroner. It was the Co-operation Government that introduced self-participation 2, which protected the real large consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e175	Åslauga Haga – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e178	The central party does not applaud the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Labour Party, but there is no doubt that the budget has been drawn in the right direction both in terms of efforts towards municipalities, in relation to hospitals and in terms of the unemployed. So that's at least a clear improvement that we see. But we are not happy to say that we are, because the need is even greater in these areas. But what we have seen is a joyful parliamentary leader in the Christian People's Party, Jon Lilletun. It's almost as if you'll be happy to see such a joy. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister agree with Jon Lilletun that this budget has become so much better? I don't have to go that far, but I want to ask if the Prime Minister thinks it's been a better budget than what was provided by the Cooperation Government. I would also like to ask: in what areas does the Prime Minister see that it is more to pick up for the Christian People's Party in cooperation with the Labour Party than with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e187	When it comes to being happy, I think the Center Party has something to learn from Jon Lilletun. [[muttering in the hall]] Even I would say that I think it was a very good budget proposal from the Government, and that was a good deal we made with the Workers' Party. And when I put it this way, it's because on the expenditure side, where we strengthen our efforts, it's completely in line with the priorities of the cooperation party. We also want to strengthen workplaces, health, municipalities and schools. But then we've had to cover this in ways of cuts and increases in income, and we think the cooperative government's proposal was better on the containment side. But all in all, it is important that we now have peace and stability. Someone has taken responsibility, and there is hope of keeping interest rates and interest rates down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e194	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e197	I have a question for the Prime Minister. After the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties became known, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Finance and a number of other prominent politicians in the government parties in the public debate have wrongly tried to create the impression that the government parties had as much to offer the Advance Party in negotiations as they had to offer the Workers' Party, and that it was actually a hip-hop where this solution really came from. As the negotiating leader of the Progress Party, I need to ask the Prime Minister some questions about this, because the kind of wrong impression is not right to create. Last year's budget agreement resulted in an amount in excess of NOK 6 billion and in excess of nearly NOK 4.5 billion in the budget agreement between the Progress Party and the Government Parties. This year, it's $5 billion. When we met for negotiations, the first thing we were told was that the action space for the Government was considerably tighter this year than last year. The next thing we were told was an offer of NOK 1 billion. When we met this, we estimated that we thought we might get a new offer of about NOK 2 billion. That was never met. How can the government create the impression of an offer of NOK 5 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e207	I stand by what we have said about this. The truth is that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party got about the same opening in the negotiations regarding the financial framework. It can be proven. The truth is that our dealers said to both the Advance Party and the Workers' Party that there is room for further negotiations, but that there is a limited room. And it was necessary to say on the basis of the requirements that existed, the alternative budgets that existed. The truth is that the final result for the negotiations with the Workers' Party is about the same level as the final result was with the Progress Party last year. That also showed Siv Jensen in what she said now. So this clearly shows that in terms of economics, we were at a level of non-discrimination. The difference was that the Progress Party broke after the opening offer and was therefore not interested in negotiating further. The working party selected to continue. It was supposed to be lacking that the government parties were not prepared to do so and gave the Workers' Party credit for this. It was the Progress Party that broke the negotiations. They were obviously not interested. We could also understand that when we read John I. Alvheim's interview with Our Country on 5 May, where he openly speculated that it was perhaps best to get rid of this government as quickly as possible, so that the Workers' Party would come back and get a long enough time in the government offices to make a poor choice in 2005. If that was the strategy, I can understand the break of the Progress Party. But fortunately, they have miscalculated, obviously, because the Workers' Party showed a different responsibility. As far as I know, there is a protocol from the negotiations with the Progress Party, and if one is so very concerned about what has happened during the negotiations, one can find out more about it there, including we who did not sit in the negotiating room.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e218	Yes, I did. And what was made clear from the Progress Party before the break was a fact was that if not the government parties had more to give the Advance Party than an amount of SEK 1.5 to 2 billion, then we had no reason to continue. That claim from me was never refuted or met by the government parties. That is why the negotiations broke down. But I also want to ask the Prime Minister for a different relationship. Last night I met Jan Tore Sanner in a TV debate at the NRK. There it was made a sense that it was still SEK 5 billion to offer the Advance Party, and almost so that the Advance Party could have spent the 5 billion just as we would, for example. to reduce alcohol taxes to the Swedish level. Can the Prime Minister confirm that there is a willingness in the government parties to reduce the alcohol tax in Norway down to Swedish level now immediately? Or is it that there is only something the government parties say on TV, but does not mean in negotiations? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e225	I did not see the debate the representative Jensen refers to now, so I cannot go any further into it. We have a problem with border trade due to different levels of charges, but I do not suggest that we should reduce it down to Swedish level immediately, as was said. I don't think anyone else meant that either. The truth is that the Progress Party knows – I understand that the Advance Party has come a little in doubt about it afterwards – that this was the choice of the Advance Party. We were willing to negotiate, and the amount of SEK 1.5 to 2 billion, as far as I know, was not our dealers who brought in as a kind of limit. It was the representative Siv Jensen who used it in the negotiations. With regard to the question of getting into goals, it is also about the willingness of the counterparty to refer to a responsible deposit, not just to spend more oil money, which we do not believe is responsible. Together with the Workers' Party, we managed to find a responsible containment. That was of course the reason why we could accept such a framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e236	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e239	The Prime Minister said that there is a protocol, and it does. That protocol confirms Siv Jensen's presentation of the negotiations in which she participated and in which the Prime Minister, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not participate. It is stated in the Minutes: ‘Siv Jensen expressed an assumption that such an offer would be in the order of 1.5 to 2 billion. kr, and assessed it there that there was no reason to spend more time on negotiations. This indication of the level of any new offer was not met by Jan Tore Sanner.The undersigned agree that the protocol provides a correct picture of the negotiation.» The amount that we were asked for was a maximum of NOK 2 billion. It would be irresponsible to continue the negotiations when it was the roof that the government had for our negotiations, and it was fair of us then to break. Later, when you negotiated with the Workers' Party, you went to NOK 5 billion. It is quite clear that had it been suggested that we could also be made available such an amount, the negotiations might have gone further. Will the Prime Minister regret that he has provided the Norwegian people with incorrect information, as confirmed by this signed protocol? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e253	The answer is no. No incorrect information has been provided at all. The representative Hagen now read out, gave no evidence of that either. Hagen did not sit in the negotiating room either. I didn't do it, but the protocol is familiar with me, and it gives us full coverage for what we have said. I must remind the representative Hagen, who has been involved in other negotiations before, that there are usually more than two meetings and two offers in the negotiations. The representative, Hagen, must not believe that in the next meeting with the Workers' Party we made an offer of NOK 5 billion. There are more witnesses to this. Had the Advance Party been willing to continue, we would of course have been able to make further offers later if it had also been shown a willingness for a responsible invasion. But the Progress Party has rarely shown it. They shall increase expenditure and reduce revenue. It's not good in hops. I insist that we have progressed step by step with the Workers' Party, and we arrived at a responsible discovery that enabled us to meet the demand of NOK 5 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e262	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e265	I must first be allowed to correct the Prime Minister. In our alternative state budget, we have corrected for both expenditure and revenue, and we have full coverage. So that's also a wrong information, what the Prime Minister here says to the Norwegian people. My question is more in the direction of the Prime Minister's echo in relation to John I. Alvheim's opinion on the strategy of the Progress Party on 5 May. It might have been good for the Prime Minister to be aware of our strategy when he has met Carl I. Hagen in debates, both in the ether media and here on the Stortinget. We have presented our strategy to the Government, and it has simply been that when we deal with the 2004 state budget, it is up to the Government to choose sides, because we need stability. They know that has been our strategy. When the Prime Minister, with the Christian People's Party at the head, has chosen to go to the socialist side and cooperate with the Workers' Party – which is to cut the cash support, remove private schools, etc. So Christian People's Party has chosen a different line. Is that a correct picture?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e272	No, of course it isn't, and so my information on the first point was completely correct. The Progress Party is demanding substantial tax relief, and we realized that they would also pursue the negotiations. It would not have been possible, in our opinion, to reconcile this time with strengthening efforts on the expenditure side, where the Progress Party too had very high demands. But there, together with the Workers' Party, we managed to find a more responsible solution. When it comes to choosing a page, I have to say that I am a little surprised that the Progress Party has now suddenly become so concerned about it. The Progress Party has always chosen different sides in Stortinget and cooperated with a maximum of different parties on a case-by-case basis. Not many weeks went by after the budget conciliation last fall before they chose to cooperate with what Sandberg calls the socialist side, in other matters. In the past, the Progress Party was strongly opposed to state ownership, but now they are strong for more state ownership, to mention one example. Alvheim has well shown that the Progress Party was about to throw this government, but now they're going to offer us a two-year cooperation agreement to cut us off from the possibilities of implementing the Sem declaration in areas where we don't have a majority with them. This is not at all linked!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e281	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e284	There may well be some features of Norwegian policy that may seem a little small, although the indignation is large. That is why I would like to invite the Prime Minister to make some comments on the situation in Iraq, because it is very serious. The security situation of the civilian population and soldiers is now such that they are still subject to provocations, attacks and suicides. This has recently suffered great Italian losses. It's still civilian loss, and it's still American loss. There are reports of many situations where there is neither plan nor control by the occupying powers. It is obvious to many that the United States has gone to war without having a plan to win the peace. My question is: What are Norway’s short-term demands on the occupying powers of the United States and the United Kingdom regarding the security of the civilian population and the soldiers and on policy solutions in the longer term?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e294	First of all, I agree with the representative, Kristin Halvorsen, that compared with a lot of other things, this is one of the most important questions we should spend more time on. Norway went against the war of the coalition forces against Iraq for two reasons. Firstly, we thought that other possibilities of finding out if Iraq had weapons of mass destruction were not exhausted, and we thought that the weapons inspectors should have had more time. Secondly, we believe that in such issues of conflict, it should be primarily the United Nations that has the decisive word, as it has had in other areas of conflict, such as the United Nations. in Afghanistan, and the UN Security Council, as is known, did not gather to go to military action. However, when that happened, as stated by the United States and the United Kingdom, we have found it right to contribute to the stabilisation of the situation in the country, and we have the UN resolution as the basis and mandate to do so. The security situation is not good enough. Firstly, the safety risk to the Norwegian forces is a function of the threat to the forces and, secondly, of the protection measures taken to respond to the threat. The threat is still — and has been — high. We therefore have a continuous assessment of the safety situation, and the structure around the strength protection has been continuously assessed. Among other things, our forces were fed armored ambulances. The Norwegian forces already follow strict rules and have good procedures for ensuring safety, while at the same time solving the mission. We mean by this reducing the probability that something will happen, without any guarantee. Of course, we demand that the coalition forces contribute to the highest possible level of security, including for the Norwegian stabilisation forces, which have largely humanitarian missions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e305	This serious situation requires a very offensive attitude from the Norwegian side, not only in relation to the security of our own 150 soldiers, but also generally in Iraq. It is obvious that Iraq is now attracting terrorist groups from other countries in the area and that there is no control over the security situation. It is such a serious situation that the Danes have begun to discuss whether they need to send more soldiers to secure their quota, and there are many countries that have initially called for a stricter UN resolution, which is holding soldiers back because the security situation is too poor. Our question is related to the special nature of this Norwegian force, because it is said to do humanitarian work in the first place, not in sharp situations, yes, it is even said to ‘sit in the camp’ if a security situation arises that threatens their security. The Commandant's Joint Organisation says they're in a war-like situation. Does the Prime Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e314	As I have made clear, Norway is not involved in the war against Iraq. If I were to answer yes to such a question, it would be in a way to redefine what SV also agreed with the Government, namely that we should not be part of this war. But it is UN resolutions that invite other countries, including those who did not go to war, to contribute to stabilisation in Iraq for the sake of the Iraqi people. And one should think carefully about before one starts to withdraw, because then a difficult situation can get even worse. The contribution of the Norwegian forces, which is mainly an engineering company, is for example: repair of power supply, explosive cleaning, mine clearance, bridge repair, repair of irrigation systems, gas supply and ABC studies. This is a serious situation. But if the answer is that now everyone is pulling out, I'm afraid the situation in Iraq is getting even worse for the Iraqi people. We want the UN to come in and take over as quickly as possible. That is what we have been working for, and the Americans are now beginning to give signals in that direction – fortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e323	There will be follow-up questions — Åslaug Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e326	Norwegian soldiers were sent to Iraq for humanitarian reasons, but the mission was politically motivated. The majority of the population wanted to provide political support to the occupying powers. This is what the Center Party thought was an unwise approach, and we were therefore opposed to sending the soldiers. Now the situation in Iraq is very difficult, and it is more difficult than it was when the Norwegian soldiers were sent. I have two questions. The first question is: does the Prime Minister see the need to change the mandate of the Norwegian soldiers after it turns out that they are actually involved in what is difficult to describe as something other than a warlike situation? The second question is: how much of the time of the soldiers in Iraq is now being used for humanitarian action?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e335	I don't have such timetables that I can answer that. But in response to Kristin Halvorsen, I have mentioned the main tasks of the Norwegian forces, and it emerged from them that they are clearly going for humanitarian purposes and reconstruction of Iraq. It is in line with the mandate. We have no reason to change the mandate, and I will insist that we are not at war with Iraq. I don't want to fool the position there was a broad consensus about in Stortinget, by beginning to give some other signals at that point. Otherwise, I will reserve myself against Åslaug Hagas' designation that we sent a limited force down to the stabilisation force to provide political support to the occupying powers. That wasn't the point at all. The point was to stabilise the situation in Iraq for the sake of the Iraqi people. We had hoped that the Center Party had seen and could have been more positive, but we are pleased that, among other things. The Labour Party has supported this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e342	Bjørn Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e345	The war that is now taking place in Iraq is part – at least the United States has defined it this way – of the so-called fight against terrorism. The main part of the activity is in the Middle East. We now see in Iraq that the United States is expanding with air war. We see that Israel's construction of the wall on occupied Palestinian land also fires under the unsafe situation in the area. The question I want to ask the Prime Minister is whether this works against terrorism, or whether it can be counterproductive, with new terrorist fronts and new recruitment to terrorist networks. Does Norway make any demands on the United States to obtain guarantees that it will not increase the recruitment of terrorists? Could be an e.g. are you thinking of pushing the United States in relation to Israel and building the wall there just to prevent new recruitment to terrorist groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e354	Now, the United States and the United Kingdom's intervention in Iraq were not justified in the fight against terrorism. They wanted to find out if Saddam Hussein was in possession of weapons of mass destruction. I think it's interesting that so far they haven't found a single weapon of mass destruction. It confirms my position and that of the Government. We were against this war. I'm going to hold on to that, and we are still. On the other hand, we have seen that, after this intervention, terrorist acts have also occurred in Iraq, even targeting the UN and the Red Cross. It doesn't make any sense. Organisations are only there to help the Iraqi people, which is also Norway. I agree that there are many factors that may stimulate terrorism. I have also had my own conference on this with Nobel Prize winner Elie Wiesel, to try to analyse it better. We also know that the situation in the Middle East contributes to terror, and we have therefore also warned Israel against building this wall, especially within the most controversial areas. Now the international community must put pressure on both the Palestinians, who are using terror, and on Israel, to get them back to the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e363	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e366	When I may not sound happier as a central party today, it is because the vote is a little limited, but I have a question for the Prime Minister. A different settlement was also made during the weekend, a good and sensible settlement about the differentiated employer’s fee, which can mean too many enterprises in the districts if it is followed up in a good way. Now there have been a few statements in retrospect, from the Right parliamentary leader and from the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, which may cast doubt on the ability and willingness to follow up on the compromise reached. I want to ask the Prime Minister for an assessment of how one will now enter the ESA process, and also whether he can assure us that they are now entering into a real process in which they are going to fight for greater exceptions, and that there should be no duty or game for the gallery.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e374	First of all, I am pleased that there was a cross-political agreement on the follow-up to the Government's arrangements with regard to a differentiated employer's fee, and that there is also a recognition in the Storting that we have to change the system after so many and clear messages from ESA. It is clear that when the government parties in Stortinget have agreed that we should re-examine a few important questions with ESA regarding both industries that can be exempted from this, and the time of implementation, we will do so in full seriousness. We've got the right answer to these questions before, so I don't want to hide that it's going to be a difficult process, but it's clear that we're going to implement it seriously. The government also believes it would be best if we could maintain the differentiated employer's fee in full, as we have had it to date. It is a simple and good system as part of our district policy. It is now quite clear – and I think most people acknowledge it – that it is not possible. We'll now try to get the second best system when we don't get to keep the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e383	I fully agree that it would have been best if we could maintain the entire differentiated employer fee, as it had been. A central point of the settlement reached is the possibility of full or partial industry or business exemptions. There is a question of whether ESA should at all be included in the picture. It is clear that there should be opportunities for the Government to design a model allowing State aid in respect of an activity which is not in competition with the rest of the world, whether in the case of individual enterprises or whole industries. That model should the Government now sit down and look further on. It is a model for which the Government should take initiative on an independent basis, and not just relate to what ESA may or may not mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e390	This has been assessed earlier in the process and with negative results, but it is clear that after the majority in the position of the Financial Committee, we will do so again. Of course, we make our own independent assessments, but as we know, we depend on our approval of what we notify ESA. The representative Arnstad knows that well. We're going to do what we can, and seriously, but I can't hide that it's a demanding task. I would also like to stress, so that everything else does not go away, that the whole amount that comes in due to a similar employer's fee will go back to the districts in the form of various measures such as transport aid, industrial development, etc. The public sector will be compensated. Fisheries and agriculture are excluded. We propose that the electricity tax be abolished in the first half of the year and a new system be introduced from the second half of the year. After the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party, we have also increased the allocation of nutrition measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e399	There will be follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e402	One of the problems with this matter has been that the Government and also the Prime Minister have had an extensive willingness to stick their heads in the sand and not see the realities until it is almost too late. That's bad. Another problem in dealing with the case now in the last round was that measures were proposed, for example: the reduction in the electricity charge was to be recognised as compensation for districts when the reality was that most of the tax relief was located in central areas. The agreement we have now concluded in Stortinget has corrected this. Such general tax reliefs are, first of all, poor distribution policies, but the worst thing is that they have nothing to do with district policy. So my question is: will the Government and the Prime Minister follow up on what needs to be done – for there is a lot of money that needs to be put in place in the next few years to meet this compensation too – ensure that there are no proposals that have a very bad regional distribution when proposing compensatory measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e411	I think we can probably discuss who has stabbed his head in the sand here and not yet seen the realities in his eyes! At least it's not the government. On the contrary, we have in time developed alternative arrangements that are durable if this needs to be implemented from 1 January. As you know, there is also a transitional period of three years in zones 3 and 4. The signal that I think it is necessary to discuss who has stabbed her head in the sand, when Karin Andersen came here with a completely erroneous production. It is not the case that the whole waste of the electricity tax proceeds has been included as district aid. Where did she get that? It is the estimated share of waste of the electricity charge in the districts that is included in this. So I think that someone each of us might want to think about where the head at the moment is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e418	Jens Stoltenberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e421	This is a very important matter. It's about large amounts and thousands of jobs in the districts. The problem is that the government has done too little. It is true that the government put forward an alternative arrangement, a compensation scheme, but it was too poor. Fortunately, therefore, we have had some improvements through the budgetary agreement, so that it is now added to the districts to compensate for the loss of the employer’s contribution. What is more serious is that the government is once again showing a lack of willingness to take seriously the negotiations with ESA. Norwegian negotiating positions are undermined by the fact that the Prime Minister here in the Grand Chamber says that he has little faith, not in the majority in Stortinget, but on it a unanimous increase is now in favour of us going new rounds with ESA. Then the prime minister says he doesn't think he can do it. It really undermines our negotiating positions. It's completely in line with what Oddvard Nilsen from the Right said yesterday, that he had no faith in this, that it was totally unrealistic. Government parties should not agree to sign that arrangement when they subsequently undermine the credibility of the requirements to ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e430	I would like to ask the representative Stoltenberg to stick to what I have said, not to what he thinks I have said. I didn't say I didn't think it would work. I have said that on the basis of the process that has been going on, it will be demanding. But we're going into work with full seriousness. I have not said at all that I do not believe this is possible. I would also like to ask the representative Stoltenberg to keep the dimensions in place here a little bit. We've been on a deal where we're increasing the funding for business development, I think it was 145 million. So it's going to be a total property of approximately NOK 1, but it's going to be a total property of about NOK 4, so it's going to be a total property of about NOK 4, so it's going to be a total property of about NOK 4, so it's going to be a total property of about NOK 4, so it's going to be a total property of about $ 4, so it's going to be a total property of about $ 4, so it's going to be a total You can't imagine this as if we've now recognized that it was too small, and that you had to do a lot more here. You have to have the proportions a little bit clear, 145 million. NOK 80 billion. But we don't have another 145 million. kr to industrial development. We think it's good for the districts. I didn't say we don't think it would work. We're taking full responsibility for our work now, both internally and in relation to ESA. We're going to do what we can to get what the Storting has decided to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e439	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e442	There is enough reason to agree with Jens Stoltenberg that the Prime Minister does not demonstrate the very great belief in achieving a different result. It is alarming that a unanimous increase obliges the Government to take a new round on something that has repeatedly denied both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance that it would be possible to obtain a result. The government parties are also involved in this. My follow-up question is about the electricity charge. It is inappropriate to consider this as compensation for the loss of the employer’s contribution for the proportion of districts that have reduced the employer’s contribution. At the same time as removing the employer’s charge for the whole country, the regional advantage you have had through a reduced employer’s fee will be zeroed. So you're going to give a treasure map in central space. In the areas where there has been a reduction in the employer’s contribution, this is considered to compensate for the loss of the employer’s contribution. You reduce the benefit. It's improperly a fact. Does the Prime Minister not see that the regional policy advantage that has been enjoyed in the past is being weakened?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e450	I would suggest to the President that if there is ever more and more detail about the differentiated employer fee, the Minister of Finance, who is responsible for this area, sits in the Chamber, and he can answer questions if that is right for the representative of Enoxsen. I just want to correct something the representative Enoch said. I guess it was a delay when he talked about removing the employer's fee for the whole country. So that's the electricity charge you remove from the first six months. I guess that's what he meant. We haven't denied that it can work. We've been honest enough to say that it's been tried before with negative results. That's why I think it's right that we're being honest now, saying it's going to be demanding. But we would never have allowed the government parties to agree to this in Stortinget if we thought in advance that it was impossible to make a new attempt. We're going to be able to do that experiment with full force. I can assure the representative, Mr Enoksen, of that. If the President gives it up, the Minister of Finance can go into further details on the electricity charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e461	The President will draw attention to the fact that the last words have now been said about the employer’s fee in this round. The Prime Minister himself could have left the Minister of Finance to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e466	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e469	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. The amount of black work in the Norwegian economy is now between 80 and 100 million. kr. It is also confirmed in a letter from the Ministry of Finance. It concerns not only economic activities registered by the tax authorities but also financial crime. This is considerable sums. In fact, there are sums so large that they are soon to start threatening important welfare schemes. Is the Minister of Finance comfortable with that situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e476	No, especially if the amounts are billions and not millions, as the questioner did damage to say. There are large amounts that can be collected through better control. That is why we have always had a work going on, and it is now being completed in terms of customs duties. The tax base is well in the process of redeploying its work by introducing data and reorganising it, so that we can improve the capacity to carry out controls. Not least the overall controls carried out by various public departments, labour supervision, police, food control, taxes, taxes and customs in relation to individual industries and in individual areas have produced good results in the sense that, unfortunately, a lot of fraud has been revealed with different types of legislation. The coordinated control actions are both effective and deliver good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e483	As I said, as it approaches NOK 100 billion in this coal-black system, it means a lot in the development of our welfare systems and ensuring the welfare systems of our society. When we also know that building up the control apparatus and the tax haven, etc., will restore diversity, why is the Minister of Finance so anxious to set in motion even stronger control mechanisms, so that we can bring this black economy more into the light and more into the public sphere?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e488	I am not anxious to initiate stronger control actions. I don't understand where that premise is taken from. I have just explained – and Stortinget has followed up – all the reorganisation we have carried out within the Customs and Tax Directorate and within the tax department, just to increase the capacity to operate control where we think there is something to get through control. It's given results.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e493	There will be follow-up questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e496	I fully agree with the Minister of Finance that it is important to facilitate the implementation of greater controls to combat black work and economic crime, but it is also important to devote so much resources to identifying the reason why the scale of black work is increasing so strongly. It may be related to the diversity of taxes and taxes imposed through all these services and all these links up to the end-user, which in fact makes many find it more appropriate, even if it is not allowed, to sell their services black. Does this mean that the Minister of Finance and the Government will be equally concerned with trying to combat black work through lower taxes and taxes, and not just through controls, which, after all, do not address the causes of black work?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e501	The answer is yes. We have also reduced taxes and taxes more than any recent government has done, 19 billion kroner in two years. We have abolished the investment fee, which was a fee with significant control problems. The air passenger charge is gone, and we will continue the review of customs tariffs, several hundred of which have already been removed. The control problems were very great according to the customs system itself. I remember that the first problem I encountered in Stortinget as Minister of Finance was, in fact, a criticism from the Progress Party in the Control Committee, where party leader Hagen is sitting, that the municipal control of employers' payments was too weak. We have taken up this work, and a working group has now come a long way in reviewing it to see if we can find solutions that unite both the municipal requirements and the state requirements for better control of the tasks submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e508	Audun Bjørlo Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e512	The figures referred to by the representative Nordtun are figures that have also been shown to be relevant in relation to both central and external public finances. I perceive the Minister of Finance's answer to that, that the resource situation of the tax administration can be seen a little independent of these figures. Is it so to understand that the Minister of Finance does not believe that more resources to the tax haven and reorganization processes are more in line with the wishes of the agencies and offices locally, will have an impact on the sums revealed by this letter from the Department?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e517	I think one should take the type of estimate of possible black work with some caution. Those who make the estimates also make strong reservations. It is true that the resource situation in the customs and tax haven and in the tax budget are obviously such that they need to give priority at all times. No state agency, I think, gets unlimited access. This has not happened during any other government either. Reorganisations have now been carried out in order to focus on the major issues and less on detailed controls. The treatment of the tax returns of ordinary employees is gradually significantly automated, so that the possibilities of controlling large commercial tax relationships, to put it that way, have increased significantly over recent years. It's a development that will continue. Not least the establishment of the Central Tax Office on Major Enterprises and the fact that several equations are now being treated centrally, and on a proposal from the Government now also the equations of the power companies, will provide a better opportunity for control.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e524	Ranveig Frøiland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e527	It's the Ministry of Finance's figures we keep up when we talk about black economy and economic crime. The refresher has also said in a report that a tax of between $2.9 and $10.9 billion is not taxed. There is not enough reorganization. When you look at the Evening Post from Monday, you see that one gets very large sums if one runs control. Then is my question to the Minister of Finance: Is the Minister of Finance so afraid to appoint more people in the state, in the Chamber Office and in the Tax Office, that he does not in any way dare to seize it? I don't think reorganisation can catch all of this. One is required to have more people who exercise control, who go out and give advice to these people. They're actually saying that there's a need for the public to do it. So fear of assigning people to the state must not be so great.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e534	I think the questioner can take it easy, the finance minister is never afraid of getting increased income. But at the same time, we're doing something to make the tax system simpler, more transparent, for most people. The tax reform that comes, hopefully, will contribute to that. I can just give you one example. Today the customs office treats almost 100 pst. of customs declarations on the Internet. The paperwork is gone. It is clear that it has provided a much better opportunity to operate active, outreach control, as we see examples of providing significant results. So it's actually the way that reorganisation, the relocation of offices, the pooling of offices, the concentration of where the major border trade problems are, where the smuggling problems are, actually produce results in combination with the use of new technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e541	Morten Lund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e544	It's very well documented that society has huge losses due to black economy. It is also well documented that each tax controller can give an additional 3 million. kr per year. Evidence has been provided from researchers both this year and last year. Ten new tax controllers could make it unnecessary to cut child care for lone dependants, for example: This is purely gain, and it is strange that nothing is done in the individual budget. In some sectors, for example: in the restaurant industry and in the construction industry, you are plagued with all those who are allowed to continue to operate unprofessionally and who make it almost impossible to operate seriously, for those who want it. I think that's the big problem. This is so contagious. It's said that the risk of being taken is so small that this is just going to increase. Doesn't the Minister of Finance see that part of the issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e551	I think you should be a little careful about using numbers on what profit can be in the short term. But it is clear that increased staffing can happen by adding overall more resources, or that the department concentrates more on the major control tasks. Not in any industry today can you be sure that there will be no burdensome control. This concerns the construction industry, in the case of fish exporters, and it concerns a series of other industries in which we have had some quite significant findings through an intensified and coordinated control activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e558	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e564	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative Knut Storberget to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative Anne Helen Rui. Question 13, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him. Question 14, from the representative Johnny Hult to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be raised by the representative Per Roar Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e581	I want to move on to an area where the situation can be much worse compared to what it is today. That is why I have the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘There are several positive developments in the human rights situation in Turkey. Among other things, the death penalty has finally been abolished. However, there is still reason to criticise the country for treating the Kurdish minority. What is the Government’s view of the Kurdish situation in Turkey today, and how can Norway contribute to increased respect for their cultural and political rights?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e590	As part of Turkey’s EU alignment, a number of constitutional and legislative changes have been adopted over the past few years, bringing about a radical improvement in the human rights situation in Turkey. The aim is to bring Turkish legislation fully into line with the policy conditions for EU membership, the so-called Copenhagen criteria. The reform work in Turkey was given a new impetus after the parliamentary elections on 3 November last year. Turkey's current Prime Minister was himself imprisoned on a political basis in the 1990s. Both the government of Turkey and the strong forces of the National Assembly are working to strengthen human rights and the rule of law in Turkey. There is a positive development in Turkey also in relation to the Kurdish population of the country. The armed conflict in South-East Turkey is now over. The state of exemption in the area has been phased out. In August of this year, Turkey adopted a ‘amnestilov’ on the reintegration of PKK members other than those who have been members of the management bodies of the organisation. Turkey has also adopted new legislation opening up education in and in Kurdish, use of Kurdish languages in public contexts, broadcasting in Kurdish and the practice of Kurdish culture. This legislation also represents an important step in the right direction. Although there is a major improvement in the legal basis for human rights in Turkey, there is still some remaining to put legislation into practice. The Turkish authorities acknowledge that they are still facing major challenges. Turkey is at a stage where international support for reform is important, both at political and practical level. The Prime Minister addressed these questions with the Turkish Prime Minister during his recent visit to Ankara and highlighted in particular the importance of allowing the use of minority languages. On the part of the Government, we will continue to support Norwegian projects in Turkey with a view to building democracy and strengthening the protection of human rights and the rule of law. We also underline to the Turkish authorities the importance of implementing the new reform legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e605	I thank you for your answer. It is absolutely right that there have been some improvements on the legislative page. Nevertheless, there is now information that the situation of the Kurds in Turkey has actually deteriorated. Despite the introduction of a unilateral ceasefire on the part of the PKK, the Turkish state continues the violence and harassment. I would warn you that if the Kurds do not feel that they are in practice getting any improvement in their rights, there may be a dangerous situation. Therefore, the Kurdish National Congress has launched a ‘road map’ for peace with elements such as mutual truce, the establishment of a Committee on Peace Dialogue with broad participation, the development plan for the Kurdish areas and full cultural rights and the right to training in Kurdish practice. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that one of the keys to peace in the Middle East is in fact the solution to the Kurdish question? And will Norway take the initiative to launch a process around such a road map for peace that has been launched?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e614	I think we should be aware of the enormous dynamics of Turkey adapting to the requirements of EU membership. Here is really one of the positive, democratic and human rights-building measures that are taking place in our part of the world. There is a dynamic that has led to a development that I agree with the questioner that is definitely going in a positive direction. The measures I believe to be correct from the Norwegian side have been outlined in my reply. I cannot now take a stand on a road map, but I agree with the questioner that resolving the questions facing the Kurds is one of many important steps forward for the whole region to evolve towards democracy and human rights. The frustrating thing about the region is that there are a huge number of such challenges where, unfortunately, lack of democracy, lack of human rights and lack of economic development have led to far too many negative features.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e621	I thank you again for the answer. I would urge the Foreign Minister to look seriously at this road map, which contains a number of very constructive proposals. I am also pleased that he pointed out that one of the keys lies in the solution of the Kurdish question. Then there's another question I want to raise with him. There is no doubt that the health status of Abdullah Öcalan in the short term is also a key issue. It's very serious. If he dies because of the conditions he is surrounded by, I am afraid it will lead to riots. One has to understand Öcalan's position among the Kurds. When he entered the arena and claimed fundamental cultural and human rights for the Kurdish people, he became a seed of a new Kurdish identity – therefore it raged over the treatment of him. The Kurds say that Öcalan's health is our health. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs support sending an independent medical team to Imrali and Öcalan?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e630	There is reason to stress that there have been very significant improvements in the situation of the Kurds in Turkey over the last few years, and I think we are all pleased about that. It is, as I said, also a question of implementation itself. There might be things that remain. At the same time, I would like to say that it has been clear all along that we are responding to violence, including that used by the Kurds. When it comes to Öcalan's situation, I won't be able to comment on it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e642	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: «Borg Breweries in Sarpsborg is a modern company with 200 jobs. Due to high taxes on beer, non-alcoholic drinks and borderline location, significant market shares are lost for border trade in beer in addition to smuggling, imported wine and spirits. Today's distorting framework conditions in Norwegian disfavor can mean closure. What will the Council of State do to improve the framework conditions for the brewing industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e651	The taxes on beer were slightly reduced in the 2002 budget. With the Government's draft budget for next year, the taxes on all beverages would be reduced by a further 2.5 pst. real. However, in the budgetary agreement with the Labour Party, we had to waive this relief. The Swedish government has not proposed any changes in its alcohol charges for the next year. Since the Cooperative Government joined in the autumn of 2001, the difference between Norwegian and Swedish beer taxes has narrowed slightly. The Border Trade Committee pointed out that the unregistered consumption of beer, i.e. smuggling, tax-free, border trade and home production are relatively small. A significant part of border trade takes place with goods which are subject to excise duties to a small extent, including: meat products and other groceries. The level of costs in Norway is consistently significantly higher than in Sweden. This is largely due to a high Norwegian salary level. The cost of compensation for Norwegian industrial workers was last year 35 p.m. higher than the Swedish. A tight budget for 2003 has contributed to significant interest reductions, and the Norwegian krona has weakened compared to Swedish krona. This has made it less profitable for the Nordics to act in Sweden. In order to avoid the reinvigoration of the crown, the main incentives for economic activity should continue to flow through monetary policy. The budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party facilitates this. Such policies help to improve the conditions of all industries exposed to international competition, including the brewing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e660	In order to establish the actual situation, Norway has the highest beer prices in Europe and, with the budgetary agreement, it continues to increase by 2.5 pst. If Borg Breweries, a modern brewery, had had the same beer fees as in Sweden, they would be fully competitive and, in fact, able to produce some goods more reasonably than in Sweden. To take an example of how bad this is: Borg Breweries delivers Christmas beer to Sweden. If Kari and Ola eastfolding drove after the brewery of the Swedish system companies, they could buy back Norwegian goods and save NOK 10.50 on a bottle of Christmas beer! Is it not soon that we do something about these unfairnesses, so that the 5,300 brewing sites we have left in Norway can remain in Norway? I remember that we've lost one big and two smaller breweries all this year. The only thing that happens is that the jobs are moved out, but the beer is consumed anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e669	This presentation of facts is highly misleading and, at some points, directly insane. Point 1: There will be no increase in charges if charges are adjusted. Point 2: If you're driving after a beer car and you're taking beer back to Norway, it's very limited what you get back, so I'm actually not recommending that trip if it's just to buy the allowed bottles of beer. The representative has then been harmed to provide advice to which consumers will lose weight. Point 3: In all countries there are job losses in the beer industry. It has something to do with technology, big units. Recently we have seen that a partial Norwegian brewery in Sweden has been closed as a result of restructuring in the industry, and a known dispute on the same theme in Norway was about Tou Bryggeri in Stavanger. So that industries restructure is nothing new, and it has nothing to do with taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e674	I just have to say that I strongly disagree with the Minister of Finance. It must be clear, then, that if the charges are at the same level, and the Government and the business-friendly Right does not follow up with the same level of charges that neighbouring countries have, we will have a negative distortion of competition, in Norwegian disfavor, and it will of course mean that we lose many industrial jobs. I would like to remind you that we have lost 21 000 industrial jobs – almost the largest industrial death in Norway – from the third quarter of last year to the third quarter of the current year. So what the Minister of Finance contributes to is to phase out new parts of the Norwegian industry, in this case the brewing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e679	It is true that there has been a decrease in the number of industrial workplaces. It's not due to beer fees. I think the representative might agree with that after a little pause of thought. If the policy of the Progress Party had been implemented in terms of the release of oil revenues, we would have seen a number of larger numbers in terms of the loss of industrial jobs. For this reason, an industry-Norway group is pleased that this type of liberalized economic policy is not the policy of the majority of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e687	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘In a letter dated 29/9-03, dated 2003-0616, the Ombudsman states, inter alia: issues relating to the km rates for vehicle taxation and requests that the rates be assessed down with effect for 2003. These rates are usually set by the Tax Directorate only in the month of November/December 2003. In a letter from the Tax Directorate to the Civil Ombudsman dated 4/11-03, the tax director states that the opinion of the Civil Ombudsman will not be taken into account when setting the rates for 2003. Does the Council support this assessment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e696	The Ombudsman wrote in his letter of 29 September 2003 that it would be desirable for the 2003 rates to be set on the basis of the review notified by the Directorate-General for Taxation. The representative Hagesetter asked me a question in the form of a letter on this matter at the end of September this year. I was asked what I would do in the light of the Civil Ombudsman's statement. I replied that there would be an assessment of several aspects of the company car tax and the return of the private advantage from the use of a commercial car. The work now under way is more extensive than the isolated assessment of the level of mileage to which the Civil Ombudsman refers. This review will, however, ensure that all the facts pointed out by the Civil Ombudsman in his opinion are assessed. On the other hand, there will be no basis for drawing conclusions from this work at the time when the Tax Directorate will set the final rates for 2003. This is the background for the Tax Directorate's reply to the Civil Ombudsman. I believe that it is therefore not right to claim that the answer means that the Civil Ombudsman’s opinion is not taken into account. Instead, it is about obtaining a sound decision-making basis in a complex and complex case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e705	I want to thank you for your answer. When it comes to the written question that the Minister of Finance answered, the answer was given before this letter from the Directorate of Taxation, and as I understand it, the Minister of Finance would take the initiative to review the stencil of both 13 000 km and how much individual tax would be taxed, but also the Tax Directorate would look at the rates. It has been published both in relation to this letter sent, and in relation to the Minister of Finance, it is now true that one does not want to take into account his statements when fixing the 2003 rates, as requested by the Civilombudsman. My question is: does not the Minister of Finance believe that this attitude can weaken the authority of the Civilombudsman?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e710	No, I don't think so. It's our professional assessment, and it's the Tax Directorate that's here, that in order to answer the Civil Ombudsman's question about the level of mileage, a broader professional assessment needs to be carried out. It'll take time. We cannot give a satisfactory answer to the Ombudsman's assessments until we have also looked at other parts of the company's car and commercial car tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e715	I thought that there was a good basis for dealing with this, and this doesn't have to be done very much. It's obvious here that tax payers are taxed more than for the advantage that a person actually has when he has a company car. I just want to take a simple example: if one has a car of 300,000 kroner, and the employer puts this car at the employee's disposal, the value, the benefit, per. Kilometers estimated at NOK 7 If the employee makes a similar car available to the employer, the benefit, the value, is calculated at NOK 3 Could the Minister of Finance give a brief answer as to why this benefit is valued at NOK 7 in one context and NOK 3 in another context?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e720	I have understood, according to practice and regulations, that additional questions should be addressed on the main issue. The main issue was the follow-up to the Civil Ombudsman's initiative. I've answered that. Going into a debate on what is to be assessed is beyond the question I am asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e725	The President agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e732	This question, from the representative Knut Storberget to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative Anne Helen Rui.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e735	‘Folldal municipality in Hedmark is satisfied with the manned labour office four hours every other week. Intrusion rates and burglaries in local banks have helped to increase the demand for police presence, which is also the intention of police reform. Does the State Council consider the situation in Folldal to be satisfactory, and is there any possibility for the Government to strengthen district police, as the Labour Party has called for?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e742	Alvdal and Folldal County include the municipalities of Alvdal and Folldal. The County of Lensmann has offices in Alvdal. As a service to the population of Folldal, the County of Länsmann has established a permanent office day, 4 hours every Wednesday, in the Municipality of Folldal. Due to a long-term health report, the scheme has been reduced to 4 hours every other week since the spring of 2003. He is now back. The fact that Folldal is not yet back with a 4-hour schedule every week is due to the fact that he has received a short-term sick report from his employees at the same time. The district will reintroduce weekly arrangements as soon as it is back. The office day in Folldal is not a contingency plan, but a service offer where the County of Länsmann provides advice, is responsible for the delivery of various forms, passports and the like. The offer has been relatively little used by the audience. On average, the office received from one to five enquiries during the days it had been a police officer. The daily guards and police officers of the County of Lensmann are exercised from the office in Alvdal. Besides office hours and weekends, the County of Länsmann cooperates with four other districts of Länsmann, Tynset, Tolga and Os, Røros and Holtålen, on police preparedness. This allows for a 24-hour continuous standby, consisting of backup and active police service. The chief of police in Hedmark informs us that continuous efforts are being made to improve the emergency situation in all parts of the police district. The objective is for the district, through the coordination of administrative and joint operational tasks and the rational organisation and operation of individual holdings, to release resources for more operational and public work, in line with the main objectives of the police reform. Unfortunately, burglary and burglary are part of the crime scene in Norway. With scattered settlements and large geographical distances, it is impossible for the police to fully prevent this. At the same time, however, it can be said that the development of crime in Alvdal and Folldal County is very positive for the current year. Per. On 1 November this year, the number of simple thefts has been reduced by 16 p.m. and the number of serious thefts has been reduced by 53.7 p.m. compared to the corresponding time last year. It is the Commissioner's job and responsibility to provide a good police service throughout the police district. I trust that the Police Directorate and the Police Commissioner will ensure that Hedmark Police District has a good police service throughout the district, in line with the aims of the police reform. Let me add: With the information I have obtained, Alvdal and Folldal County have been merged for over 20 years, and based on information from the local loner, there has not been any permanent resident in Folldal during the same period. With regard to the whole of the police reform, it was presented by the government of Stoltenberg in its time, both in terms of defining important objectives and parts 1 and 2 of the reform. I have previously said that although I disagreed on certain points then, I have loyally followed up the reform, so that there should be consistency between what the Labour Party has previously agreed on, and what I have in practice chosen to follow up as Minister of Justice, not just for the district, but for the whole country, in terms of combating crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e761	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Today, police work is measured by percentage of information, time of proceedings and unsolved cases. Shouldn't we start measuring police work in other ways too? Does the Council of State agree that there is an opportunity to think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e768	The representative raises an unusually important issue. I have said in the past – I would like to repeat it and elaborate on it – that as long as we don't have any other measuring instruments, we use the ones we have. But it's quite obvious that when it does, for example, On one side of the criminal landscape, preventing young people from becoming criminals, we cannot easily measure it in percentage terms, but we know that through good cooperation – that is, good cooperation in Norwegian – we can get results. Maybe we can get those results through good and successful stories – and let's call it the best practice – that we enjoy sharing with others. Of course, something similar can be done about organized crime, which is also very time consuming. In addition, we can do this through the efforts that the police are now making in many places in Norway: they look at the map, they see where the events take place, and then they try to be there in advance, preferably in cooperation with the local population, to both prevent crime and quickly defeat it. And then you think in new ways. I will therefore take the representative's question to me in my further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e775	I thank the Council of State for that answer too. I know that the police reform must be evaluated. Is that evaluation also taking into account and seeing how the economy and human resources, if any, have been distributed during the reform period, and thinking about the government in the future, not only with regard to police, but also with regard to economics?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e782	It is an evaluation that we first have to measure against many factors. We have to measure it against how people in the police experience it, how people experience it. We need to look at the economic developments that have taken place and at resource developments. We have to do that in a real way. I agree with the Joint Chief of Police, Arne Johannessen, who says that the reform has been very important, but that in Norway there is always a debate on resources. Then it is also important to measure good examples of the wise use of resources, and some of it is actually at the heart of the question raised by the representative on behalf of the representative of Storberget, namely that it is wise to make sure locally – if one does so in a special way – that one does so. You actually do that in the whole country. Securing both homes and food helps prevent crime in many places. Then the police's efforts come together with the local efforts, and then we'll be able to accept that both imagination and wit – and I think that in a good sense – are evenly distributed in the country. Cooperation between good local knowledge and good police is essential for the security of the population. That's what I'm doing for both the reform and my responsibility for the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e791	‘If an accident occurs for a period of less than 16 years and is permanently damaged, compensation and future acquisition losses shall be calculated in accordance with the standard rules laid down in Sections 3 to 2a of the Law on Compensation for Damage. The maximum amount of compensation paid in the event of a finding of 100 % permanent medical disability is 40G [[2,274,440 kroner]] Will the State Council propose changes to the law to provide children and adults with equivalent protection against damages?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e798	The question raised by the representative Holstad is one of several issues discussed in the NOU 1994:20 Principle Study. The investigation addresses a number of questions relating to the measurement of personal injury compensation, but is not a traditional legal investigation with concrete legislative proposals. The main issue in the investigation is the question of standardisation of the measurement rules more generally, which in the case of adult substitution is also standardised to a greater or lesser extent. The idea behind this is to make the compensation arrangements easier. Another important issue in the investigation is how the deduction rules for benefits from pension and insurance schemes should be. In addition, several individual questions have been raised in relation to the rules on the measurement of child benefit. In addition to the initiation of the investigation in order to consider increasing the maximum rate of 40G to 45G, this should be done, inter alia. raise the question of the importance of the age of the child and the question of whether, in some more specific cases, access should be given to a more individual assessment than is currently provided for by the rules. Further, it is, among other things, raised a question of introducing future replacement until the child reaches the age of 18. I also believe that there might be reason to consider whether the lower limit of 15 pst. disability as a condition for compensation under the standard rule for compensation to children should be maintained as at present. The representative Holstad compares the level of compensation with the level of compensation for which the victim is over 16 years of age. It is in my answer that there is reason to consider the child replacement rule more closely. However, when comparing the maximum of the substitution rule with a general level of compensation, I must point out that the substitution rule applies only to the male and the future acquisition loss. This also mentions the representative Holstad. This means that the compensation items covering the costs incurred, small and future, are measured in accordance with normal rules. This comes as an addition to the standardised child replacement. In many claims settlements, the cost compensation is a significant item. Several of the issues raised in this personal injury investigation may be relevant for further investigation with a view to developing concrete legislative proposals. Among other things, this clearly applies to the child-replacement rule. Part of this work will be to assess the level at which the maximum rate should be set today, for example. 45G or any higher level. In further work, it may be appropriate to set up a legislative committee to draw up concrete legislative proposals on these issues. I aim to clarify the further progress of the matter which has been raised here, and which has been answered by me, over the turn of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e816	I thank you for your answer. One of the recommendations in NOU 1994:20 was to consider setting up a body which, at the request of one or both parties to an insurance case, should have the competence to provide advice on medical issues. Despite positive feedback from the Dørum State Council in 1999, the body is not yet established. How will the Council of State explain this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e821	That's right. The Ministry then put down a good deal of work on this issue, after it was forced ahead of other questions in NOW 1994:20. In 1999 a specific legislative proposal was also drawn up in the Ministry to facilitate the establishment of such a body in the field of industry, subject to certain rules and official controls in order to ensure the necessary independence. After consulting, inter alia: Both the Insurance Association, the Medical Association and the injured party's spokespersons and the consumer's side were set aside to await the investigation of the Røsæg Committee. One wanted to deal with the question further there. The setting of the Shrimp Committee is printed in NOU 2000:23; Collection, use and storage of health information by insurance companies. The committee proposes the establishment of a neutral body for the appointment of a medical specialist and an advisory medical professional body. The follow-up to this part of NOU 2000:23 has been added to the Ministry of Health and will be seen in the context of the follow-up of NOU 2001:12, on forensic expertise in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e826	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Based on my knowledge of this issue, I hope that the Council of State can help to get ahead, possibly get a case forward, so that we can meet the need that is clearly in our country in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e833	As I have explained, the matter is demanding – legal and working. Then it also has the'middle' for reasons I did not have an overview of when I gave the answer in 1999. I have explained this migration and am due to take the initiatives I can take in order to bring the migration to a wise conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e842	‘The abuse of police emergency number 112 is a problem that proves to be difficult to combat. Besides requiring resources to handle all these calls, it may also block the need for necessary calls. Persons may not be punished for misuse of the emergency number unless this results in a specific call-out. This does not mean that the possibility of punishment is real, among other things. where a repeater does not need a call-out. What will the Council of State do to solve this problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e849	The Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the departments concerned, has launched an investigation entitled ‘Simplification and efficiency of emergency response services’, which will be completed in spring 2004. It shall apply, inter alia, to: the current organisation of emergency services, the transfer to, where appropriate, one emergency number, availability to the public and measures to improve the security of the transmission of emergency communications in the telecommunications network. The issue raised by the representative Kukkestad in his question is expected to be assessed in the investigation. I would like to provide some factual information on the use of emergency numbers: the results of a survey carried out in the autumn of 2001 show that, unfortunately, errors and misuse of emergency numbers are widespread. The country’s emergency centres received 1,7 million messages or calls in 2000, of which the police received about 1 000. One million. About 78 pst. of which – with the police 92 pst. - are characterised as error messages, incorrect use or misuse of the emergency services. Despite this, the figures show that the real needs of the population correspond to almost 386 000 messages — at the police 83,000 — which make up about 1,058 real calls per day, at the police 227, half of which are from the police 22 p.m. – led to an exclamation. I would also like to comment on what is referred to here as ‘abuse’: A 1999 survey of six police districts in central Norway concluded that the police emergency number 112 was mainly divided into three categories: 1st@item: inlistbox Technical or human error — including from children who miss rings.2. Calls from people who think they can call the police with general enquiries or who think trivial matters qualify for emergency calls.3. Calls with false information made aware of the police's need to move out. The study shows that the causes of the failures are very complex and that there is only a limited part that is deliberately misuse of the emergency number. In addition, the conditions imposed by the penal code would limit the possibility for the police to have a criminal response. It is also known that the investigation of such cases is often disproportionately resource-intensive. However, it is important that the police respond. In many cases, the police seek out the persons concerned, or the parents of children and young people who abuse the emergency number, to explain the seriousness of the case. It is felt that this has been effective, without criminal proceedings being established. Although there are some limited opportunities to address the problem of abuse, I would like to mention an action that I expect to have a major impact on. This concerns the introduction of the new police service number 02800 and the campaigns undertaken to make this known. According to the Police Directorate, studies carried out show a marked increase in the use of this number.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e880	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the Haugesunds Avis on November 13, there was a suggestion that the police too felt that it was a problem that people of adult age had constant calls to the police emergency number – this was not the police districts to which the Council of State referred, but in the Sunnhordland police district. It appears that there is a desire not only to be able to make calls with those who abuse the emergency number, but also to have a rice behind the mirror, namely a penalty. This is not possible under the current law. Would the Council consider adjusting the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e887	I don't want to go into details, but of course, in consultation with the Police Directorate when we are going to address this issue, which is closely linked to the police reform, I want to see if there are any other reactions that are needed to help and defeat abuse. I'm not going to stand in the way of practical forms of it, but I want the police to have contact primarily with other means, such as ensuring that the general public is informed that you are not going to use 112, but 02800, with those who abuse it. If it turns out that there are repeaters, whom I understand the representative is concerned about, and that in this context we have to look at instruments, I am open to assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e892	I thank the Council of State for that answer too. What is the dilemma in such cases is that if you move out and this is an abuse of an emergency number, you have the opportunity to have a penalty. However, if one finds that the person does not need a call-out, it is not possible to use the law in the criminal context. Could it not be that the Council of State recommends to the police to make a call-out only in order to be allowed to avail itself of the law, i.e. a penalty?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e899	I have now explained that there are a limited number of situations in which we have what we call the very active and cynical conscious abuse. I believe that this is what the representative Kukkestad means to bring up. I have said in a previous answer that I would like to discuss with the Police Directorate what can be effective means to combat this, but it must also be so that the police can make a reasonable effort to stop this, even in relation to other efforts the police have to make. But if there are practical opportunities here that will help, I have said – and I repeat it – that I would like to discuss it with the Police Directorate. We have to do what we can, not just by good public education and good education, which I gave examples of, but we also have to look at other necessary measures. That's what I'm open to considering.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e909	‘The Dracian industry reports an explosive increase in the number of pirate taxis. It's claimed that the pirate taxi industry has a turnover of about 200 million. kr annually. The income of the industry is not reported to the equality authorities and is therefore excluded from taxation. Furthermore, drivers of pirate taxis do not have insurance to ensure that passengers are taken care of in the event of an accident. How does the Council of State assess the development of the piracy industry and does the Council of State consider that action is needed to bring the industry to life?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e916	There have been reports from several police districts in recent years of an increase in the number of illegal pirate taxis – and I would call it illegal pirate taxis and not an industry. These developments are of concern to the extent that, as the representative Marthinsen points out, there are several types of illegality. Both the public, through the problem of ‘black’ placing on the market, and individuals using pirate taxis, through lack of security and security, suffer significant disadvantages through this illegal activity. Action against piracy falls within the competence of several authorities, which implies that effective control requires active cooperation between the various bodies for the implementation of the measures to be implemented, both in order to prevent and follow-up the necessary actions. Furthermore, this is an area where there is a particular focus on interaction with the audience to find solutions. Active information to the public on the lack of safety measures, insurance and control is an instrument that has proven to have a good preventive effect. Other instruments that have proven to dampen the activity are active use of signs prohibiting parking or stopping, as well as physical blocking of the areas where the cars pick up their passengers. Another measure is to reduce the need for illegal activity through increased legal transport capacity, such as several legal taxis, or increased public transport in the exposed areas. Overall, a coordinated response to both prevention and strict and consistent criminal prosecution of the illegal conditions associated with the establishment will be of great importance. Police are actively working to stop the pirate dross, and in several police districts, cross-border cooperation is under way to combat illegal activity. The police officer in Søndre Buskerud explains that in this district, interdisciplinary cooperation with, among other things, has been established. The drama municipality and the transport industry. The Drammen police have further led to a restrictive position on the established prohibition signs, with consistent enforcement and fines on pirate taxi drivers. Several concrete actions are also planned for the future. I trust that the Police Directorate and the police officers will take the development of the piracy industry – where I have to correct myself: the development of the use of piracy – seriously, and give the area the necessary priority and follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e931	Yes, I can largely join what the Council of State says, and thank you for the answer. I also agree that ‘nutrition’ is certainly an inappropriate word in this context, because this is of the things that are illegal, and then there should be no nutrition either. What I think is important — there are many essential elements in what the Council of State has said — is that it underlines the need to provide this subject area, or the lack of the subject area, the necessary follow-up, so that several departments cooperate. It has been written, at the latest last night in the evening post, and in the Drammen's Official Journal, also yesterday, that the police will now look at this with patrols and other follow-up, perhaps now especially in time towards Christmas when there are long queues and also the taxi industry has a special responsibility to ensure that people do not stand up too long and wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e940	I have noticed what the representative has registered in the evening post, and I know from before that the police, among others. in Oslo, in cooperation with the industry, action has been taken. I would also like to point out the excellent industry here in Oslo has done, by ensuring that you arrange cows and by having guards in place to control this at important times of the year. I also know about such initiatives elsewhere. The keyword is precisely cooperation between the serious transport industry and the police, and that the public has knowledge. I think it's important for the audience to have knowledge of what can ultimately be at risk with pirate taxis. I think it's important to cooperate with the industry. And I think it's important that, as I said in my first answer, you cooperate in a transversal way, and I've given examples of that. I think what the police in Søndre Buskerud have done in this way is excellent – also the measures they have given me information about their implementation. That is why I have also said that I trust that the police are doing this job well, because they know that in cooperation with others they will also get more for the police resources than if they are doing this alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e947	I thank you again for the answer from the Council of State. Let me just, as a final follow-up to this, stress that the Council of State in the answer says that it should be: ‘a strict and consistent criminal prosecution of illegal offences’. I allow myself to ask, because I don't know, what the strict prosecution is. Personally, I ask myself the question: Should you not, for example, withdraw the licence for these persons? Should you go as far as seizing the pirate taxi? And not least I wonder about this with taxation of the so-called black income. As far as I have been informed, and as has been announced through the newspaper in the Drammen, the tax bill says that this is not something they prioritise. Does the Council have any views on these issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e959	Norwegian legislation has a number of legal frameworks that when used, including: used in cooperation between departments, yields significant results. Among other things, we do. seen in the so-called restaurant actions that have been carried out, among others. Here in the capital. That's what I'm aiming for. It's just the transversal that's important. If that's how important agencies can be involved in this, and this can evolve further, there's a way I'm myself a fan of. We have seen good effects of this in the fight against unprofessional activities in a serious industry, i.e. in the tourism industry and in the restaurant industry. I take with me the representative's moments and encouragement in the further work that I am going to do with these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e969	I will be allowed to ask the Minister of Health the following questions: ‘The apothecary has been submitted with a new settlement agreement whereby copies of non-completed blueprints are to be taken, arranged in a specified order and sent to the social security office at each settlement date, twice per. months. Since it is necessary to copy both sides of this equation by approx. 7.5 million prescriptions, this means almost 15 million copies. It is estimated that this will cost approx. 150 million. kr. Will the Council of State stop this proposal, which seems pointless?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e978	I agree that today's solution of copying prescriptions that can be renewed is very resource-intensive and heavy for both pharmacies and the social security system. The social security scheme depends on the availability of sufficient evidence to demonstrate the concrete basis for each payment. This is evidence that is currently only available on the prescription. The blue prescription shows what the doctor prescribed and to what extent. Furthermore, the patient agrees with what has been received on the prescription. This information is not available from the data systems of pharmacies. The information produced in these computer systems is the information obtained on the aggregation. It contains forms in relation to what has been delivered, such as the name of the member, the date of delivery, the amount of delivery, the price and the prescriber. This information from the pharmacies computer system does not confirm the prescription of the doctor or the receipt of the medicinal product by the patient. Therefore, the insurance unit cannot verify the basis for the payments without a copy of the prescriptions of the blueprints being attached to the aggregations. The Court of Auditors has pointed out that the Rikstrygdeverket is making settlements without sufficient evidence of the requirements. It is therefore for the purposes of the requirements of the National Audit Office that the pharmacies are requested to attach the prescriptions to each bill sent to the Social Security Office. This implies that prescriptions which can be renewed and which the customer retains must be copied. Norway’s Apothekers Association and the Rikstrøgdeverket have had a dialogue on different solutions to collect sufficient evidence for each payment. After considering different alternatives, the Rikstrøgdeverket has found that copying the prescriptions is the best solution to provide sufficient evidence for the settlement. The solution where all new prescriptions must be copied is a temporary solution until electronic prescriptions are introduced. Where electronic settlements are attached to electronic prescriptions, there is a solution which can facilitate the collection of the necessary documentation and which is perceived as suitable both for pharmacies and for the social security system. I do not think this solution is satisfactory. The transition to the use of electronic prescriptions must therefore be a high priority task. I would like to discuss possible alternative solutions in the short term later today in a meeting with the Rikstrøgdeverket and how to ensure coordinated and good progress on what needs to be the future solution, namely electronic prescriptions. I want to closely monitor the functioning of the system of documentation of prescriptions, both for the social security system and for the pharmacies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e995	I would like to thank the Council of State for a far-reaching positive and satisfactory response. I understand that the Council of State cannot agree with me that it seems like a pointless proposal. I accept that. But I hope something comes out of the meeting that is announced later today. It is with respect to report poor use of pharmaceutical expertise and resources in the pharmacies that a large part of the working day will actually agree to copy. It is possible to train specialist copyists in healthcare and pharmacy, but there is at least no reasonable use of resources. My further question to the Minister of Health is: What kind of progress do you see in order to get a final answer to this question? We're going to go into a budget treatment here. So if these things can't be solved, then we have an opportunity to take this up and force a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1004	There are two important considerations that stand against each other. On the one hand, it is necessary for the social security system to have an adequate basis for checking payments. On the other hand, this system must be practical and be seen rationally both for the department itself and for the pharmacies. I note that a model has been drawn up here that does not clearly take account of these considerations in a balanced manner, and that is the basis for my dialogue with the Reichsrügdewerk. I don't think I want to say anything more about progress than that, in my view, it is important to achieve both a practical short-term solution and a continuation of what needs to be the future solution in this area, namely electronic prescriptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1009	Now, the Minister of Health knows the routines of the Rikstrøgdeverket better than the undersigned do, and so I have great faith that something can come out of it. I really hope that this matter can be resolved. The possibility of electronic prescriptions is pictured in a two- to three-year perspective. Then we can actually talk about a total sum of expenses for the pharmacies of almost 450 million. kr – if it takes three years, and the cost of 150 million. kr is correct. In this context, this will essentially be shifted to Norwegian patients in the form of increased proportions. Finally, I have a question for the Minister of Health. This will take a lot of time in the pharmacies. We know that per. There are already four out of ten pharmacies currently struggling financially. In this context, additional expenditure will be incurred. Does the Council agree with the signing that the use of pharmaceuticals for copying and submitting copies to the Rikstrygdenverket is not an appropriate way to use a limited resource?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1018	Let me first say that I don't like the numbers that the representative Nesvik is now referring to and multiplying. In that case, it reflects a very high price per person. copy – but I'll leave that. Nor can I benefit from his reasoning that such costs are automatically passed on to patients in the form of increased excesses. The ownership rates are determined as known by decisions in the budgetary process here in the house. But when that's said, I share the Nesvik representative's view that extensive copying tasks are hardly a very good use of pharmaceutical staff, which is a scarce resource in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1028	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The poultry industry in Norway reports that eggs are missing to cover Christmas demand. The industry has applied for a derogation from SNT to extend the shelf life marking by four days a week before Christmas, but it has been refused. Norwegian eggs are likely to have the best infectious status in the world and are free of salmonella. In the case of egg shortages, the alternative is imports from countries with significantly lower infectious status on eggs and poultry, with a higher risk to the consumer. What will the Council of State do to ensure Norwegian consumers safe eggs for Christmas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1037	I can enjoy the representative Gaundal and everyone else who must have been worried about the Christmas Bake, that it will be eggs for Christmas. The Ministry of Health has granted a derogation to extend the durability date of eggs – this to ensure adequate access to eggs for Christmas. The prolonged shelf-life will not pose an increased health risk to the population. The previous exemptions have been granted on condition that the egg industry establishes a utility capable of serving the increased demand at the Christmas and Easter holidays. A number of measures have been taken, but due to increased demand for eggs in 2003, they have not proved to be sufficient. The Ministry of Health has therefore found it appropriate, in the interests of consumers, to grant exemptions from the requirements on durability labelling. At the same time, the Ministry has stressed that industry cannot expect routine exemptions for the future and that it must therefore seek other ways of meeting increased demand, such as: through increased imports of eggs from safe importing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1046	I thank you for an excellent answer. I think it illustrates that it is possible to take reasonable political action. Now the industry agrees that they need to put in place a number of measures to try to increase egg production before Christmas. I know that, among other things, have said that chickens that should have been slaughtered are in production due to a lack of eggs. I am pleased that it is said that it is right in the interests of consumers to grant such a derogation. I also see that this could be about imports on later occasions, but then imports from countries that are safe from infection. Now it's actually just Sweden and Finland in our neighbourhood like for example. does not have salmonella. Experience shows that they have the same problem as us. But as I said, I think this was a very good and correct answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1053	The additional comment does not cause any new response from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1061	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘Head of Health Nord said to TV 2’s newscast at 5 p.m. Wednesday, November 12th, that political softness is a threat to the hospital reform, he further warned the Minister of Health against letting himself be torn by feelings, and he feared that political softness could overturn the whole hospital reform. Will the Council of State accept this kind of political statement from the Governor of Health Nord?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1070	The hospital reform facilitates national policy governance of specialist health services and health businesses. There can be no doubt about this. In the final round, the size will determine the content and arrangement of this control. We're going to be on guard against statements that can undermine this. On the other hand, the organisation of undertakings is a new system to be developed on the basis of the system of responsibilities and powers laid down by the new law. A central element in this context is the overall political management of hospitals, which should be combined with the establishment of a predictable operational framework for each health business. This is based on a view that this is the best way to ensure the active implementation of the objectives and frameworks set by mainstream policy bodies. I also want to add that the law's system allows the hospital owner to intervene in individual cases if these are significant, and then through the business meeting. There must be no understanding that any action taken in individual cases is contrary to the model. But I stress that whose scope and arrangement of such interventions threatens the ability of companies to plan their operations in a comprehensive and rational manner, are the key elements of the model threatened. It is important that all actors are involved in underpinning the governance required by the health business model from policy levels. However, it is also important that a new model that is now to be set up gives the acceptance for discussion of what will be good solutions, both from a patient perspective and on the basis of the service being under political direction. I have looked through the feature on the TV 2 news to which the representative Alvheim refers. Although the opinions of the Chairman of the Board of Directors have some background in a single matter in the public debate and must be seen in the light of the news broadcast on TV 2 on 12 November, they are also a general feature of a public debate. I therefore see the statements of the Chairman of Health Nord as a play in a system debate on responsibilities between the political level and the enterprises. I believe that we should have a liberalism in order to hold an active system debate, based on a common responsibility for the fact that content, form and possible connection to individual matters are not such that the role of the responsible political bodies in the business model is directly or indirectly undermined. In my practice, I have shown that I am not retreating to use this authority that Stortinget has given me.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1083	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I am not satisfied with. As head of businesses, the Minister for Health should make a response. I was really provoked by the statements of the director of Health Nord, where he stated that political softness is a threat to the hospital reform, and that he further allows himself to warn the Health Minister against letting himself be torn by feelings. I do not accept this kind of political interference from a director of a health company, nor should the Minister of Health. The Chairman of the Board of Health Nord must clearly have misunderstood his task when he states that hospitals should be exempted from political governance. If there is to be a common perception among the other directors of the regional health companies, they should find something else to do as soon as possible. I ask again, will the Minister of Health do something about the director of Health Nord?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1092	I have talked to the director of Health Nord about this feature, and I can assure the representative Alvheim that the director of Health Nord does not have the opinion that hospitals are exempted from political governance. I would also ask that when his statements are discussed, one distinguishes between what he himself said in direct speech during the interview and what was referred by reporters. For my part, regardless of what is said in the debate, I will not allow myself to be distracted by feelings about the hospital debate. I will manage the authority that Stortinget has given me, and I will try to control both with my head and my heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1100	I have also seen the interview, what he has said, and what is added, and I cannot find such mitigating circumstances as the Minister of Health does. As I said, and I repeat, I don't want to accept this, because it can, to those degrees, destroy the reform if we are to get the director on the track with criticism of his own owner. It cannot be accepted, and I still believe that this must not be accepted by the Minister of Health either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1105	I believe that the representative Alvheim and I then assess the content and intention of the Olav Helge Förde in this case, in a slightly different way, and I think that must be right. However, I agree with the representative Alvheim that there will clearly be a limit to what a chairman can face against the owner, in relation to continuing to have this task. I'll be aware of that for the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1113	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘It is noted with wonder that many network companies, at a time of sharp increase in electricity prices, are increasing network rentals at both fixed and energy levels. It seems very unfair today that the network companies are exploiting their monopoly situation to generate a large profit. What does the Council of State intend to do to ensure that consumers are protected against unfair pricing on network leases and will steps be taken to ensure public ownership of the network companies?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1122	Since this is a somewhat comprehensive issue in relation to the question-tretime, I ask the President's permission to go beyond the regulated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1127	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1130	I thank you for that. I would like to make it clear at the outset that the income of an energy company from the rental network is independent of the income from the sale of electricity. An energy company may not resume lost revenues on electricity sales on increased network leases. In each supply area, the local network company has a monopoly on transporting electricity to consumers. Norway's Watercourse and Energy Directorate regulates the revenues that network companies can receive and the network companies take in the income through the network lease paid by the individual customer. The income framework is based on historical costs and values for each company. Annually, the income on inflation, interest rates, market prices on power losses and initial investment costs are adjusted. The framework is reduced annually by an efficiency requirement. When the amount of electricity transported is reduced, the income of the network company will fall because part of the network lease depends on consumption. The NVE allows network operators to increase the rates of network rental so that revenues do not fall too far below the income allowed by the NVE regulation. Network companies may thus increase network rentals during periods of temporary low consumption. This is mainly the reason for the adjustment in network rental rates. However, the NVE has required network companies to reduce network rentals if revenue increases over time beyond the permitted framework, for example: due to a temporarily higher consumption. Networks shall try to keep network leases as stable as possible. In 1997, the current regulatory regime based on income frameworks was introduced. NVE regulation of the transmission system companies provides incentives for efficient operation. According to the NVE, a number of network companies have opted for total revenues lower than the income framework has permitted. In recent years, companies, regardless of ownership, have focused more on efficient resource use. This may be the main reason why the network has increased in recent years. Regardless of whether the network rental is increased or reduced, it will always be worthwhile for the individual consumer to reduce consumption so that the total cost of electricity is reduced. One will save on the costs of purchasing power and the costs of renting the network. A consumer who saves will have lower costs of renting the network than one who does not save. A generally lower consumption will contribute to a lower rate of network rental in the longer term. However, I would also like to refer to St.meld. No 41 for 2002-2003, on tariff for transmission of electricity and bi-directional communications, such as: discusses the principles of robust and simple network rental. A network lease model that provides a higher proportion of network costs could increase the stability and robustness of the revenues and costs of the transmission system companies and customers towards changes in consumption. However, such a model would have undesirable effects. For example, a network lease with a high fixed framework would provide customers using alternative sources of heating, customers with smaller dwellings, and customers with relatively low energy consumption. However, a grid lease model where energy links more closely reflect marginal losses meets the main objective of network lease fixing, which is the efficient use and development of the network. I think it is very understandable that many people react to this year's increase in network rental by many network companies, in relation to the high power prices we experienced last winter. And the timing of the increase in web rentals also doesn't always seem to be equally well-chosen. At the same time, I understand that the network companies want over time to take the revenues to which the regulation gives access. This results, among other things, in: improving the basis for implementing the necessary network investments over the years to come, thereby ensuring the proper operation of the network. However, I expect the network companies and owners to have an overall perspective, for example: to create confidence in customers when they define their network lease strategy. In the summer of 2002, the Ministry of Economic Affairs asked the NVE to carry out preliminary and technical analysis of models for the regulation of network activities. This is part of the process of setting the regulatory regime to apply from 2007. The NVE shall submit its proposal for model 1 March next year. In the light of the criticism of the current design of the network tariff, I will consider changes that can provide consumers with a sufficiently robust and stable network rental that also motivates efficient energy use. With regard to the last part of the question, which goes on public ownership, I would point out that the regulation of the network companies will be the same, regardless of public or private ownership. The most important part of the network in Norway is in public ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1156	I have a follow-up question for the minister. The dividend requirement for State power is increased, and it has to be paid by the common man and woman. Is this in line with the policies of the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1163	With regard to the dividend requirement for State Power, it is in line with the important consideration that State Power must have the necessary means to be both a secure power supply and, in the case of the network lease, where Statkraft also has ownership, to be able to maintain the network so that it has a stable power supply. We believe that the budget that State power has is sufficient to take account of these fundamental considerations and circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1168	That's not what we were told by Statkraft's husband on TV, but let it rest now. It gives legitimacy to the other power companies to increase network rental, and I'm not so sure that the entire amount is used to maintain the lines. Can the Council of State confirm or deny that the increase in network rental also gives legitimacy to the other companies, which are not in Statkraft?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1175	I would first like to make it clear that when it comes to the regulation of the network rental, the NVE determines the income framework. It is determined in relation to efficiency requirements and also with regard to the need for network operators to maintain the network in such a way that we have a secure and robust energy supply and that the energy reaches its destination. In the case of increased dividends, it is a relationship that will have to be regulated in relation to the income of the company. Once again, the monopoly company has to deal with the regulation of the NVE, and I believe that this is being implemented in a proper way. It is also the case that there are provisions for irregularities in network transport which penalise companies that do not properly maintain the network. The so-called KILE principle is therefore an important part of the conversion of network tariffs, which we received at the beginning of the 1990s.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1186	I will ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘According to an NTB message following the State harvest conference, the Minister for Oil and Energy will have said that he will ‘press the power suppliers to lower prices in the coming winter’. In the year that passed, however, we heard from the Government and government parties that the free power market, with a price reflecting supply and demand, provided important incentives to reduce power consumption and thus prevent rationalization. How does the 2004 anti-ration strategy of the Council relate to the 2003 strategy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1195	In my lecture at Statnett’s Winter Conference I have not said that I will ‘press the power suppliers to lower prices in the coming winter’. I am even a little surprised at this question, as I think I remember that the representative, Mr. Vaksdal, was actually present at the harvest conference and heard what I said in my lecture. In the NTB message to which this is clearly referred, this statement is also not attributed to me as a direct quote. In the power market, prices have an important role to play in balancing current output and consumption. Such was it last winter, and so it will also be coming winter. The high prices last autumn and winter led to an increase in production and a decrease in consumption in the strenuous situation that we had in the Nordic power market last winter. It was important for security of supply. Another thing is that the price statements became unacceptable. This is due, inter alia, to: an excessive dependence on hydropower, a lack of flexibility on the consumption side and an excessive transfer capacity towards the rest of the world. The government will draw up a long-term strategy to reduce our vulnerability to perceived variations. I refer to the fact that we aim to provide a big message about security of supply before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1204	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which confirms to this extent what I thought, that the market argument is used when it is appropriate, and that it is deleted when it is not appropriate. We must constantly focus on measures to keep electricity prices in check. The main measure to achieve this is, of course, to strengthen the supply side of the market through increased power generation. I registered that the Council of State in the evening post a few days before the municipal elections took self-criticism for the lack of follow-up to the offer page. When can we expect concrete measures or proposals from the Government to strike a balance between supply and demand and thereby lower prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1213	I agree that one of the most important measures is to increase the production of energy. But there is also another element that is equally important, namely increasing the independence of hydropower, i.e. reducing dependence, in order to create a more robust system, especially in relation to dry years. The government has already started this work. Over the two years I have been Minister of Energy, there have been concessions to twice as many GWh as the government in the 1990s received. It is therefore not the impression that the Progress Party is trying to create, namely that this government is not doing anything for security of supply. In addition, this government has made a record of generating new renewable energy sources. In particular, wind power and waterborne heat. Otherwise, I refer to my first response, where it refers to the security of supply message, where we will further address measures that will improve security of supply, thereby creating a better balance in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1220	I thank the Council again for the answer. The electricity prices are now many places already higher than they were last year at this time, and the level of filling in our warehouses is low. Nevertheless, a mild and rainy harvest has saved us from the supply crisis. Unfortunately, it looks as if the government is still going to bet unilaterally on the weather gods. Will the Government this year consider launching mobile gas plants if the situation deteriorates, or do you have other immediate measures that can be taken if there is a crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1229	With regard to the situation this fall, I refer to what the NVE has said in its press release. I also recommend that it be read by the representative of Vaksdal, where the director said that he felt there was no cause for concern. We're still going to have high power prices, but hopefully we're going to avoid the strong price increases we got last year. In the case of short-term measures, if necessary, and in the event of the weather situation developing as unfavourable as the representative of Waksdal fears, the Government also has measures to remedy such a situation. Among other things, increased reserve capacity may be relevant. I want to be positive, among other things. to mobile gas plants, as I was also last year. But then it ran on the fact that the applicant for a concession still did not implement measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1239	This question, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who will address the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1242	The question has been asked to the Minister for Education and Research. I notice with some wonder that there is another Council of State to answer. The Minister of Education and Research answered in detail a question about this scheme on 13 March 2002, but I am well pleased that there is at least one Council of State that will respond. ‘The 2002 State Budget launched a programme with a framework of 15 billion. DKK over eight years for the upgrading of school buildings. The loans shall be interest-free and the scheme shall also include a five-year discharge. At the start-up stage, several teams underlined the need for legislative and regulatory changes to ensure that the system is functioning properly. What has the Council of State done to ensure that access to the right to deduct for five years results in municipalities actually being able to dispose of deferred instalments for other measures during the period of deduction?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1251	Now there's one government. The question is addressed to the Minister of Education and Research, but it is such that this scheme is managed by two departments in cooperation, both the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The budget line itself is in the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, with the interest compensation managed by the House Bank. Since the issue also concerns the municipal law, it has been assessed, in cooperation with the two departments, that it is correct and correct that it is the municipal and regional minister who answers the question. In order to stimulate the municipal sector to provide better care in school buildings, a grant scheme is in place, in which the State provides compensation for interest expenditure on the admission of loans to new buildings and rehabilitation. Interest compensation will be granted for borrowing within a framework of DKK 15 billion over a period of eight years. For the period 2002–04, interest compensation has been provided for borrowings totalling DKK 8 billion. This includes the increase in the 2004 budget agreed between the government parties and the Workers' Party. I would like to stress that the scheme is a grant scheme, not a loan scheme. Municipalities may receive grants for the financing of upgrading or new construction of schools regardless of whether loans have been raised. If the municipalities raise a loan, they are free to choose a loan institution. Municipalities must comply with the provisions of Section 50 of the Municipal Law on the repayment of loans. Its name is, among other things, the total loan debt of municipalities shall be deducted by equal annual instalments. Local government loans to school buildings must be deducted in line with the requirements of the law. However, the requirement to deduct loan debts with equal annual instalments is linked to the total loan debt. In relation to individual loans, municipalities will normally have a high degree of freedom in relation to the issue of the freedom to deduct. Technically, the interest compensation is calculated on the basis of a series loan in the Husbanken with a maturity of 20 years, floating interest rates and five years’ freedom to pay. This means that the municipalities receive interest compensation as if they had had been free for five years. By this calculation, municipalities receive a slightly higher interest compensation than they would have received if the interest compensation was calculated on the basis of equal annual instalments over the entire duration of the loan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1267	I thank you for your answer. The question arises on the basis of a budgetary hearing of the Education Committee on 5 November in which representatives from the KS system were present. They reiterated what they said when establishing the scheme, namely that the legislation does not allow liquidity to be released from the access to the discharge to which the scheme is subject. I refer to circular F-49-01, which is the only available information on the financing scheme with interest compensation for school facilities, and where it specifically mentions five years of discharge. What KS presents as a problem is that even if, under this scheme, you have a technical right to deduct, you do not get the financial effect of not paying the deductions, which you get in other contexts when loans are non-deductible. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the municipalities that use loan access under this scheme actually receive a liquidity release in the five years they do not pay off?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1278	I would like to stress that the scheme of grants has been created, not least deals with issues relating to which borrowers the scheme will apply. This means that there is no loan arrangement in the House Bank where everyone who is going to participate in this is forced to go to a public loan institution to obtain a redemption loan and an interest subsidy. It is also the case that it was important to develop this scheme, that the municipalities which have had the possibility of self-financing and who chose it should also receive part of the grant and the subsidy which is inherent in the interest rate subsidy, even if they have not been forced to do so, but have chosen to raise a loan in order to finance it because of their own financial situation. So it's like we've made a choice. This means that, within the overall framework of the loan portfolio, there will be a full opportunity to choose not to go into loan schemes where there is a free payment for the local government sector, and therefore to relieve its borrowing. However, it is not possible in relation to the municipal law not to prescribe the total repayment of their loans. I don't think we can see this scheme completely independently of how the municipal law is designed, and the liquidity situation described here will be very different from the municipality to the municipality. Some municipalities are also under the supervision of the county, which means that they will not be allowed to raise any further loans, precisely because their economy does not tolerate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1285	I thank you again for the answer. The last one is just a reminder that there are several issues related to this scheme that make municipalities with difficult finances, and even with the economy under the supervision of the county council, have even greater problems in benefiting from the scheme than the municipalities with similar orders of a tight economy have. But I repeat that in what is available of information about the interest-rate compensation scheme, it is referred to as a loan scheme and as a non-deductibility scheme. As we have seen, after the recordings and statements of the KS, it is the way municipalities perceive it when they consider whether to make use of this scheme or not, that both interest compensation and amortization are granted. The last question is whether or not to initiate a clarification round with the Local Governments' Central Associations, so that it can be clarified whether or not the right to deduct is effective and how it will work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1294	I would like to take a clarification round with the Municipalities' Central Association. This is a question that naturally will be heard at home in the constellations that we have with the Communes' Central Association. It has not been addressed by the Municipal Councils' Central Association in the four annual meetings that we have on a broad front in the Government, with questions and issues related to local economy and other regulations. It is also the case that the regulation and the grant schemes established have been consulted. The Central Association of Municipalities has also been the consultative body for this. I would like to stress that in my opinion, it is no use for us to force all of these loan arrangements into a loan arrangement in the Husbanken, in the Municipal Bank or elsewhere where we can manage a clean loan arrangement. It would be unfair for municipalities that have chosen to absorb equity in this government. I think it also meant that we had to have a round with ESA, because it would automatically limit who could offer loans. That's why we've chosen the simplest model, that's a grant scheme, which also takes into account that you get interest compensation for more than the actual interest rate. You get interest compensation as if there was a right of deduction in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1305	This question, from the representative Johnny Hult to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, is raised by Per Roar Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1308	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Narrow roads and high traffic, among other things, mean that enterprises in Hedmark have the highest transport costs in the country. Some big companies are threatening to fly out. Does the Council see this problem, and how will he be able to reduce these costs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1317	The competitiveness of industry is crucial for the value creation of the country, and the level of costs is an important element in this context. Transport costs are part of that picture. I would like to begin by pointing out that the Government has succeeded in facilitating positive development and strengthening competitiveness through a wide range of measures. A responsible economic policy with a subsequent low interest rate and a crown price that is favourable to competitiveness, we have succeeded. In the transport sector, a well-functioning main road network is a prerequisite for business and housing in most parts of the country. I am, of course, concerned with maintaining and developing industrial workplaces, and I see clearly that a well-functioning infrastructure is a central element in such a connection. I would therefore like to show that the appropriations for the road sector have increased by 800 million. NOK and above 400 million. kr to the railway sector in the State budget for next year. For the road sector, an increased investment budget means that next year work can be started on a number of new projects both on the road network and on other national roads. Many of these new projects are removing bottlenecks that are currently reducing the availability of industry on the road network, especially in the districts. In the case of Hedmark County in concrete terms, as requested, I would like to point out that Akershus, Oppland and Hedmark County Municipalitys have developed the ‘Scope Plan for the Gardermoen – Mjøsbyene Transport Corridor’, which has been sent to the Ministry of Environmental Protection for Treatment. This refers to an extension of E6 between Gardermoen and Lillehammer, together with, among others. a further extension of the railway in the same area. In addition, I would like to stress that through the planned expansion of Rv 2 between Klöfta and Kongsvinger, as well as the opening of Rv 35 between Lunner and Gardermoen, we will have an important and good cross-link across the East towards the border of Magnor, a cross-link that has been involved not least in the business community. In the context of the work of the transport network on the national transport plan 2006-2015, the Directorate-General for Road Transport has estimated the need for upgrading the main road network to a usable standard of a size of DKK 120 billion. In addition, there are major needs for the rest of the national road network. This means that it is a major challenge to give priority to the different needs of the road network, also in relation to the other transport sector. The Government will come back to this in the context of the National Transport Plan Report, which will be presented by the Government to the Minister of Transport in spring 2004. In that process, of course, the business community is engaged, including the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and we naturally place considerable emphasis on the input and wishes we get from the Norwegian business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1334	I thank the Council of State for a full answer. Inland is a region with a large product-producing industry, among others. the workshop industry, the food industry and the Tremechanical industry, and that it is a region with very large travel activities. All these industries are highly dependent on efficient transport solutions to ensure further development. You can see, for example: in Hedmark at 10 pst. the cost of producing something goes to transport, while the average in Europe is 3pst, and the national average is between 4 and 6pst. Does the Council of State see that it may be somewhat more problematic to maintain and further develop the jobs we have in the districts, in this case Hedmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1343	Yes, I see that very well. I am fully aware that Norwegian industry in general and Norwegian industry has a remote disadvantage, and that the Norwegian export industry has a particular disadvantage in that Norway is a country that is a little outside the more central areas, even though it is temporarily showing off from Norway, perhaps. It is also quite right, as the representative says, that we have an average transport cost above twice the average in Europe. That's one of the challenges we have. In addition, our non-competitive business in the districts has a remote disadvantage because much of the market is located in the East, in the Oslofjord area. This means that both the export industry and the sheltered industry face this challenge. It takes the government seriously. There's also some basis for us to increase the funding for this. We have further strengthened it in the next year's budget, but according to the plan the Storting has previously adopted, it's quite obvious that it's still a bit to go, but we're going our way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1350	Today's Business of 21 October this year we can read an article about Finnish Moelven Industries. In fact, they are threatening to bring with them the ready-made house production and move if there are no better roads. So important is the transport that Borgström, who is the group leader, says that ‘road is one of the most important framework conditions for Moelven’. Moelven isn't exactly the world's most wasted place either, but nevertheless, one of the most important conditions for the company to remain there is. When the Council of State is travelling, I believe that transportation is one of the most frequent issues in conversations with those he visits. At least it has been on all the company visits I have been. Traffic is a theme that goes on and on again. Of course, it's also other themes, but it's all about transportation. Does the Council of State see that when such a large group manager speaks out, it is a matter of gravity?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1359	I'm completely familiar with the commitment to Moelven in this area, an commitment that not only Moelven has, but that is well on the way for most of the Norwegian industry. Now it is the case that in a Question Time, not all the world of people sit and follow the debate, but I record that on my right side there is the National Council of Forestsholm, who is responsible for transportation, so it is a rather important belonging we have just in this exchange of words. Let me say so that I believe that the needs of business in the transport plan that will be developed are well-reflected. After all, the national transport plan is designed for those who benefit from the transport corridors, and there is the availability of individuals and the accessibility of goods and services produced by Norwegian industry. Of course, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has a special role to play in securing the latest, a role that we will also have in the presentation of the National Transport Plan by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1371	I have the following questions for the country's Minister for Transport: ‘The E18 bombing stations in East Agder are running short from midnight to five o’clock in the morning. According to NRK Sørlanden, it only passes around 20 cars on average per hour. hour during this period. In St. prp. [[2000-2001]] No 30 for the development of parts of E18 in East Agder, toll stations which charge tolls all day. It seems pointless to collect tolls during the periods of day-to-day operation with a deficit. Is the Council against free bombing at night at the E18 in East Agder?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1380	The toll facility at E18 in East Agder consists of two toll stations, Svennevig and Østerholtheia. According to the figures provided by the Road Directorate, there are, on average, 70–75 passages per toll company. hour during the period midnight to midnight 05.00 in the morning in these two stations. The average price per person. The passage was approximately 16 dollars in 2002. Income on E18 in East Agder from midnight to midnight 05.00 is approx. NOK 1 100 per year. This is an hour, while the manning cost is approx. 300 kroner per month. Hourly/hourly toll station, i.e. the operation does not lead to a deficit. In order to achieve the income target adopted by local authorities and the Stortingen, it has been suggested that money is also required at night. The Ministry of Transport therefore does not consider it appropriate to recommend changes to the adopted payment plan for E18 in East Agder.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1387	I thank you for the answer, which is not in line with the information I have on financial night time, between noon. 10 a.m. and 8 p.m. 5:00 a.m. In Kristiansand, in fact, there is free bombing at night, and there are far more cars passing, than in East Agder. In the landfill protocol, it is stated that toll stations are provided for toll stations that charge 24 hours a day. However, I would like to ask: if this is the case, can you decide locally whether it would be free nighttime bombing if it would show that the economy is not so good at this time of the day, or does what is in the staging proposition put an end to it? Can the Council of State give a clear answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1394	If there are major changes in the assumptions of the tolling installation, there must be opportunities to reconsider them. It is necessary for the road authorities to examine and assess the extent to which there is a need for re-presenting the Storting or whether it can be done within the existing guidelines and the agreement already concluded. It is such that it is not necessary for the Storting to go into the details of how to design such a system, but there are guidelines on how to do so. In this case, it will depend on the extent to which the size has given rise to the specific design. But that's all reason why we're going to use common sense and make sure that we have sensible toll solutions everywhere we have toll facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1401	I thank you once again for the answer that I am not going to get quite wise. Is it so to understand that the landfilling proposal for partial toll financing of E18 in East Agder is an obstacle, or is it not an obstacle, to local decision that cars can pass free of charge at night? I'm a little curious about the calculation to which the Council of State refers. Other calculations show that here it's not costable to collect tolls at night. Then I think about the boom that's between Grimstad and Kristiansand. Perhaps the Council of State has also included the tree that is east of the county, between Telemark and Gjerstad in East Agder. But the point is, in relation to what's in the staging proposition about manning and about charging all day, can you decide locally whether it's free to pass the bombs without compromising the staging proposition? That is what you have today in Kristiansand on E18.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1410	There are several places you have free access at night. Then it has been for various reasons that you have assessed it to that point that you wanted to do it this way. We've got that on Jären, too. There are assessments that need to be made when presenting a proposal. I don't know about relationships here that are different from what I've been informed by the Road Directorate. That's why I don't have any reason to say if there's any opportunity to change this right here and now. I really feel the question as if I can give a stamp of approval so that you can change this locally now. I can't do that here. I have no information other than that provided by the Road Directorate, which says that it is profitable to have manned toll stations at night.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1421	‘In response to those in the ordinary Question Time of 15 January 2003, the Council of State said: ‘My objective is that before the next winter season, Oslo and the State should agree on a contingency package which can be implemented next time such an acute pollution situation occurs, so that we do not restart the analysis from the beginning.’ Is the emergency air pollution emergency package complete and what immediate action shall be taken when the first days of dangerous health air pollution occur?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1428	People in Oslo are exposed to high local air pollution. In addition to the few, extremely high individual episodes, there are many episodes where the limit values in the new air quality regulation are exceeded for both NO2 and particulate matter. I think this is very serious. I would therefore like to stress that the main challenge in Oslo is to identify sustainable measures that will reduce air pollution throughout the winter season, for example. reduced use of peak tyres. In January of this year, I asked the Swedish Road Administration, in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, to assess measures and instruments that can reduce emissions from road traffic, both long-term measures and a ‘emergency plan’ with immediate action that can be put into action from the next winter season, into which we are now on our way, just as the representative Sørensen refers to in his question. As the responsible pollution authority, the Municipality of Oslo has the primary responsibility for coordinating monitoring and necessary measures against local air pollution. Since road traffic is a significant contributor to local air pollution, the State Road Administration must also take an active part in this work. In this context, I would like to point out that this winter the State Road Administration will introduce a test scheme with a reduced winter speed limit in Oslo, and that a separate emergency response group will now be set up to provide more effective warning of local air pollution. In parallel with the work in Oslo, the State Road Administration uses considerable resources in the ‘Better Urban Air’ project, among others. for testing new measures such as salting with magnesium chloride to bind road dust. After removal of the peak tyre charge, the proportion of heavy tyres in Oslo has increased, and during the last year high concentrations of particulate matter have been measured in Oslo. Reintroducing the tipping tyre fee will be a very effective measure to reduce the wear and tear of hazardous particulate matter. The Swedish Road Administration and the Ministry of Transport have clearly recommended this, but the Municipality of Oslo has not wanted to reintroduce the fee before this winter season. I am aware that a working group set up on the initiative of the State Road Administration and led by the Municipality of Oslo will shortly present a report on the organisation of work on an action study on acutely high air pollution in Oslo. The work is planned to be managed by the Municipality of Oslo as a pollution authority and will be completed by the next summer. I believe that the Municipality of Oslo and the State have a common responsibility to ensure that we are better equipped to limit pollution already this winter, which I also made clear in my contact with the Municipality of Oslo and the Road Administration of the State in January. I therefore see it as very unfortunate that this process has not come any more. I have therefore called the Municipality of Oslo and the State Road Administration to a meeting to discuss the possibility of speeding up and intensifying work on measures to combat local air pollution. Here I would like to address in particular what measures can be taken already in winter. From state measures, I see more possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1454	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State confirms what I fear, that we will again experience that the State and the Municipality of Oslo are unable to agree on a package of measures to be implemented on those days when air pollution is at its worst. I agree with the Council of State that there should have been a heavy-duty tyre charge in Oslo. That has been proposed by Oslo SV in the budget they are now dealing with. I also agree with the heart that it is the total level of air pollution in Oslo that has to go down. Nevertheless, we have a responsibility now when we will soon experience the most difficult season, the most difficult days when the air is directly hazardous to health, and asthmatics have to hold back, and children are kept at home or cannot go out into kindergarten because they do not tolerate the air. I am happy if the Council of State can guarantee that, at least before Christmas, we will have such an emergency package in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1463	In this work, which I was very concerned about last year, when we started a work both from the Vegvesen side and in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, I should have liked to have seen that we had come further than we have this year. I therefore think the question from the representative Sørensen is a good reminder, along with what we now see in the newspapers every day, that air pollution is getting high here a few days. We also see this in other cities. In particular, I will draw Trondheim out. I would also like to stress that it is important to try to find out about emergency measures. But we also have to find long-term solutions, because this problem appears every winter. We know that, and we have to do something to find sustainable solutions, so we might not be able to look for emergency measures because we haven't done what we could otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1470	In one area, I think progress has been made, and that is the warning made when the worst air occurs. The announcement today is not good at all. The alarm today says that in the rush hour we will experience a lot of air pollution. It won't be like on the extreme days, but in the rush hour this afternoon we will have a situation that will cause many to be plagued by the poor air. Finally, I would like to challenge the Council of State to say a little about the measures discussed in the emergency package that I hope we will see before Christmas, and would remind you that January is perhaps the most difficult month in terms of acute air pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1477	We already see that there are problematic conditions that are not difficult to predict. Conditions may vary. We can experience a November and December this year that gets worse than what we normally experience. In my review of State measures, I have specifically mentioned, for example: increased use of salting, which in Oslo has shown one result and in Trondheim another. So it's not given that a measure will give the same result in different cities. We have to be open to that, and we have to look at that. This winter we will have an experiment with a reduced speed limit. It can produce results, and that's something we might want to consider using on a more permanent basis than just on an acute day, because it will have effects. I also want the municipality of Oslo's assessments of using other tools on days with particularly high pollution, for example. time-limited restrictions on street parking and measures taken by the Municipality of Oslo in the past, such as: a ban on driving on individual road sections and/or cheaper collective services on such days. Then I'd like to ask Oslo to clarify their views on reintroducing the heavy duty tyre charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1491	I have a question for the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, which I hope the Council of State will answer: ‘Many asylum seekers stay in Norway for many years without finally having their application for asylum decided on a humanitarian basis. Others are refused, but have no country to go home. Negative decisions and broadcasting may take a long time. Someone gets temporary jobs while waiting for them to decide or send out, others don't. What criterion underpins the granting/rejection of temporary job opportunities for people in such situations?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1500	In 1999, it was opened for asylum seekers to obtain a temporary work permit after the asylum interview if there was no doubt about the identity or it was appropriate to expel him. The employment permit is temporary and is valid until the asylum application is settled. The purpose of allowing asylum seekers to work while waiting for answers to their asylum application is to give them the opportunity to be self-held. It will benefit any return or integration into Norwegian society. When a person is refused permission to stay in Norway, for example: upon rejection of an application for asylum, he/she is obliged to leave the country on a voluntary basis. If he/she does not do so, the police shall, if necessary, execute him/her by coercion. In some cases, however, foreigners remain in the country despite being refused permission to stay here. Such foreigners may also be granted a temporary work permit pending the possibility of repatriation. It is a condition that the non-resident applies for this and that the negative decision cannot be implemented at the moment. Some foreigners are entitled to a temporary work permit until the negative decision can be implemented. This applies to non-residents who had a valid permit at the time of the rejection. In order for such a right to exist, it is a prerequisite that the stranger himself is not responsible for the non-implementation of the refusal, for example by refusing to contribute to the provision of travel documents. It is important to note that a temporary work permit is lost as soon as it is possible to initiate the decision. Although a temporary work permit has been granted for a specified period of time, e.g.: six months, the authorisation shall lapse immediately upon the date of entry into force of the decision. The practice is that persons with a final refusal to apply for asylum are not granted a temporary work permit if they are able to return home. This applies even if it is not possible for Norwegian authorities to transport them to their home country. This practice is based on a desire to give a clear signal that when voluntary returns are possible, this should be chosen. For Iraqis, this means that they are not granted a temporary work permit after a final refusal to apply for asylum, unless they have previously had a temporary authorisation without the right to family reunification, a so-called MUF permit. If there is a specific job offer, they will receive a temporary work permit valid for six months or until return to Iraq can be completed. The extension of this temporary work permit depends on the applicants signing up to the return programme for Iraqi citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1511	I thank the Council of State for your answer. It's pretty complicated to comment on this on the kick, but my question had two elements in it. One thing is that it takes a long time. The person I have been away from, who has been in a reception in Norway for the longest time, is now in the eleventh year. So it takes a long time to get answers to applications and any anchors, or maybe a lot of anchors. When a decision is made, it will also take a long time for one to be sent out. Even if you are given a break, it will often take a long time to be outsourced to a municipality. I agree with the Council of State that it makes sense that people are working when they're here anyway. What the Council of State did not say so much about is that there are some countries that do not accept people who have our refugees, for example. from Ethiopia. It also applies to some Palestinians, i.e. those who do not have a country to go home to. Would it not have been reasonable that they could also work when they are still here year after year?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1520	Asylum policy is full of difficult choices to make, and one of the most important choices is that we do not add incentives or incentives to prevent people from implementing the decisions taken by the Norwegian authorities through their own activities, for example. on dispatch. It is true that there will be some people – there are not so many who cannot go back to their home country, among others. because they are stateless – which, under current legislation, will have relatively easy access to a temporary work permit, provided that their identity is known. However, we do not grant work permits to people we do not know who is, among other things. for safety reasons. As for those who could, if they had voluntarily chosen it, travel to their own country of origin, I certainly believe that there would be a completely wrong signal at a time when Norway is number two at the top per capita in the reception of asylum seekers, saying that one can prevent one's own return by not voluntarily leaving the country, and motivate them to do so by granting temporary work permits.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1525	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I'm totally saying that people shouldn't be able to speculate about staying here any longer than they're supposed to. But what's the problem is when someone's here after rejection or appeal no. x in year after year and yet not working, nor are they transported out. I'm not going to comfort the Council of State with concrete examples, but I was a week at the Dale asylum reception this summer. There I met a Syrian Kurd, an orthopedic, who had been in Norway for five to six years. The woman had been here a little shorter. They came through Germany, and they would probably be sent out again. I have no idea. The only thing I have any idea is that when he had been offered a job as an infirmary and was able to feed himself, his wife and four children with a temporary admission as a nurse, while trying to validate his speciality here in a field we need people, it seems to me that he is not allowed to work when he is not sent out anyway, either to a transit country or to his original country of origin.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1534	In the case of persons who can voluntarily go home if they themselves go to their country's embassy and receive travel documents, but where we do not have the opportunity to send them out by force, I strongly warn against the idea of starting to encourage them to stay in the country by granting them temporary work permits. We have a problem because Norway is perceived to have much more favourable conditions for stay than other countries. One of the things that does that is that we've got a tradition for people to be sent out of the police. In most other European countries, people are not transported by force. They are being denied permission and told to leave the country. And from 1 January we will not offer to people who do not travel on a voluntary basis, for example. in the case of Norwegian asylum recipients. This is because all these small drops that may seem reasonable in a single case give the overall signal that in Norway it is only a matter of hanging on and staying for as long as you can, and finally you get some kind of authorisation. We can't have it like that anymore. This is essential for us not to get an influx of several groundless asylum seekers and people who stay here because someone tells them it's going to work; if you just stay here long enough, you get a chance to stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1544	‘Oslo and Akershus now experience the country’s highest growth rate in unemployment, lack of funding for major transport projects, relocation of state jobs, uncertainty associated with adopted hospital plans and poorer business framework conditions than many other parts of the country. Does the Government’s policy mean that the Capital Region will be the necessary engine for national development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1551	I agree that the large growth in unemployment in Oslo and Akershus in recent years is a problem. Not least, it is a problem for those who become unemployed. Statistics from Aetat show that the unemployment rate in Akershus in October this year was around 2.9 pst. and in Oslo, at 5 p.m., at a national average of 3.8 p.m. So there's a difference between the two counties in unemployment rate. Fortunately, these figures are a little lower now than they were in August this year, and are likely to show a trend towards flattening growth in unemployment. In recent years we have experienced a downturn in several industries in Norway. This applies both to industries that are typical of central struts, such as the ICT industry, but also to more traditional industries in other parts of the country. As Oslo and Akershus have head offices for many businesses in other parts of the country, this region will also note the problems that arise in other regions. Because of the problems in business in recent years, the government has placed great emphasis on pursuing policies that provide better framework conditions for business, by reducing the high interest rate and lowering the dollar rate. We now have a long way to go, and therefore we have a good basis for new growth in business both in the capital region and in the rest of the country. In fact, a key prerequisite for doing so is to hold back public budgets and not use more of the oil revenues. I would argue that the Capital Region is well equipped for the future, both in terms of industrial development and employment in the region, and in terms of the role of engine for national development. In key areas it is only in this region that we find excellence in research and innovation and in specialised service provision. This region also has a broad scope in the labour market and thus competence in the workforce with the possibility of conversion that is completely unique in the Norwegian context. In this region, we also find plenty of access to capital for exciting projects. This is something we need to be able to exploit more positively. At the same time, we need to avoid too much concentration in the capital area. This region also benefits from the growth of other parts of the country in business and housing. The relocation of state activities can be one contribution to strengthening the labour market in other urban areas with growth potential in the relevant areas. The majority now has the opportunity to discuss the government's overall policy towards the big cities, in the context of the treatment of the big city announcement. In this Communication, the Government has submitted proposals for, inter alia: better coordination of state policies towards major cities, increasing the capacity of cities to take advantage of their opportunities, transferring more power and power to major cities, and investigating changes in the income system, such as: takes into account the specific challenges of cities. This last question, too, is now at the heart of a concrete decision in Stortinget. I hope the representative, Mr Höglund, will help to ensure that there is a positive outcome for, among other things. the capital and the capital area, and that one does not once again choose to capitulate and say that one should not take into account the major urban interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1564	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The last call is for this representative to be taken with him to the greatest extent possible. I'll comment a little bit on the numbers. It is true that unemployment in Akershus is not very high, but it is increasing as rapidly as possible, and it is worrying. It is a broad range and competence of business and employees in our region. The question is whether this is still there despite rather than because of the government's policy. I am aware that many of the issues raised in the question are not within the Council of State's field of work, but from the Regional Minister I want to confirm that it is a goal for the Government to have a thriving metropolitan region, which I believe is important for the whole country. It's not just about the population and business in this part, but it's about – as I write on the question – being an engine for the rest of Norway. And can she confirm that what some others seem to want, namely, to strangle Oslo and Akershus for the benefit of the districts and believe that it is good district policy, is it not government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1571	I agree that both the capital and the other major cities are, in fact, an important engine in relation to regional development and development in the country in general. It is true that we have strong environments of competence that affect the development of the country also outside the Oslo area. We have cities with competence, not least on the research and labour market side, which are internationally recognised and which contribute to the future development potential of key export industries in Norway. One of the main points in our city announcement has just been to put the spotlight on the relationship between the development of cities that is good, both in solving traffic problems and in solving social problems, and to use what can also actually be a priority, and which is a priority in very many other countries, the ethnic composition as an engine for a greater degree of innovation, which can be a special feature for the capital Oslo – all in the context of getting the growth rate in Norway up overall. But there is one important role that one must have as the basis of state authority in any case, and that is that we must keep the framework conditions in order for those who are to be the main actors. It concerns business, the price of the crown, the interest rate and the growth of the public sector, which must be adapted to competitive business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1578	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Some of the framework conditions are also the infrastructure and conditions experienced by enterprises and the population in the region. If the nature of the road network and public transport is such that they are unable to cope with the pressure there, we risk that jobs are almost forced to move out. Then it's not necessarily District Norway you move to, but maybe it's other countries and places. Competition in Europe is, of course, equally interregional today. E.g. in the Øresund region, in Dublin, in Germany and elsewhere, we know that we are very active. It's about total organization. Economic policy is one factor, but the other areas are also important. This is related. Stimulating good infrastructure is not necessarily a bad economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1585	I agree that stimulating good infrastructure is important for the functioning of the Oslo region, but not least it is a fact that many of the districts' competitive businesses actually also transport their goods through the region. I think it's important to have a view of large transport projects going on in Oslo. One of the important questions is whether you can relieve the centre of Oslo by, for example: to have other port facilities. The fjord town is an interesting and exciting vision for the people of Oslo, but there is also an interesting question in an infrastructure context about all the traffic loads going through the core areas of Oslo. I believe that we stand up for Oslo and Akershus, among others. through Oslopack 2. We're dealing with infrastructure resources otherwise, and we're going back to all of these questions when we're going to deal with the national transport plan. I fully agree that it is important to have a view that the traffic problems in Oslo must be resolved also in the interests of both business and districts elsewhere in the country. I think it's a wrong attitude when politicians choose to view this as two contradictions. In our country, we are very dependent on the fact that the capital also works.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1595	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: «Many researchers believe that magnetic activity on the sun affects the earth's climate, for example by affecting the shooting. A new research study provides a more precise calculation of sunspot history. Solar scientist Pål Breek believes several pieces of puzzle fall into place and shows that the theory of cosmic radiation and clouds has something to do with it. To what extent has the government focused on the research environment outside the UN Panel on Climate Change in the work of the Government on the climate issue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1604	The government continuously bases all relevant research-based knowledge on its assessments of the climate issue and on the design of its climate policy. There is also knowledge of the effect of the sun on global warming. At the same time, climate issues are complicated, and research has long been left before it can determine with great certainty how the climate can develop in the future. In such a situation, it is natural, and also necessary, for researchers to focus and interpret observations and data differently and to present different theories on climate issues. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change was set up to provide a common understanding of what is known, what is not known, and not least what is uncertain about climate. This should make it easier for politicians and the public to make up an opinion on the climate issue, and avoid excessive emphasis being placed on the output of individual researchers. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change brings together all relevant knowledge produced by thousands of researchers around the world working on climate issues based on different theories. It is not that the climate panel has failed to assess the sun as a possible cause of climate change. On the contrary, increased radiation from the sun as a result of increased sunspots has been incorporated into the climate panel models, and is considered to explain some of the global warming. At the same time, in 2001 the Climate Panel concluded that there is new and strong evidence that most of the global warming in the last 50 years is due to human influence. The representative refers to the hypothesis that variations in solar magnetism may also affect the earth’s climate by indirectly affecting the formation of low clouds. The hypothesis was assessed by the Climate Panel in its report in 2001, but because it has not been confirmed in any way, it could not be given particular attention. However, the Climate Panel says that there is a lack of knowledge in this area and that more research is needed. The theme will be central when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change presents its fourth report in 2007. We know that both the sun and the greenhouse effect are very important for the earth's climate. From the look-up in the media, you can easily get the impression that the sun is against the greenhouse, and that there is a question of either – or. The debate among researchers is severally more nuanced. There is hardly anyone who rejects either changes in solar activity or enhanced greenhouse effect as the cause of the global warming we have seen in the last 100 years, but there is disagreement about the relative importance of these two factors. Although the sun would prove to be more significant than what is now known, this does not mean that the increased greenhouse effect due to our emissions becomes less severe. In worst-case cases, natural warming produced by the sun may be in addition to man-made warming. Then we can get really big problems, and since it is now beyond human capacity to reduce the warming effect of the sun, it gives us further reason to work hard to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions that we have the opportunity to influence, namely the man-made climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1623	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I just need to remind you that 96-97 pst. of the total global emissions of CO2 come from nature itself. The Labour Party has repeatedly called for Norway to build gas power plants within the framework of our climate commitments. How many gas power plants can be built in Norway such a situation now and in the next few years, without doing so outside the framework of our climate obligations? I'm talking about gas power plants with today's technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1630	The solar problem was then brought down to the ground quickly by this additional question. That's enough, to say it mildly, something on the outskirts of what was the main question. The additional questions shall be a follow-up to the main question. First, the representative's emphasis on the amount of greenhouse gases caused by natural emissions. It is absolutely right that most of the greenhouse gas emissions are natural emissions, which we have no influence on. There are no climate scientists who have claimed anything else either. But what has increased is the man-made greenhouse gas emissions, especially from fossil fuels. And it's these additions that help the earth get warmer, with the drama we've seen in recent years, and that's an indication of what it's going to be more of in relation to tougher weather. So it's these additions of greenhouse gases that we have to try to do something with, if we're to avoid the dramatic climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1637	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The follow-up question is a consequence of the climate policy of the Government, and I then record that the Council of State is unable to respond to the consequences of the climate policy of the State Council and Government. I just have to take note of that. Cost-effectiveness is a key consideration of climate policy, as in other environmental policies. It is important to choose solutions that give the greatest environmental benefit in terms of costs. How does it fit in with the urgency of CO2 reduction measures, if it turns out that Norwegian climate policy is overfocused on emissions of so-called man-made greenhouse gases, and underfocuss on solar activity and other causes far beyond the control of policy-makers? Why does the Council of State and the Government not use the precautionary principle, even in terms of the economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1644	The President will recall that the supplementary questions should be related to the main question raised. Does the Council of State wish to respond?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1647	Yes, I do not usually have the experience that the questions from this representative do not relate to the original question. What the representative cannot see is that I am not willing to answer the question. What he can see is that I have one minute to answer, and then I turned to the first part of the question. With regard to the second part of the question, i.e. the follow-up question, which did not have much to do with the original question, it is that any conventional gas power plant in Norway or gas power plant with CO2 management would be part of the Norwegian greenhouse gas accounts. And then we have a commitment to the Kyoto Protocol, which we will deal with. But what we're not doing at home with reductions, we're going to use the Kyoto mechanisms in relation to, and that's the most cost-effective way to deal with it. It is true that the representative has also stressed at least on previous occasions that replacing coal with purer Norwegian natural gas could be an advantage. We do not disagree with that. But what we disagree about is whether we should use the precautionary principle in relation to the dramatic climate change that is likely to happen in the coming years. A good conservative principle is then to avoid it by doing what we think is necessary to limit the negative effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1658	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-19.ana.ud1509e1669	There is no record.
