ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e36	The representative Knut Storberget will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e39	On behalf of the representatives of Olav Aksensen, Sylvia Brustad, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, Sigrun Eng and myself, I would like to propose measures to increase the share of timber and timber products transported by rail.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e44	The representative Rolf Rikvam will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e47	On behalf of Lena Jensen, Heikki Holmås and myself, I will make proposals to renew today's examination system and assessment methods in primary and secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e52	The representative Heikki Holmås will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e55	On behalf of Sigbjørn Molvik, Inga Marte Thorkildsen and myself, I would like to propose measures for the homeless.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e60	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e72	The President shall request a proposal for a new member of the Election Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e75	I'll suggest Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e80	Marit Arnstad has been proposed as a new member of the electoral committee instead of Odd Roger Enoksen. Other proposals are not available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e100	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2668]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e116	It is today a unanimous Foreign Affairs Committee which, in its decision, calls upon the United Kingdom to agree to the approval of seven new countries in Eastern and Central Europe to become members of NATO. This underlines the broad support it is and has been in Norway for this enlargement process. Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia were invited to start membership negotiations at the NATO Summit in Prague last November and Protocols on accession to the Treaty were signed in Brussels on 26 March this year. Countries are likely to join in May next year. A broad majority of the Committee, all parties other than SV, believes that this extension of NATO is also an important contribution to stability in Europe. Enlargement, together with the strengthening of partnership cooperation and the increasing integration of Russia into the Euro-Atlantic structures, is, in the majority's view, an important contribution to eradicating old dividing lines in Europe. NATO membership will also help consolidate and further develop the political and economic reforms in these countries. The majority also believe that the admission of these countries will be a strength for NATO, both politically and militarily. The extension of NATO is historically in many ways. It is historic because this expansion, like the previous one, which included Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary, is the result of the dramatic changes that took place in Europe when the Berlin Wall fell and the cold war was over. At that time many predicted the healthy death of the Alliance. The Warsaw Pact disappeared, and it was thought that NATO's function was thus gone. This turned out to be wrong. NATO not only survived but showed, among other things, in Kosovo in 1999 its continued importance for the security and stability of the Euro-Atlantic region. This expansion confirms this and is not least part of the further eradicating of old dividing lines in Europe. Enlargement is also historic because it includes three countries in Norway’s neighbourhoods that were formerly Soviet republics. Early after Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia gained their independence, the desire for NATO membership emerged. It is therefore of great importance that these three countries now see the final phase of their efforts and that the shadows of history will not be thrown over their future. The extension of NATO cannot be seen detached from the enlargement of the EU. Both processes help to expand and strengthen the area of stability, security, human rights and well-being in Europe. It is gratifying that this time SV will not vote against the extension of NATO, as the party did when the Stortinget dealt with the membership of Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic. But it is incomprehensible that the party does not have a single positive comment in its special comments in the committee setting. Furthermore, the party did not wish to express its view that enlargement will make an important contribution to stability in Europe. I know that this line is in line with the party's work programme for the current ageing period, which is in line with NATO's extension, and which obliges the party to work for Norway to leave NATO. In its special remarks in the committee setting, SV writes that even with the new members NATO will maintain dividing lines from the cold war. It's hard to understand this. NATO will have 26 member countries after enlargement. Today's NATO has partnership agreements with 27 countries. After the terrorist actions of 11 September a year and a half ago, the NATO-Russia cooperation also gained a completely new dynamic that resulted in the establishment of the NATO-Russia Council. This underlines the broad cooperation that is taking place under the NATO regime, across old dividing lines. The consequence of the SV's view would be that Europe's country went back to having its national defences, i.e. a renationalisation of defence instead of the collective defence system we have had in the post-war period. With the story in mind, it's incomprehensible to me that someone can go in for something like this. We know too well what it has done when the national armies have resisted each other. We don't have to go back any further than the 1990s to see this. I would say that if we had not had NATO and the EU in the 1990s, we could still have war and ethnic cleansing in the Balkans, which in turn could become a threat to the whole continent. I am pleased that a broad majority on the Great Britain are involved in bringing Europe another step further away from its nationalistic and therefore tragic and bloody history. What we see is that the European Union and NATO bind our continent together in a community of destiny. I am personally convinced that these organisations are a prerequisite for strengthening the UN's global role, because by giving Europe a stronger political voice through the EU, we can have the hope of ensuring good relations between Europe, the United States and Russia. Equivalence is a prerequisite for good relations between the Atlantic and Russia. Through NATO, we can work to ensure that the United States does not become sole but, on the contrary, is obliged to the United Nations. NATO also helps to link Russia and partner countries into the Euro-Atlantic fate community. These conditions mean that NATO is now the only remaining multinational military structure that will in future be able to do peace-building and peace-building tasks under UN mandate. The demolition of the statue of Saddam Hussein in Baghdad on Wednesday may be as important as the fall of the Berlin Wall in its time. The fall of the Berlin Wall paved the way for a new Europe. The conflict between the veto acts of the UN Security Council prior to the war on Iraq and the war itself in Iraq, which now leads to the fall of one of the most brutal regimes in the Middle East, may pave the way for a new world order. I am absolutely convinced that without a strong Europe and a NATO that can be a link to the two old superpowers of the United States and Russia, the new world order can be marked by a weakened UN and a far-reaching United States of America. This won't be good for anyone. That is why we must work to preserve and strengthen the organisations we have in Europe and in transatlantic cooperation. That is what the Storing will do today by approving the extension of NATO to seven new countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e146	‘The recommendation of the Committee is unanimous’, reads on page 3 of the Foreign Affairs Committee’s document. You have to be able to characterize it as historical. We tend to be concerned in this Chamber with the broad cross-political consensus on the main lines of Norwegian foreign and security policy. Wider than this, the consensus can be difficult. But we've been used to saying that with regard to all the issues that have to do with Norwegian security and defence policy, there has at least been one party in this room that has separated and gone its own way. The rather surprising thing about today's setting is that SV has a very long and very complex special comment that most readers would expect had a completely different conclusion. While it is not necessary to worry about what is happening in terms of premise and conclusions, it must be allowed to state that it is surprising that SV has changed its position and is now a follower of the NATO enlargement, while, in all premises, NATO is still opposed and obviously prefers NATO to cease to exist. It is possible that this also explains SV's success at the gallup, with which there is reason to congratulate the party. There is evidence that the most popular folk sport in Norway is currently an exercise called run-in without hope. The historical background to the matter we are dealing with is of completely different dimensions than the internal political constellations in Norway. Shortly after World War II, Winston Churchill gave a famous speech, where for the first time he launched the term Iron Curtain, which had sunk across Europe. For people of my age and old, the word iron carpet is part of the collective consciousness that we're going to carry with us. Still, many people do have problems updating themselves mentally in relation to a European map that looks fundamentally different than what we were used to over half a hundred years. Today's European map no longer has an iron carpet. Today’s Europe no longer has any division. And there's reason to express joy that what we thought was a two-part division that had come to be for all the future, turned out to be a historical parentheses. Today, we are back to the main line in Europe’s history, where there may still be many conflicts of interest – that is natural, and it will always be so – and where there are also clear contradictions from time to time in the view of current international conflicts. We've seen that clearly enough in Europe in the last few months. But the situation is nevertheless that there are no blocks that stand against each other on a permanent basis, nor are there alliances that stand against each other on a permanent basis. We're back again in a normal situation historically. At the same time, if you think in long historical lines, there is reason to rejoice that Europe in today's world is no longer a continent that delivers political conflicts to the rest of the world or – even worse – fights out its political conflicts in ways that draw the rest of the world into the drag. In the century we've just left behind, we've been used to operating with two world wars. The only thing these two world wars have in common is that none of them were world wars. There were classic European major powers conflicts, to which the rest of the world was drawn increasingly. Today, thanks to NATO cooperation and the development of European integration within the EU, we are in a situation where Europe can help resolve conflicts in other parts of the world and no longer deliver conflicts that others need to participate in. It's unbelievable. It must also be noted that Europe as a continent has quite a debt to pay off to the rest of the world in this way, and it is a pleasure that we have come into a situation in which Europe is able to pay the sums due on its historic debt. From this perspective, NATO’s expansion is one of many contributions to Europe’s becoming a positive contributor to global conflict management. It is gratifying that the NATO enlargement is coming into place. It is gratifying that Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia will be able to contribute, in the future, on an equal footing with the other NATO Member States, to strengthening both military cooperation and wider cooperation in the field of security policy. Once again, it must be allowed to express some wonder at the SV's specific comment, which seems to be based on the assumption that Europe's problem is still a kind of latent division, where we talk about the need for detachment and concreteize this towards the fact that it is Russia's attitude at all times – whether the Russians express joy or the opposite of what is happening within NATO cooperation – which should be the decisive criterion for accepting or not accepting. At best, it has to be a outdated perception of reality. It's also strange that one repeatedly expresses its great concern about the new NATO, or rather about the security policy concept that underlies NATO cooperation today, when one at the same time knows that SV was an almost fanatical opponent of the old NATO, but then on completely different premises. NATO is facing serious challenges. It has also shown the course of the Iraq conflict crisis. The EU is also facing difficult challenges in meeting the ambition to develop a common European security and foreign policy. It's a long way to go before you get close to having fulfilled these ambitions. But there's reason to express joy that the goal is set, and that one strives to move towards this goal. At the same time, there is reason to stress that Norway is in a position that we do not eventually share with many other European countries, namely as a member of NATO and as a non-member of the EU. There is a position that we, as I said, do not share with many, and it presents us with quite great challenges in thinking about how we use our membership of NATO and our non-membership of the European Union. It is still the case that each country must take care of its own security needs and develop its own security and foreign policy course. Norway has chosen a course that is exceptionally demanding, and there is reason to fear that in the years to come it may become more and more demanding. It presents us all in this room with significant challenges in foreign policy thinking. It is thought-provoking – if we start from our own close corner of Europe, the Nordic region – that in the years to come we will have a situation where two of the Nordic countries, namely our neighbouring countries Sweden and Finland, stand out from the rest of the countries around the Baltic Sea by being outside NATO cooperation, while the Baltic countries and the countries on the southern side of the Baltic Sea will be part of NATO cooperation. Similarly, the majority of countries in this area will participate fully in EU cooperation. There's Norway and Iceland that stand out. However it is turned around and turned around, there is good reason to note that those countries that do not participate on an equal footing in both these cooperation organisations are providing with a disability compared to the countries that participate fully with the others. For this reason, it must be allowed to end with a never-needed goal in – let’s say – a five-year perspective: in five years’ time, all five Nordic countries will participate fully in both NATO and EU cooperation. It would give the Nordic a potential political influence in Europe that the Nordics have not had in memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e176	The rapporteur presented the role of NATO in an excellent manner, not least historically, and the importance of enlargement. The representative on the pay side took the position of SV in this case separately. I will not comment on it further, just join in the comments that the representative of the payroll made in this way. This extension is supported by the Progress Party. For us, NATO itself is the cornerstone of our defence and of our security-policy anchoring. We will also give NATO membership much of the credit for our security and freedom after World War II. Against this background, it is not unnatural for other countries to seek the same security as we, countries that have experienced what it means to be both occupied and deprived of their freedom during the time of the Soviet dictatorship. NATO's strength in addition to cohesion has been that it has had a deterrent military capacity. The organisation is far from just a political organisation. The military part has been the foundation. We hope the extension won't change this. And we hope that the new Member States will thus help to increase rather than reduce NATO's military capacity. Recently, there has been concern not only in the UN Security Council but also in NATO. Germany and, in particular, France have wanted to demonstrate disagreement with the United States and the United Kingdom on important security policy issues. This gives cause for concern and concern. Although the majority of NATO Member States have supported both the war in Iraq and rapid assistance to Turkey, it is nevertheless inaccurate to record that the alliance is marked by an internal unrest. But luckily, the new Member States have been very clear here in their support for the United States and the United Kingdom, and thus have been much more involved in isolating Germany and France. So we believe that enlargement can be a happiness in this area, because we need a strong NATO, and we don't want any division across the Atlantic. We feel that the new Member States understand – perhaps better than very many others. For us, this is also about the role to be played by the EU, not least on the European continent in the future in terms of security and defence policy – partly also foreign policy. We understand that the new Member States want to participate and ensure that the role of NATO is not diluted for the benefit of the EU. So we can dampen it, for example. France's ambitions for a strong EU-organised military force, rather building on what we have in NATO, and working for the Americans to remain in Europe. So the time of NATO enlargement is right, and from our side it is with great expectation that we welcome the new countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e191	Today, we are debating the extent of NATO. The content of NATO will be returned when the annual report arrives later in the spring. For SV, it has always been important that the European Security Facility has taken care of and position in Russia. The last time the Stortinget was to ratify the NATO extension was in 1998. Then SV went against because of the reactions the extension was weighting in Russia. This time, too, it has our opposition from the Russian side. Even after the expansion, one will sort of keep separate lines from the cold war. In the spring of 2002, a cooperation agreement was reached between NATO and Russia, which, quite rightly, only covers political cooperation on current political issues and is not a military cooperation venue. Nevertheless, this agreement is a contribution to rescheduling in Europe, although it still remains to be seen what concrete consequences it will bring. So now that the new search countries meet the criteria for joining, and it doesn't support the relationship between NATO and Russia, it's my opinion that it's not Norway's role to oversee their assessment that they're going to be members. The self-extension, in SV's opinion, creates no new uncertain situation, because the relationship with Russia is slow, but probably more clear. We will vote in favour of the ratification of the extension, while we see that the extension does not improve the sides of NATO to which SV is very critical, and to which we are fundamentally opposed. If we look at what's happening in NATO today, it's unclear. We know that the United States in relation to Germany's reaction, in relation to Article 4 use in Turkey, etc. has rustled with the idea of moving e.g. The strengths that stand in Germany are a little further to the east. This could provoke Russia unnecessarily. Even when we discussed the extension here in the Chamber in 1997 – I wasn't there, but several of you were there – it was quite clear that central people in both the Right and the Labour Party were opposed to the extension. Also military forces were opposed, and also the research environment was skeptical to an extension. Now it's slow, but surely it's gone on. We feel that one has been given a clearer situation with regard to Russia. We should try to develop this slowly, but surely. Then, when the Annual Report comes up, we will be allowed to come back to new strategies in NATO such as the preventive attack, the out of area strategy, the nuclear strategy, etc. There is still the main problem in NATO, according to SV's opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e208	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e211	It is gratifying that there is a unanimous committee setting, and that SV will now vote for the extension of NATO, as opposed to the previous one. But to make it clear what SV is in favour of – and without disturbing this consensus, but it may be good to know for the future what SV really means – I have to ask for the following: In the SV's work programme for the current period, there is a text about NATO, and then there are some operational points. These operational points include: SV will during the period ‘– work towards the extension of NATO to several new Member States....– propose Norwegian NATO declamation’. What is SV's view of NATO? Does SV think that the enlargement we are now facing will contribute to what the majority of the Committee has expressed, increasing stability and security in Europe? Or does SV still want to go back to their national defences in Europe? For if Norway is to be able to do so, as SV believes, all the other countries will also be able to do so, namely have their own national defence without being integrated into a security community. As I said, it is fine that SV will vote in favour, but we need to clarify what SV really means.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e227	Finally, a possible renationalisation of Europe, Thorbjørn Jagland received a very good response from Erik Solheim already in 1997. I am in the same position that it is clear that it is a problem if it should lead to a renationalisation. Our main reason for going in for the extension is that we can't sit down as superiors to the countries that want to search themselves. However, it is a problem that we must create a pan-European security system that also covers Russia as much as possible. We see that Russia can see this as a threat. We know, as Erik Solheim also said in 1997, that this extension leads to the fact that NATO's boundary actually goes about 8 miles from St. Petersburg, by a city formerly a suburb of St. Petersburg. So we have to deal with Russia. That's what Finland, mainly with the Kekkonen line, has been very good at up through history. We see it in SV that it is not a good idea to demand that Norway, as a member of NATO, veto the NATO extension. Rather, we want to strengthen cooperation with parties and organisations working towards NATO and NATO's current strategy on the same basis as us, and the old and possible new NATO countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e236	Sometimes, in a completely different debate, you tend to characterize a somewhat surprising position as follows: you are opposed to priests, but you are a supporter of female priests. The SV's position is, if I understood Jacobsen correctly, that one is against NATO and all its essence and against Norwegian membership in NATO, but one is in favour of the extension of NATO, and it is with the somewhat surprising reason that Russia does not oppose it. If this is to be taken seriously, it must mean that the independent Norwegian foreign policy that SV is calling for in time and time in this Chamber, and the requirement that one should not be interested in what major powers or superpowers might mean, in reality, boils down to the fact that there is a poll in Moscow that determines the SV's position at any time. In fact, you say that you don't want to try out other countries' wishes for NATO membership, but with the crucial reservation: it's SV who has to assess how Moscow perceives this at any time, and if Moscow is negative, SV will try anyway, if I have the right idea. It is in itself gratifying that Jacobsen has a liberal relationship with his own party program – perhaps even an unorthmatic relationship with the party program. But it goes a long way when he didn't even try to answer Thorbjørn Jagland's questions about whether SV is still obliged on his own party program. If the SV itself takes the game program so little seriously, can there not be any reason why the voters or other parties should bother to read the game program?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e243	First for polling in Moscow. Of course, that's not our basis. But Inge Wohnung also knows well that all European security cooperation, all European security policy, must relate to Russia. Russia is the largest arsenal of both nuclear and other weapons in Europe. I repeat, our main reason is that we don't want to sit over the new search countries. We can't find that right, not least on the basis of a principle of self-righteousness. When it comes to the relationship with the party program, there is no doubt that we have considered it not likely to go against the extension, on the basis of the principle of democracy that I consider. We've had a fairly wide process in the party, and even if it says in our program that we're going to put in proposals for the release of NATO, we don't find it natural to do so in connection with this extension debate. We experience that when, for example, Contradicting ‘Enduring Freedom’, which is partly a NATO operation in Afghanistan, is also in practice expressing what our party programme says, that we are going out of NATO, and that we are against NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e250	I'd like to first commend you for two things. One is that an extension should be extended, assuming that the seven applicant countries should have the right to decide for themselves whether or not to join. I also want to pay tribute to admit the dilemmas that lie in this, also in relation to the program point that SV has, and I feel that an actual manager, even though I think there is a lot of work to do with the party program before you have found it. But it's good to have a looker. But there were two types of inconsistencies I wanted to point to. One is that the representative Jacobsen says that with the extension and the boundaries that come then, one will largely be back to the situation during the cold war. What marked the Cold War was that Russia, the then Soviet, had annexed virtually all the countries that are now seeking membership, plus the countries that came in as members last. And that's a dramatic difference. That is what caused the great fear both in Norway and in other countries, that it should be the same for us. So it could be impossible to go back to the same situation. I'm asking for Jacobsen's assessment of whether it was really a precise formulation he had there. That's it with Russia. Even if one does not use polling in Russia, does Jacobsen not see that it can be quite inconsistent that SV to those degrees criticises that the majority of the Stortinget opinion is that it is important to maintain a close and good relationship with the United States – although some times, like now, have chosen another way – while SV here actually uses Russia as the main guide to the foreign policy position one should take for oneself? Can it be independent and independent?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e260	First of all, about Russia. We have a common border with Russia, we always have to deal with – call it the Russian bear. Our most important task in security policy is to bring Russia into the fold, to contribute to Russian democracy. Maybe we've neglected there. Previously, during the Cold War, the Soviet Union was much up as a discussion theme, what we had to do there, what we had to contribute to. Maybe we've neglected here that we've done too little after? That's my main reason there. We have to deal with Russia, and we have to get Russia to play teams. This happens slowly, but surely. That is why what we are also considering today is that the extension can be possible, because a failure in all of this has come to cooperation agreements that show that a slow but safe one is on the way. Then we also know that even in the Atlantic Treaty, it is quite clear that one should relate to the United Nations, to the Security Council, as those who should have the main responsibility for international peace and security. Russia is also involved. We need to create a superstructure in Europe that can also reflect internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e267	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e270	I first allowed myself to keep up with the reasoning about what the string change was about. It is quite right for the representative Jacobsen to say that ‘we have to deal with Russia’. It's important. And so does NATO. I want to say that those who actually work the most in relation to the development of democracy in Russia today are NATO, with the new joint bodies that have come, and that as one of them. There are no other structures that are related to Russia, as NATO is right now. But if one were to follow the line that the representative Jacobsen on behalf of SV forfects, too far – there were some European states that warned, for example. against Baltic membership in NATO for the same reason – not to disturb the bear, the countries that desperately wanted membership as security would not, in fact, be allowed to join the alliance of security they feel given. I am so privileged that I am present in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and have been allowed to visit most of these countries. I have to say that meeting representatives of the regimes and public organizations in these countries and seeing what NATO membership means to them means, at least not by my side and the Christian People's Party can go too far on a path where Russia is going to put the premises in a way. Then we would ignore the important democratic needs of these states, which we see they have. We live and live in an increasingly globalised and integrated value. This allows greater interaction and sharing of global good. At the same time, the greatest challenges we face are cross-border by nature. It sees poverty, the spread of diseases and the problem of refugees. We're more dependent on each other now than before, which makes us more vulnerable. Physical borders and geographical distances will not protect us in a globalized world when threats involve terrorism and international crime. Solutions must be found through international cooperation. The global situation is uncertain, but the relationship to our own neighbourhood has hardly ever been better. The end of the Cold War led to a new orientation and a new focus from NATO. This is particularly noticeable after the terrorist attack on the United States. Today, NATO is in the first place busy fighting international terrorism and spreading weapons of mass destruction. In the past, the task was primarily to defend the Member States against Soviet deception. For more than fifty years, we were facing the treason of the Communist bloc and their military forces. There was a tangle of Western countries divided, although individuals felt more vulnerable than others. This treason is no longer present, at least not in the same way, with a democratic Russia. Today we have a democratic Russia as a neighbour, a country that is committed to its future in close cooperation with Western countries. This close cooperation is anchored in the new NATO-Russia Council. NATO’s new focus has led to seven new countries being invited now to increase cooperation and host members. Most of these countries are from Central and Eastern Europe. This means that the majority of European states are now becoming members of NATO. The Christian People's Party welcomes the extension of NATO, and believes it is an important contribution to strengthening European stability and cooperation. NATO has been through a strong military and strategic conversion. Although the core tasks of collective defence of the Member States consist, the alliance places more emphasis on crisis management, participation in international operations and cooperation with different partners. Some have suggested that the extension will lead to the alliance losing its efficiency and its power of action. I don't agree with that. Such an extension can, of course, create disadvantages and problems in transition, but I am overconfident that the benefits will be much greater. The arrival of several countries does not mean that the alliance stops its process of change and its renewal. Enlargement and renewal can and must take place at the same time. The inclusion of the new Member States has also been carefully assessed and planned in NATO. A number of assessments and impact assessments have been carried out to adapt the new countries to the military structure of NATO, the planning processes for defence and the impact of the co-financed programmes. Since the countries were invited to join in December last year and until March this year, there has been a series of meetings between NATO and the specific countries to discuss and formally confirm their interest, their willingness to do so, and whether it is possible for them to meet the political, legal and military obligations of NATO membership. Norway is committed to requiring NATO as an organisation to become more flexible, relevant and better adapted to today’s tangles. We must therefore also make demands on the new Member States. I am overconfident that the new Member States of the Alliance want a strong and effective NATO and that they will therefore contribute to it. In the extension process, Member States had to go through an action plan. This would provide them with advice, help and practical support to achieve all the requirements of a NATO membership. The search countries were expected to achieve targets in several fields, not just the military. The applicant countries would also achieve targets when it comes to the political and economic field. It included resolving each international, ethnic or external territorial dispute by peaceful means. They were to show that they were obliged to govern by law and order, and that they would work to preserve human rights. They were to establish democratic control over the armed forces and promote stability and well-being through economic freedom, social justice and environmental responsibility. I have to say, after visiting these countries again, that I am impressed by what they have sacrificed to actually achieve these goals. It's hard to find room in the budget for things, with the budgets they have, but when you can see how they have been prioritised, I believe in the degrees of willingness these countries have to become responsible members. The Christian People's Party sees these processes as very valuable in itself. An application for NATO membership has had a positive impact on democratic processes in the countries. It makes them more stable democracy. These processes have therefore led NATO membership to develop political and economic reforms in these countries, while NATO itself will be strengthened, both politically and militarily. The fact that Ukraine is now going through such an action plan for any application also gives us a little hope of a democratic change in that country. We see that Ukraine – a large country in Europe, with 50 million inhabitants – has a rather difficult path to a real democracy, and perhaps a process in relation to NATO is the only one that can actually make Ukraine carry out the necessary reforms, so that they go in a democratic western direction, and do not fall back on the old regime they had in and under the Soviet Union. NATO is still the foremost guarantor of peace and security in our part of the world. The enlargement from 19 to 26 Member States illustrates the role and impact of NATO. Had NATO not been relevant, not so many countries would have liked membership. The gap in military capability between the United States and Europe is a challenge for NATO. Europe needs to provide more so that Americans get a European party they respect. It will require stable European defence budgets and enhanced cooperation with increased emphasis on multi-national solutions. NATO should form a frame around this. International peace and stability focus on a strong NATO. The Christian People's Party would like to warmly welcome the new member countries and look forward to cooperating with them as full-fledged NATO members.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e296	We note that there is a broad consensus in the Great Britain about NATO enlargement. It's a pleasure. We also register that SV turns around in this case. It's not so good for us to understand the relationship between voting today and the party program, but we just get to record that. NATO has previously expanded with Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary. The trip has now come to Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia. All seven countries are traditionally equally welcome in NATO, but it must be allowed to rejoice a little in particular that the three Baltic countries are now being incorporated into the organisation, three countries with which Norway and the Nordic countries have historically had very close relations – relations which were brutally interrupted during the Soviet era, and relations with which we have now had the opportunity to rebuild over a few years. It is very gratifying that we can now include the Baltic countries in our cooperation on security policy. This is indeed a symbol of the definitive end of the Cold War. When the three Baltic countries are admitted to NATO, it also shows how rapidly political developments have progressed in Europe since the fall of the Berlin Wall. Russia's acceptance of Baltic NATO membership shows that the dismantling of old dividing lines has gone far more painless than we could have feared. However, the central party will continue to underline the importance of NATO's fully consistent relations with Russia. The NATO-Russia Council must be given real content, and the emphasis must be on as much transparency as possible. The accession to the Agreement on the admission of seven new Member States takes place in a turbulent time also for NATO. The division among NATO Member States on the issue of dealing with the Iraq issue in general and on the point of view at the time of the implementation of safeguard measures against Turkey has led, in particular, to the issue of the threat to NATO's future by several teams. The centre party is convinced that NATO can withstand the shocks the organization has been through and that the division that we have seen should not be exaggerated. Some believe that the unilateral action of the Bush administration internationally should lead to the United States being pushed out of cross-Atlantic cooperation structures, and that the EU should be built up as a balancing force for the United States, at the expense of NATO. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this will be the wrong way to go. It's a fact that the world has one superpower. The superpower currently has an administration that many of us are concerned about, as far as its foreign policy course is concerned. However, demonizing and isolating the United States would be a totally wrong strategy. What you should do and have to do is, rather, include the United States more closely in collaboration structures and, to be honest, tell your friend the United States when your friend does things we think go over the line. The central party believes that Norway should play a constructive role in contributing to the reduction of the tension that has occurred in NATO. We have good assumptions for that, assuming that we are NATO members, but we are outside the EU. The new US security policy strategy, based on preventive attacks, combined with NATO’s increased out-of-area ambitions, can be a mixture that makes NATO a more offensive alliance than many had seen. This should be discussed. This should be discussed in Norway, and this should be discussed in the agencies of NATO in the future. After the United States, with the help of the United Kingdom and other partners, has chosen to go to a military attack on Iraq without a United Nations mandate, we also need on the Norwegian side the ability to discuss how this plays into NATO's work. I believe the Minister of Defence is going too far when she says at the Prague Summit: ‘NATO can and should be put more directly into our common fight against international terrorism’. Norway should not, in the opinion of the Centre Party, be in favour of what is perceived as a more offensive NATO. Rather, we should concentrate on securing our own areas and thereby meeting a central commitment to alliance. The United States and the United Kingdom dealing with the Iraq crisis and NATO's internal disagreement in this matter also illustrate a need to define the role of the call-out force, which was adopted at the Prague Summit. It is necessary to take a closer look at the underlying assumptions for the use of this force and how the use of the call-out force is to be anchored in international law. The Central Party encourages the Government to go further into these issues and bring them into NATO context, and we should certainly also be able to discuss these matters in the Storting. Because what we don't have to get into, what needs to be avoided, and which is becoming more important now than ever to prevent, is that NATO debates are going to be festivities. We must face the new challenges facing the new and enlarged NATO. This is demanding, and we're going to get back to that. Today, we are mainly to rejoice at the approval of NATO enlargement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e333	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e336	What made me ask for the floor was the interesting middle part of Åslaug Hagas' posts, where she reflected on NATO's further road in the light of the stresses you've been through in connection with the Iraq crisis. It is not difficult to share Åslaug Hagas' wish that the problems had to be overcome in the near future. On the other hand, it is a little difficult to avoid asking questions about Åslaug Hagas’ reasoning in this context, because Åslaug Haga and the Zenterpartie have gone very high on the track in their support of the French-German line – even at times higher than France and Germany themselves by embracing proposals and plans that proved not to exist. It must be noted in retrospect that, to the extent that the overall purpose of France and Germany was to prevent the war, they have failed – unfortunately. It must also be possible to see that what has been achieved, on the other hand, is to make a very effective contribution to strengthening unilateralist trends in Washington. Those trends are Åslaug Haga not pleased, she said, and it is not difficult to agree with her in that way. But does Åslaug Haga agree with my assessment of what has actually come out of this, and does she also share the opinion that she herself has been hurt to help strengthen unilateralist tendencies in the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e343	I wish we could first of all agree that every war is a defeat. If we end up with a war, it's something that's gone wrong along the way. That's what we should be trying to catch up to. In the case of American solitude, and if our attitude in the process of Iraq has contributed to it, I must remind the representative of Wage about the starting point. The starting point was a situation in which the Americans said, "We're going to bring this question to the United Nations." But the starting point was that no matter what the United Nations had to choose, the Americans made it clear that they would go to a military attack on Iraq. That was the government we have here in the country, not able to understand at an early enough time. I felt the Americans were ready. They said, "If we get our will in the United Nations, it's great." It will strengthen us. If we don't get our will, we choose to go to a military attack anyway. It would have been very wise if the Norwegian government had seen that picture before. Then you could also play a lot more constructively towards the processes that have taken place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e350	No pay in a row — in the hope that this will not develop into another debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e353	It is well among those sidings that still have a connection with the main track — hopefully. Åslaug Haga's history regarding the United Nations Security Council process was very simplified, to say the least. I tried to invite her to give an assessment of what was achieved through the line that Åslaug Haga himself recommended, namely that the Norwegian government should have gone out as far as possible, like the German one, for a long time in advance and declared what under no circumstances would be included, perhaps, as the French one, threatening to use a veto right which one would strictly not have had if the UN had been designed out of today's world. Both recommended Åslaug Haga at the warmest. I found that this line did not lead to the desired result. And we must be able to agree that it did not. Now we will never know whether another act and a desire to find a compromise in the UN Security Council in the follow-up to UNSCR 1441 would have led to the avoidance of the war. We're never going to get an answer to that. But at least you would have had greater prospects of avoiding the war than with the line you actually chose, and as Åslaug Haga recommended at the warmest.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e362	I have to return the question to the representative on the issue of whether we ended up with a good result in relation to Iraq. Is it the case that the Right has obtained the desired result in relation to Iraq? I hope the answer to that question is given. I am of those who quite fundamentally believe that it was unusually important that Germany and France, in part Belgium and Russia, stood up against the American handling of the Security Council. The worst possible outcome of the conflict in Iraq would be if the UN had agreed to a war that could still be avoided. And that was the situation. We were in a situation where the weapons inspectors worked, where the weapons inspections worked, and where the weapons were destroyed in Iraq. The worst possible outcome would be if the world community had said yes to this war, which we could possibly have avoided. I'm sure the world community wouldn't have come to that conclusion if it hadn't been for some countries actually to go in front and take the initial fixations with the Americans.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e369	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e373	I'm not going to continue the discussion of what forces have stimulated the unilateralist movements in the United States. I just want to pay attention to the fact that the transatlantic dialogue in NATO is likely to become more important than ever after the Iraq war. Today, we are dealing with the greatest expansion in the history of the NATO Alliance. It is not historical only because of the number of countries, but it is primarily historical because of which countries are admitted as full members of NATO. Less than 15 years ago, Bulgaria and Romania were members of the Warsaw Pact. All the countries that are now being addressed are behind Churchill’s baptism of ‘the Iron Curtain’. Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovenia and Slovakia were not even independent countries. Now these countries become members of NATO. There is an illustration of the history of this expansion, and there is also an illustration of NATO’s adaptability to new structures and to new challenges. If we ask today’s youth about the Wall, we might get the following answer: What wall? But less than 15 years ago, the Wall stood in Berlin. We had both cold war and balance of power. November 9, 1989, was a very common day – except in Berlin, where the people blew up the hated wall. The impossible, the unpredictable, the unimaginable had happened. The date marks a physical breakthrough in history. Our challenges and opportunities arise from this breakthrough. The order of the new era – and there are probably people who want to mean disorder – started here. The Soviet Union collapsed, Germany was gathered into one kingdom – do we remember that Germany was divided into two? – and new countries with exotic names began. We experienced ethnic conflicts in Europe, we experienced blood leaves in the former Yugoslavia – in the 1990s in Europe! But the new Europe took shape. Finland, Sweden and Austria became members of the EU — a clear indication that the old age was over. Three non-aligned countries from the border country of the Cold War now entered and gradually marked themselves strongly, and far on the way turned the internal balance of power in the EU north-east. Then we remember that Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary became members of NATO. Three countries crossed again borders from the cold war. They couldn't have done that before, because they didn't have this choice. Now they crossed this historical boundary on the basis of historical processes and democratic decisions, without conflicts other than those of democracy. NATO consisted of 16 countries when the Berlin Wall fell. Now it's decided that the alliance should consist of 26 countries. For years now, the countries that are entering have cooperated with the NATO Partnership for Peace. This also gives hope for the future. This is to be remembered when future optimism is replaced with fear of what tomorrow will bring, in today's most uncertain global security policy situation. This enlargement, to which we are today joining, unites Europe and gives the new countries a European identity and membership. NATO becomes an pan-European security organisation, in addition to a transatlantic one – let us not forget at these times that it is also transatlantic. Åslaug Haga said we have to prevent NATO debates from just being festivities. In the debate on NATO, I feel that it is natural that we also look at what happened at the Praha meeting, a little beyond enlargement. There are a lot of politicians, journalists and communicators who have said that NATO has played its part. I believe that this expansion is proof that NATO has a future even after the last weeks of turbulence and disagreement. NATO has proved to be a flexible organisation that has adapted to the new security policy situation, both after 9 November 1989 and after 11 September 2001, and will have to play an important role after the Iraq war. Many people have wondered if the alliance becomes a political pratec club, while the U.S. takes care of the sharp operations. In order to have political authority, a defence and security alliance must also have military facilities and instruments, just so we don't forget it when we hold speeches. I believe that one of the most important things that happened at the Praha meeting, in addition to the extension decision, were the decisions on the Prague Capabilities Commitment, PCC. The PCC is in many ways Lord Robertson’s genius – a division of labour and interoperability between the European NATO countries, which also appeared later in an agreement with the EU at the Copenhagen meeting. Because after 11 September it was the European countries that wanted to use Article 5. The United States was more concerned with bilateral negotiations with individual countries in a so-called ‘coalition of the willing’. One of the reasons, of course, is the huge defence gap between Europe and the United States. This is what the Prague Capabilities Commitment is about to fix. It implies, as I said, a division of labour between the European NATO countries, a revitalisation and strengthening of NATO, an adaptation to a new threat picture, and also military authority, which is a prerequisite for political authority in the alliance. And you can at least decrease something of the technology gap between Europe and the United States. Norway should, of course, also contribute to this, in particular as regards strategic maritime transport, maritime defence in general, and as the country of exercise for aircraft and army. Corresponding country-specific requirements have passed to the other Member States. Finally, the major migrations in NATO concern those who are used to assessing threats to security by counting the counterpart’s tanks or warships. The threats today are far more unpredictable: terrorism, organised crime, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, fundamentalists and disintegrators. This is what we are going to prepare for our territorial defence, and the reason why we have to make resources available for international operations in the short term, international operations that are also an advanced part of the defence of our own country. We are also working to maintain NATO's commitment and presence in Norway – and I believe we have a lot to offer NATO – as well as that we have come a long way in the conversion of our defence. Finally, I would like to offer both support and praise to the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the NATO delegation in Brussels for the work that is being done to ensure that we continue to have the presence of the Alliance in Norway. This is also part of the defence committee and has prioritised it in this six-month period. It is therefore a comprehensive Norwegian defence policy environment that supports this work. And I hope and believe that the other countries will also see it this way when we are going to take the final decision at the NATO summit in Brussels later this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e406	Let me first be allowed to thank Marit Nybakk for this very timely underlining of a broad Norwegian consensus on things we want to achieve. It's important that we work together on that kind of question. There's a historic decision The Stortinget now has to be part of it. Norway is the first country to have a parliamentary debate on the enlargement issue itself, the second country to ratify, and it underlines the importance of enlargement itself in Norway. With this expansion, we are facing the fact that seven new countries are now firmly anchored in a community of democracies. Enlargement will help ensure that NATO remains our main forum for security and defence cooperation. I am convinced that enlargement will strengthen NATO's ability to deal with today's threats in a very decisive way. It's of course a question that has been controversial over many years. I remember that the Stortinget for the first time was in the discussion of this kind of question in January 1994, and then the idea and the idea of course raised many questions and a lot of debate, and it is good to see how quickly development has gone after this. After all, what you are doing now is completing the work on a Europe without distinction. Norway has long worked for the widest possible extension of NATO. We were also at an early stage with our concrete support for the Baltic countries, and thus we have achieved an important foreign policy objective in this enlargement. The invited countries have contributed in a very convincing way to crisis management operations in the Balkans and have been indebted to the allies in the fight against international terrorism. Their willingness to take responsibility for our common security has been given considerable weight by all the allies. The fight against international terrorism has clearly demonstrated the importance of broad international cohesion. The NATO Summit in Prague last November confirms the seriousness of the new safety challenges facing allies. With the expansion behind us, we can now, in cooperation with our allies, look ahead and concentrate on the efforts to follow up the other decisions of the Praha meeting. The most important thing in the future will be to ensure that NATO is provided with the military structures and flexible military structures necessary to meet the new security challenges. From the Norwegian side, we will give priority to this. It's true, as Jacobsen says, that the NATO message to be addressed later in this session will provide opportunities to go deeper into these kinds of issues. I shall therefore refrain from addressing the many individual elements that have been raised in the debate, and which it might be natural to raise, precisely because it will give us a broader framework to do so. In conclusion, however, I just want to acknowledge one of Åslaug Hagas’ points, namely that Norway should contribute constructively to subduing the divisions in NATO, and try to make us stand together. I think it's a right approach, although in no way do I share her view that it's our lack of EU membership that puts us in such a position. I think, rather, that is the way we have just dealt with the debate in NATO in recent times, which puts us in such a situation. In this way, I would like to remind you that what the Minister of Defence said in Praha was an important contribution to putting Norway in such a position. I understand the desire to concentrate on securing my own areas. We will always do that in Norwegian defence policy. But I want to remind you that just to ensure our own areas, we've always been dependent on our allies. This means that when Norway wants to get, we also have to give — and there could be reason to remind the Centre party of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e429	When the U.S. Secretary of Defense, William Perry, launched the concept of Partnership for Peace in 1993, it had two purposes. The first purpose was to open up a process that gave a way to those countries that wanted to become members of NATO. The second was to facilitate a process that made it possible for those countries that were not naturally to become members of NATO to establish cooperation conditions that made this process go well. This gained general agreement, although, as the Foreign Minister said, in a number of countries there were many who asked questions about how this would work. The option that was then envisaged for a process of slowly entering into pan-European defence and security cooperation was that the new countries had to develop their own national defences that would take their own security into account. There would have been a much greater risk of not achieving peace for these countries in the future, which the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee pointed out quite correctly. Rarely has any cooperation project in Europe produced as successful results as this. Against the most anti-American forces, I think it might be appropriate to recall that this was an American initiative, which was presented at an informal meeting of defence ministers in NATO to ensure that the French could be present. I am both proud and pleased that this process has gone beyond the 1990s in the direction that the Baltic countries can now become members. Do you remember 1994/95 – how far it stood for us that it would be possible, and how intensely we wanted that to happen? Now it happens, and there are no protests, either from Russia or from anyone else. It's a fantastic development. At the same time, Romania becomes a member. It gives the European countries a whole new opportunity to increase their commitment to ensure that we can achieve peace and stability in the Balkans. In this work, Romania is becoming very central. I think it is a good thing that Romania is now becoming a member of NATO. But no one has to doubt that this will be a major challenge for the NATO countries, in particular because the development of European defence and security cooperation must not be done in such a way as to destroy NATO and transatlantic relations. I think we'll see that the Americans are going to redispatch their resources in Europe, in the new security policy picture we're seeing. It will be a challenge for the European countries to deal with this, with the certainty and certainty that, through transatlantic relations, we will create a new concept of European defence and security cooperation that will guarantee the next generation the same thing that we have experienced, that is, that we have lived our whole life, ever since 1945, in peace. There aren't many generations in the world that have actually had the opportunity that we've been given. The reason for this is precisely what the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs said, that cooperation was established, whereby each country had to build up its defence for its own security, instead of having a defence that invited and initiated cooperation with neighbouring countries. I believe that it will be challenging for Norway, as the representative of Wage said, as intensely depending on the transatlantic cooperation, where our closest allies, the United Kingdom and the United States, have their interests in the development of future European defence and security cooperation, while Norway has its special needs and its special interests. I think Norway has a special responsibility, but also a special opportunity to be a driver in these processes, which means that we bind the transatlantic links while solving the new challenges in Europe. It requires an active government, an active foreign minister and an active defence minister, but it also requires an active parliament, which is willing to enter into these open-minded discussions, but which at the same time also demonstrates to the extrovert that, through parliamentary cooperation in Europe, we are withdrawing them and discussing the various issues. For me, this means that what the Defence Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee in Parliament are doing now, namely to give priority to work in Europe, is the right way to be at the forefront of this development. I'll end by saying that like many others, I think this is a big day. It's a day of opportunity. I sincerely hope that this ratification process will go quickly and well in Europe, and that it will not create any problems, for those countries that are now on the threshold of becoming members of NATO, deserve it so deeply.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e450	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-11.ana.ud1636e458	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map. Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
