ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e45	From 6 June to 10 June to take part in the Transatlantic Parliamentary Forum, under the auspices of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Almaty, Kazakhstan. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Morten Ørsal Johansen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Morten Ørsal Johansen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Thore A. Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e66	Morten Ørsal Johansen is present and will take the seat. The representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e71	On behalf of May Hansen, Tor Arne Ström, Torny Pedersen, Kenneth Svendsen, Karin S. Woldseth and myself, I would like to propose to give the fast-track ship «Old Finnmarken» a status as a rapid-route museum under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e76	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before considering the current map, the President will propose that the morning meeting continue, if necessary, beyond the scheduled time. 15 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. Otherwise, the president would say that everything depends on how many three-minute posts there are on the first case. It will therefore be completely impossible to say at what time the morning meeting will end. This is said for the sake of those who book airline tickets.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e95	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e106	In this Chamber many decisions have been taken which can certainly be described as «historical». Nor is it too strong to note that the decision the Stortinget will take today by joining the Government's plans to relocate eight state supervision will be incorporated into the range of decisions it is historically suspense of. Several times in the last 40 years, wholehearted attempts have been made to implement comprehensive emigration programmes for state-owned establishments. A number of investigations were carried out and large-scale documents promoted both in the 1960s and 1970s, but then without results. The reasons for the failures were several. Professor Harald Sætren of the University of Bergen, who has studied this emigration history, in his book «Implementing Public Policy» and in recent lectures, pointed to various factors that can explain this. It'll lead too far to go into this. I will be very careful to refer to two of the most central factors that Setren has pointed to: first, the great resistance of a broad coalition of well-organised and strategically favoured stakeholders, and, secondly, the lack of political leadership, that is, the lack of political will and determination. Not unexpectedly, you might say. Today we can see with some satisfaction that we have at least learned something from history. We're about to take a provision that might also be relevant to similar processes in the future. And it's not only about the political determination that may have grown, but also about the fact that you've learned from the way things were handled in the past. That's why I think it's true that if we didn't succeed this time, it could be a long time before someone dares to try again. In the name of justice, it shall also include the fact that several individual institutions have been moved out over the years. We know them, and as far as we can tell, the results have been successful. But in this context, we're talking about major relocation programs. The story of emigration might also teach us one more thing. It is that we should not take a case for granted by making decisions in this Chamber. Here it is enough to point out what happened when, in May 1979, the Stortinget joined the then government's proposal to move 20 institutions out of Oslo, but where, barely two years later, in 1981, a full retreat was struck. The reason was allegedly large-scale protests from the staff of the institutions concerned. Therefore, there is every reason to recall that the implementation phase is also important for the outcome of this case, not just the preparation. Today’s decision does not primarily mean a sentence for a long decision-making process, but a colon, a kind of ‘green light’ for the Government to launch the phase-in of a comprehensive supervisory reform that is about much more than the geographical shift of eight oversight. In a society that is becoming more and more diverse and increasingly based on markets and decentralised governance systems, the role of supervision is becoming increasingly important. The role of supervision is to be correct and quality assurances to the population and to ensure that products and services are safe for consumers and users. In order to make this work optimal, it is necessary to ensure a good framework for the supervisory system. Above all, supervision must be competent and robust and have the necessary professional integrity and legitimacy, both in relation to the population and to the political authorities. In this context, independence is an important keyword — independence within certain limits. Political governance can and must be ensured differently without endangering the professional judgement exercise and its integrity. Surveillance activities must be organised in such a way as to promote an appropriate division of labour between professional supervision and political governance. The large number of new state jobs created in the Oslo area over the last decades, this huge suction that has been and is still in the central east from other parts of the country, is the main reason why, now or never, it had to be taken overall to try at least to start a counter-wave. If this is successful, it will also mean revitalising the environments of competence and strengthening the regions receiving these controls. This will have ring-effects in the next round across the whole district of Norway. However, it has not got the full picture of this broad initiative, which has not realised that it is part of an even greater strategy, namely to modernise, streamline and strengthen public administration. Indeed, the relocation of supervisory institutions provides opportunities to start off with blank papers in a way. Many of the inspections are characterized by long-term progress and represent an inconspicuous and complex structure. We are convinced that this reform will be an important step, which will in the long term contribute to the revitalisation of the supervisory system, also by gaining access to a greater share of the expertise available in the country. Much of it is in other regions. This is the long-term, overall perspective that puts many other issues in the shadow. As the rapporteur of the case, belonging to one of the government parties, I am pleased to note that a large majority are ending up with the Government's plans for the relocation. At the same time, I note that the agreement reached between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party in the Committee provides a good basis for the Government's further work on the renewal of the supervisory system, much in line with the large-scale communication. There should be no concealment that there were tough negotiations with some very difficult in-principal balances. But I want to give credit to the fractions of the two parties for very tidy conduct and not least the willingness to find agreed solutions that eventually led us to the goal. I would also like to thank the Center Party for having been carrying the burden and broken with the Government all the way. I am pleased that we came to a common understanding of what is going on to ensure that employees' interests and rights are respected. This, in our opinion, has been the starting point of the Government all along, but it does not hurt to try to clarify what the different arrangements involve. It is understandable that supervisory staff become alarmed when moving their jobs. Many see no possibility of moving with, even though it is an expressed wish by the Government. From the agreement between the government parties and the two opposition parties, I also mention that the parties agree to establish that the tripartite cooperation will continue in the new Labour Inspectorate. Furthermore, we agree that we would ensure the necessary financial resources for supervision both in the transition phase and in the long term. We consider this a prerequisite for developing strong and robust supervision. Including as part of the agreement, the removal and conversion costs shall be made visible on their own budget line, so that these more temporary expenditures shall not be charged to the operational budgets of the supervision. Then I also owe it to the representatives of the Progress Party in the Committee to say that even if they did not participate in the negotiations on an agreement because they early decided to go mainly towards relocation, they helped to strengthen the majority on several points in support of the Government's policy for the necessary quality improvement of the supervisory function. This is a major day for the Government and Government parties: full support for the plans for the relocation of eight oversight posts to a total of 900 jobs, and to a large extent also for the plans for a quality reform of the supervisory system. However, one man shall be highlighted in this context, the Council of State Victor D. Norman. He remains standing as the architect behind the plans and the one who has brought this reform forward. I have been browsing a lot in the pile of newspaper clippings from the last six months. It could have been a lot to say about what was said and written. There's no room for that. But State Council Victor D. Norman has been ranked as a pillar in the middle of the storm. We will congratulate both the Government and him! Finally, a small appeal to all of us. In this fight, there have been strong confrontations between Oslo and the rest of the country. In a way, it's understandable. This affects many individuals and families. I hope, however, you can see that we have tried to safeguard their interests as well as possible. I also hope that it helps to understand the need for us, as politically responsible authorities, to take some overall political action from time to time to prevent undesirable developments affecting the whole country. This is about seeing the need to strengthen also the regions outside Oslo. Neither can the Oslo people see that this movement stream continues without any setbacks. Let us therefore concentrate on making the somewhat worn-out slogan 'By and Land', not man-to-man, but 'hand-in-hand'.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e150	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e153	As I have understood the Government and government parties in this matter, it has been assumed that you want the most independent, professional supervision possible. You probably end up with the opposite. The reason for moving out is, according to many articles that have been made, that you should have independence and professional competence. We agree with the Government's desire for a clear distinction between professional supervision and political authority. We believe it would be beneficial if this were tightened up in the right of politicians to review decisions in too many individual cases. But after the agreement with the Workers' Party and SV, this perspective is almost gone. You move supervision, but you hardly get more independence. How will the representative comment on this? Wasn't this the main reason for the move?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e160	Independence was one of the main reasons why this communication was presented. As I underlined in my article, we view this as a whole. Supervision is designed for relocation, precisely because they do not need the proximity of the general political authorities needed by many other governmental bodies. By moving them out, we will also be able to strengthen our skills, because we think there are important competences elsewhere in the country. The agreement that was concluded was a necessity to get this whole package through. It is clear that there has been a ta and gi process, which also means that the implementation of the proposed appeal procedure will be postponed, at least for a while. In addition, there is a link to the main features of the notification, which involves a process against greater independence. Well, notice, independence has to be viewed as almost an ideal, a goal that we're going to try to work towards. Important in-principal steps have been taken in this Communication which provides the basis for such a process. In the different supervisory areas, Stortinget will now come up with legislative proposals and other issues that will address this. In some areas, we also have independent supervision. [[President clubs]] I have not understood it so that there is a fundamental resistance in the parties with which we have cooperated. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e169	We're running out of time. The President insists that we try to respect the speaking time and the President's club.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e172	The representative Lånker talked a lot about sucking into Oslo as something extremely negative and something that needs to be turned around. Has it struck the representative Lånke that, in fact, most of those who have moved to Oslo have done it of their own free will, and have they done it because they want to, because they actually think Oslo is a good city to live in? Oslo was, for example, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking you very much for your excellent report. So you don't move to Oslo just because it's where you get a job. I want to ask the representative Långer if he thinks it's okay that those who want to live in Oslo, those who thrive in this city, now will no longer be allowed to do so, because you move all the jobs out of Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e179	The representative will deal with a large theme. Of course, people who want to live in Oslo will be allowed to do so. No one has intended to impose a removal obligation in this country. We've never had that. The problem is that, over decades — throughout the post-war period and in fact before — there has been a steady flow from the country into Oslo, which has led to the decline of many districts and regions. Now we want to take an overall approach to try to reverse that development. I remind you that almost every day there are reports of job closures in District Norway. Yesterday the message came that more than 200 jobs are being closed as a result of Marine Harvest being flagged out of the country. It affects, among others: 150 inhabitants in a municipality in my county. It has enormous ring-effects. The problem is that this is happening all the time, and it drains the districts of the settlement base that is so important. This is what we want to turn around.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e186	I perceive that Loan in his answer is completely flat and admits that one has sacrificed the independence that should be the main argument for moving, on the altar to get with the Workers' Party and SV on the move. It's a nice and easy clarification to get. We're not getting any more independent supervision, and politicians are still going to get involved in detail. Another question I could imagine asking Loan concerns something that he mentioned in his article on temporary costs, that the removal costs were actually temporary costs. It's a truth with many modifications. In fact, both the Competition Authority and the Air Safety Authority will have significantly greater costs, in particular for travel in relation to the supervisory objects, as a result of this relocation. I'm asking Loan to confirm it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e193	I do not buy the claim from the representative Knudsen that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have been flattened. When we get back the different legislative proposals in this room, we will see that we have taken important steps towards greater independence. In terms of so-called temporary costs, I guess I guess I suggested that this is more or less temporary costs, and it's clear that it is. When it comes to moving, we think first and foremost about the costs of moving to other parts of the country. It is clear that there will also be removal costs later, and not least travel expenses. I can't confirm that they will necessarily get higher. Maybe they'll get a little higher somewhere, but I also think -- as the message points out, and as it's been prepared in these rounds we've had -- that much of the journey can be compensated by other meetings. It has not been given that these increased travel costs become formidable. But even if something had to happen, we have to afford it to get another win.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e201	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e204	In the public debate, the State Supervisory Notice has almost been perceived as a removal message. It's not. This is far more than a geographical location of different supervision. Yes, I would say it so strongly that the most important thing in this communication was that it was political -- a change in the way we have organized ourselves in order to have some tools to govern the society we want, less political governance, less the ability to reverse decisions in the different supervisory systems and a higher threshold to intervene in things that the political authorities might seem to be important. Time and again, we experience that some social problems arise in the media and the public, as well as in enquiries with us. But we're powerless when it comes to doing something about it, because we've renounced – completely voluntary – the tools we've had to do something with the problems. Therefore, the most important thing for the Workers' Party when we went into the examination of the Supervisory Communication was to ensure that the result was not a politically impaired governance. We think it's all right and great that you have clear lines between department and supervision. We think it is great that, as far as possible, there are clear distinctions between professional and political assessments. But we believe that there must be a political opportunity to intervene and decide on issues of social importance – not just opportunity, but the threshold for doing so must not be insurmountable. In addition, I would like to add that the distinction between politics and subjects is often very unclear. Political judgement is often at the bottom of some professional decisions. My view and the view of the Labour Party is that political judgement should be carried out as far as possible by people who have some direct or indirect responsibility towards voters through elections – people who can be exchanged and who are politically accountable to the population. That is why it was important for the Workers' Party to maintain political governance. One of the questions concerned the department's right of instruction in relation to supervision. In practice, the right of instruction is used very little. In the Competition Authority, for example: has not been used for a single time since we were given a new competition law in 1993. On the other hand, the review process has been an important management tool. At fairly regular intervals, the Ministry makes decisions that have been taken by supervision following a complaint. It gives a guiding signal to the supervision of subsequent decisions and is thus an important policy governance tool. There may be cases where there is a need to take greater and broader policy considerations than that underlying the individual specific laws of the different supervisory bodies. That's where we've had full penetration. We keep the complaint handling and the political governance in it, unabated, as it is today. Another important area for us was to avoid privatisation and competitive outsourcing. There we have also received good wording. The supervisory authority and the public responsibility are not weakened. The government has largely joined the organisational structures of the reorganisation, merger, division, etc. We're in the sense that we need to investigate the division of the Oil Directorate, and we hope the department follows it up. We have also had one important change, namely that the Labour Inspectorate should continue to cooperate on a tripartite basis at a strategic level. It doesn't necessarily have to be on the board, but at a strategic level – and I hope the Council of State can confirm that the work on it is in full swing. So to the move. Moving and locating are always at odds in this room. Formally, the Government could have made that decision itself, there is nothing to suggest that you have to go to the Stortinge to determine where these inspections are to be located, it is up to the Government to decide. When it was still added to the Stortinget, there were two things that were absolutely essential to the Workers' Party. One was that the economy of such a process of moving has to be secured. We could not risk the operational budgets of the supervision that would have to pay the costs of relocation and conversion through the removal process and afterwards. It has to be covered separately, so that we have as strong supervision during and after the move as before. We've had an impact on that. So the employees' rights. No one should be forced to move. The obligation to move has to be made real, so that you can choose to stay if you want. That's what current administrative practices are, and we expect to be followed up, so that anyone who chooses to stay in Oslo will be offered other government work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e223	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e226	In the media debate that has been on this matter, the Labour Party politicians have expressed considerable scepticism about the notification, and in some newspaper headlines have even raised the issue of sending it back to the Government, given that it was very incomplete and poor. In addition, the committee has asked a number of critical questions to which very thin answers have been given. But now, all of a sudden, everything's okay. Now you're for all the moves. Where is the consideration of employees? Where is the consideration of the professional that many have raised a index finger? Where is the economy taken into account? Well, it's possible you haven't taken that into account. But what's the amazing thing you've gotten through this avalanche? Why have you entered into this agreement, and what's so good about it? Is it just that you have broken the government's idea of independence in supervision, which is why the Workers' Party is now voting for the move?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e233	It is quite right, as the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen describes, that we have made significant changes in the political course of the management and organisation of supervision, just as the case-rapporteur also described it in his main statement. Of course, the Workers' Party is very pleased with this. It was important to us, and as we saw, this supervisory message was as much a political message as a removal message. So that's where, in my opinion, we've had a very good breakthrough. The representative Lånker said this was a postponement. In that case, there will be a postponement of the 2005 elections, so the voters will then be able to decide whether to continue to have the political instruments we have today or whether to weaken them. With regard to the message on the move side, we thought there were thin issues in some areas. It was poorly investigated what the costs would be in each case, and we have asked some questions about that. What we are satisfied with is that we have received a guarantee and a majority in order to cover the removal and conversion costs separately, not to be charged... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e242	The representative Geske now said that the Workers' Party has made significant political changes to the suspension of the supervisory notice. However, Mr Lånke said in a reply that when the laws of individual supervision gradually come back to the Stortinget, important steps have been taken towards independence of supervision. Does this mean that those who vote in favour of this relocation also vote in favour of a severe deregulation of the same supervision? And then a question related to the human factor by the process that lies behind us. When people lose their jobs in Oslo and around the country, press reports that this has been celebrated with champagne in other parts of the country. What kind of human vision is this? And are such things really necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e249	It's a little unusual to move the debate from group meetings into the main hall, but now let it go. Firstly, it is true, as the representative Lånke says, that with regard to the right of instructions to supervision, it is clear that individual specific laws can be amended. There is nothing in the majority comments that prevents it. But what was my point was that the right of instruction was used so as not to say at all. In the field of competition surveillance, it has not been used for 10 years. It is not where the political influence has been before the Council of State; it has been under review. In addition, the Council of State may ask a supervisory body to address specific issues on the basis of wishes and needs, so that political governance is, in fact, unbridled as it is today. And we're very pleased with that. As far as human considerations are concerned, it is equally serious to lose your job whether you live in Oslo, Trondheim, Hitra or Bodø. Therefore, it has been essential for us to get solutions for the employees in Oslo, which means that everyone can say no to move with the load, and still be guaranteed a job. I don't think there's anyone else else in Norway who's been given such a... guarantee of continued work in the event of a reorganization. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e260	The Directorate of Labour Inspectorate is now being moved to Trondheim. It's the political part, it's the part that's responsible and does the tripartite cooperation. The supervision is, of course, carried out independently of all the regional and local offices of the Labour Inspectorate. The lo has been rattling. They say that the directorate of the Labour Inspectorate is now moving to Trondheim, which significantly weakens tripartite cooperation. After all, the working party has grown on the labour movement. Trond Giske himself has allied himself with and gained support from the work movement look and often. Then my question is: is Trond Giske so politically naive about the right-hand side's strategy in relation to tripartite cooperation, that he is willing to sacrifice the strength of this cooperation to get the directorate to his own constituency?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e267	It seems to be a hot morning.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e270	It would have been much clearer if the Workers' Party had a line on the Workers' Party and SV on SV, rather than that we have it on the cross, then it becomes a little confusing. Of course, it is the full rights of the Oslo representatives not only to fight, but to fight for the jobs that are in Oslo. I understand. But I want to say that what we've gotten into the committee in terms of guarantees for employees, by staying in Oslo, and continuing to have government work, surpasses most of what people experience in conversions anywhere else in the country. Jobs are being laid down in many places. It's just as bad to lose your job wherever you live. We have made sure that in this case no one is going to lose the job, on the contrary, one should be guaranteed continued state activity, still state work in Oslo. I did not fully understand the question in relation to the Labour Inspectorate. Does the representative Heikki Holmås really think that it is not possible to run a work-life monitor just as well in Trondheim? Does he believe that it is not possible to achieve tripartite cooperation between trade unions, employers and public authorities if this is located in Trondheim? Is that only possible in Oslo? In that case, I think we have a completely different view of district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e279	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e283	The treatment of the public oversight notification is an important step in the modernisation of the public sector. The notification provides the overall guidance on how to organise and operate supervision in Norway in the future. In a modern society, where ever greater demands for flexibility and conversion are being made, we see that public authorities need to change their tools of governance towards decentralised and more overarching approaches where general rules provide guidance on which frameworks apply. In this picture, supervisory tasks change, although many of the objectives are set. The oversight of the future must be capable of fulfilling the roles of the control body, the corrective, the guide and the guarantor of safety and quality. This is a very demanding task and requires precisely the in-depth review of the entire area of oversight to which the notification relates. Set with Right-Eye promises the message very well. The right has, over many years, wanted the developments we are now seeing described in the communication. For the Right, it is an important objective that official control bodies, as they are, should be practically easy to deal with – that their activities should be predictable, that the decisions they take should be objectively justified on a professional basis, and, not least, that public governance should be made clear. These conditions are precisely what the message is about. The forthcoming review of the area of supervision shall contribute to the necessary clarification of the role, in relation to the specific tasks to be undertaken or the responsibilities of each supervisory body. The legitimacy of supervision shall be strengthened by a targeted effort to ensure high and long-term oversight competence, to increase their independence and to make the criteria for the professional balances on the basis of which individual supervisory decisions are based. It shall not be put under the chair that the Right would have liked to see the interception of the Government's commanding authority and the creation of independent complaints as a principle for further work on the organisation of supervision. It had given a clear signal and was a clear indication of the transition to the modern supervisory role. However, the right is satisfied with the signals that have come from a clear majority in this Chamber. There is room for the main political course of the Government to add, and we see a clarification in the whole picture in relation to clear distinctions between the politically and professionally motivated. The right view is that the message’s signals to industry are particularly positive. The time should be over in which the supervision was considered to be merely a haemshoe. The future supervision shall be characterised by a solution-oriented rather than a prohibition and mandatory approach. An active mentoring role is an important step in creating better chemistry with business and increased service awareness in supervision. An efficient public sector, with predictability and rapid processing as the rule, is a prerequisite for a dynamic business with a high capacity for transitions and start-ups. A significant part of the attention in this case has been devoted to the issues of moving eight supervision out of Oslo. Right, it's important, and right, that the state makes use of competence with the whole country as a battlefield. This strengthens professional environments in several parts of the country and will contribute to greater stability in the labour force of individual enterprises. In the actual situation of relocation, it is natural that difficult choices arise for many employees. The question of moving is, of course, a matter for whole families, who also have to move with. This may involve difficult balances and uplifting situations for the individual. I am pleased that we have come up with very modest arrangements that rarely provide for employees' opportunities, whether they move with them or they choose to seek other work in Oslo. Moving issues have been difficult. When the Storting now gives its support to this, it is because the Government has shown determination and action through the notification. Now the work begins with the individual supervision. It's Right Hope, and expectation, that this is going to be creative and rewarding processes. This is an important work in which we have great expectations of good results. And we want the government and the overseers to be happy with the work!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e317	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e320	I'm afraid this is becoming a habit, and I'm not going to stop for now! In his post, Trond Giste guaranteed the employees work, no one would be forced to move, and one should be sure that one could continue working in the state in connection with, among other things. waiting pay schemes, etc. In the 2003 budget agreement, the contracting partners say that one should avoid waiting wages and over to final packages, etc. What, then, do these two agreements, which are directly contrary to each other, say about the Right as a contractual partner? Is it so that this agreement with the Workers' Party and SV today is as small a value as the one you did with the Advance Party in winter, i.e. not much more than the paper it's written on?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e327	The concrete organisation of the supervision to be moved out, in and separately by more supervision, will be restored by the Government. Thus, it will be in future budgets that these issues should be resolved, and there is a clear premise that the Government will find ways to deal with them. I cannot see that it would be contrary to the agreements underpinning the budget from which we are working.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e332	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The next speaker is Ulf Erik Knudsen, to an ordinary post in 10 minutes – preferably no more!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e337	If there was a comment on future treminutes, we can discuss it a little later! The progress party is in no way satisfied with this message. We believe it is characterised by the wrong focus, by the lack of investigation in terms of costs, and poor thought-out organisational solutions. It has been assumed that there is a desire for the most independent and professional supervision – at a reasonable cost. And you probably end up with the opposite. As I said in the change of line with case rapporteur Lånke, the Progress Party agrees with the Government in the desire for a clear distinction between professional supervision and political authority. We believe it would be beneficial to tighten up the right of politicians to review decisions in too many individual cases. But after the agreement with the Workers' Party and SV, this perspective is almost out of line. You move a lot of supervision, but there'll hardly be any more independence from it. Was it not independence that was just the government's goal with the move? Isn't that exactly why you had to move? The Party wishes to ensure that inspections are organised and administratively organised to the greatest extent possible. We do not want independent complaints subjects set up for groups of supervisors, as proposed in the communication, but we believe that there should be separate complaints subjects for each supervision, so as to ensure that the candidates have a professional competence. We also express in our remarks that we are concerned about an increasing emphasis on internal control of the supervisory objects. This is actually of the good, but can lead to increased paper mills for private traders, which for years have drowned in a formidable form field. We therefore want to focus on the fact that the new working methods should not lead to a new unmanageable form fields. We also support the Communication’s views that production and supervisory activities need to be properly distinguished. However, we feel that the practical consequences of these comments are not taken, and we are therefore promoting a concrete proposal in this area. It appears to be a significant weakness that the notification does not discuss the need for oversight in new areas, in addition to those mentioned in the notification. We therefore propose investigating the establishment of child protection, police surveillance, supervision of municipal services and school supervision — tasks that we believe are over-ripe for better control. At the heart of the debate on this issue are the proposals for the transfer of a number of supervision. The Party has made a careful and individual assessment of the individual proposals. We believe that the main principle when talking about moving must be whether this is purely professionally sound, as well as that there is a need to place high emphasis on diet-benefit assessments. In this context, we have reached six clear conclusions. In most cases: 1st@item: inlistbox Moving weakens access to competent labour.2. It weakens access to professional environments.3. It provides high removal costs and increased operating costs, in particular for travel.4. It throws many Oslo families out in the open or an uncertain future.5. It weakens the effectiveness of supervision in relation to the distance from its supervisory objects.6. It does not provide continuity in the work of supervision. We've done statistics on that up to 90 pst. by the professional staff will stop. The point of progress has noticed that the bulk of the population, i.e. all but us, in this communication has provided for a new type of district policy. This is based on the fact that, in order to achieve the best overall use of resources in the country, some government functions need to be located widely. The extent to which the overall social benefits relate to the costs of such relocations is not supported by the Communication. We believe this is bad district policy, and we think it is bad capital policy. I have said that before in this room, and I say it again: there will be no more jobs moving them around on the map – and especially when they are moved to places where unemployment is in line with the unemployment rate in the capital. One thing that we also have to draw out is the big disagreement about what the removal costs will be. The lowest estimates from the Government are 500000 kroner per month. employment, while individual supervision and employee organisations have estimated costs per person. working time from 800000 SEK to more than 2 million. kr. Overall, it seems clear that this is a bill of billions — a not insignificant amount at a time when the government warns against increased use of money. And that's exactly what's central when we're going to negotiate the revised national budget. So some specific comments about the individual supervision. As far as the Labour Inspectorate is concerned, it is proposed to Trondheim. In reality, there is a shift of the old Labour Inspectorate. We have seen that supervision has had a very active partnership with the social partners, trade unions, business organisations, employment organisations, etc., and that it is the central pillar of their work. We think this will be complicated if we move this oversight out of the capital and away from those who are the central partners. With regard to postal and telecommunications oversight and air traffic control, these have very important control and oversight tasks in establishments that are vital to Norway. As far as we have been able to see, there have never been any claims that the location of these inspections should not be appropriate. We also see major problems with, for example: the transfer of the Post and Telecommunications Authority to the ‘Agderbyen’, which it is called. We are not sure if it is possible to find the right people, among other things. in telecommunications lawyers, who can serve this area. And we also see that the Municipality of Bodø, as far as the Air Safety Authority is concerned, writes in its report to Stortinget that ‘the Air Safety Authority in Bodø must recruit its employees nationally’. So, in good Norwegian, you don't have the people in the area. As far as postal and telecommunications supervision is concerned, there is also another area in which we should focus, and it is the fact that the industry as a whole has strongly warned the Storting against a move. In this sector, there are major challenges in the coming years, among other things. in the context of the introduction of new EU directives, and there is a need for monitoring at all times to be 100 pst. up and go. And it is not so far in the debate that has claimed that there will be no professional problems at least in a transitional phase in relation to these inspections. As far as maritime transport is concerned, the Progress Party believes that Haugesund is an excellent city in this area. But we have seen that representatives of the industry are very sceptical and believe that the Maritime Directorate should still be in Oslo. We follow that vision. We also have a positive view of Bergen. There is an excellent professional environment in Bergen, among others. built up by the institution to which the Council of State has had a connection, and I believe that Bergen can have an excellent environment of competence. But what is our decisive point of view in this assessment is that the actual supervisory work is mainly done in the Oslo district, and that there will be enormous travel costs and much worse contact with the environments to be controlled if you move. Finally, as far as media surveillance is concerned, Fredrikstad is not exactly a place very far from Oslo to move to, but we are very sceptical about the merger of ownership supervision, media management and film surveillance for a new supervision, and believe that therefore one should reject that part of the case. Finally, a few words about voting. I would like to take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote, but at the same time I would like to ask for separate voting on the individual local elections. In some cases, our district representatives will not follow our main conclusion. I also have a feeling that there may be some Oslo representatives who might want to vote in favour of our proposals, so I would like to ask for a separate vote on the proposals No. 5-10.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e394	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e399	The representative Knudsen uses his post to ventilate a wide range of concerns regarding the relocation of supervision. He knows well that very many of the claims made have been put to shame by past emigration. Otherwise, I will stop a bit at the very unusually low profile of the Advance Party from the beginning of this oversight case. They quickly decided that they would not go in for the removal of supervision, and then we have heard very little about them. It's unusual to be the Progress Party. Today, Knudsen criticises the government parties to lay down the ground for the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. I just want to ask the representative Knudsen: what has the Progress Party made of constructive recordings in addition to criticising the Government's announcement to be deficient in all aspects of achieving a constructive outcome? I want to ask you, what is the reason for the very low profile of the Progress Party? One is left with a distressing feeling that in this case it has been wise to speak with a low voice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e408	The progress party in this room has been accused of being too strange, but we have – I think – never been accused of keeping a low profile. I can promise the representative Lånke that we have been in every radio debate and every newspaper interview, etc. as it has been possible to be involved, and in which the journalists have wanted us, and we have in no way any bad conscience for any of our positions on this matter. We have also had a very thorough internal debate in the Progress Party. Even the board of every county has been given an opinion on this matter, and there has been a very interesting debate also in our big group, which has had the matter discussed in three large group meetings. In terms of lack of constructive input, I don't think Lånke has taken the trouble to read our actual comments, where we have a number of constructive recordings, among other things. in relation to complaints bodies, proposals for new supervision, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e417	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e420	This has not been a simple message to process. There have been many difficult reasons to take — all very important individually, and partly conflicting interests. It is the supervisory function of supervision, it is the employees and their rights, and there are jobs in the regions, and it is the use of competences throughout the country. The Council of State should have put forward this matter of supervision as a big message first, with a broad consultation process in progress, when he first decided to present it to the Stortinget, and not as it has been done in this case: first, the conclusion is presented with bragging and bram, then a big message is promoted to the Stortinget that has not been at the hearing and where the employees have not been in the process. The Ministry of Labour and Administration and the Council of State Norman has not followed his own investigation instructions properly in this message. The impact on users, employment and business and organisations has not been established either. Among other things, the numbering material of the removal costs used by the Ministry is significantly lower than all the inspections obtained on the basis of their own calculations. Decision-making in the future should be based on a more thorough and comprehensive impact assessment of professional, economic, social and human factors on such comprehensive issues as these. The government has chosen to collect several of the state oversight and supervisory tasks in one removal process. The supervisory tasks of individual supervision are highly specialised and there is international cooperation and different rules to take into account. Now when one committee in Stortinget is going to deal with all of these inspections together, we have of course cooperated with the individual trade unions in our own party. However, I am not sure that this case would have the same outcome if each supervision had been dealt with in the Grand Committee with budgetary responsibilities and competence for each supervision. The SV and several of the parties on the Stortinget have expressed their policy of helping to move government jobs into the districts. It has many good and partly historical reasons. Regions and districts have lost a wide range of important jobs due, inter alia, to: structuralisation, reorganisation, closures and redundancies, both in the Post and Telenor and elsewhere. I now mention this as a hindrance, which many of us who are elected from all over the country have in memory. There is a great need to fill different jobs in the regions and districts. It can contribute to optimism, take advantage of the expertise available there, and attract other businesses. Therefore, SV is positive, and therefore SV is going for this relocation. It is likely that these political experiences have been used by the State Council of Victor Norman and the Government when they have chosen the strategy of dealing with all supervision together. But what is also the reality is that many state jobs have been transferred to Oslo during this period, and new state jobs have also been created in Oslo. But this is a little comfort to all the 900 employees in the state supervision who in a sudden and unacceptable way were told that their jobs were intended elsewhere in the country. Most of us have many important links to our workplace. It's the source of income, and it's a place where we spend a lot of our resources and a lot of our time. Much of the life base disappears when the workplace disappears. That's why it was important for us in the Socialist Left Party, when there was a majority in favour of relocation, to secure the employees' rights to a new job, and waiting wages for those who were not offered a new job until the supervision begins their moving process. Similarly important for the Socialist Left Party, it has been to ensure the supervisory function in each supervision both in general and in particular in the move process. It is a very important social function that the supervision carries out. And it's serious if the oversight function isn't maintained as today in the period of the move. Therefore, the majority of an agreement has agreed that the Government will have to make sufficient contributions so that the costs of moving, recruiting employees and other costs of the removal process are covered outside the ordinary operating budget of the individual supervision and are charged separately from normal operating costs. The Government and the Socialist Left Party have different views on the material aspects of the functions and governance of supervision. The government is keen to deregulate and privatise much of its supervisory activities by means of standardisation and accreditation systems and by intercepting political governance. In the sectors that are not yet market-regulated, the Government wants to organise the supervision to adapt them to the future market without having the impact determined in the notification. Nor has it been assessed to what extent these proposals are feasible, whether they are beneficial to supervisory activities and whether they can have negative consequences. The Socialist Left believes, however, that it is of great social importance that we maintain a public oversight system that allows for political intervention where it is of great social importance. The County Council of Norman now needs to prepare an impact assessment for each supervision, where they are dealt with individually, analysed and assessed in a consistent manner in relation to professional, economic, social and human factors. In the agreement that underlies this position we are now debating, there are clear limits to how far the Government can go in depriving the supervision and supervisory functions of political authority. The Socialist Left Party is pleased that we have done this in the agreement. But that's not a good feeling we're left with. Once the agreement has been concluded, the Council of State and our spokesman have conflicting conclusions when they comment on the agreement. We are pleased that workers' rights have been respected and that political governance has been maintained, but the Council of State is pleased that supervision is now finally released. The last word is hardly said in this case. We have been shown that the employees of state supervision have a good and close relationship with their jobs and duties. In this process, we have cooperated well with them at all levels – professionally, in relation to the supervisory functions and also in relation to the rights of employees. Therefore, I hope that the Department and the Council of State Norman have learned that in other contexts efforts should be made to achieve a better process in closer cooperation with the employees than has been done in the work on this supervisory communication. It had earned competent supervisory staff, and it is necessary to ensure that the State also in future has competent staff who leave a little of the soul in their daily activities. The Socialist Left Party will follow the further process closely, both in relation to the treatment of non-movers and those with whom they move. We also want to keep in touch with the supervisory authorities to ensure that the supervision functions in a professional manner in relation to laws and regulations. Supervision has such an important social function that we need to be sure that it works and ensures safety. The Ministry must report and evaluate this process in order to draw lessons that may be useful in the future. There are many good arguments for moving government jobs out of Oslo. There are even more good reasons to think about how to create new state jobs. What has been difficult in this matter is how it has been treated. Victor Norman said in his presentation – From word to action – two important things that I fully agreed with him on. It gave me a hope. One of his intermediate objectives in order to achieve an efficient public sector was to introduce requirements for total cost calculations in case of major conversions. Total cost calculations will make the effect visible and make decision-makers aware. This was something that gave me hope that in the future we would release very costly changes and improvements in efficiency in the public sector. The next thing he said was that modernisation in the public sector is impossible if not those who work there are motivated and involved in the process. A key prerequisite for a better public sector is therefore a human resources policy that is motivating. Unfortunately, employees have not been involved in this process, and of course they are not motivated. But the Council of State has broken with what he was very concerned about in his presentation, and which he put in as a prerequisite to succeeding in an efficient public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e460	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e463	It was touching to hear the representative May Hansen express so much concern for public employees. It went just so far that she takes from 900 people at work, takes from 900 families at work and maybe 900 partners of the income they have seen as relatively safe. So those who are now going to put these checks in Oslo and move them elsewhere are still going to say that Oslo has a lot of public jobs in particular. Now I'm going to ask May Hansen concretely: who is it of these cities of Bodø, Trondheim, Bergen and Oslo that have the most public jobs? Is Oslo on top or are they on the bottom?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e470	I didn't say that Oslo had a special number of government employees. I said it's an important policy to move state jobs out of Oslo to get a bloom in the districts. At the same time, I said that government jobs have moved into Oslo during this period. In the committee, we have had several treatments – regional child protection offices and various other state jobs have moved to Oslo during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e477	President! Can I get the floor for a manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e484	The president has doubts that it is, but okay. - Very short!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e487	It has to be very short. The misunderstanding is that 2001 is used in relation to the number of jobs that came to Oslo and how many were moved from Oslo. So the figures are that in 2001 Oslo lost 5,200 public jobs, and got 1,100 – the difference is formidable!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e494	I must say it is with great amazement I have heard from the Socialist Left Party and the representative of May Hansen's posts. So now we've negotiated an agreement that's clear and clear. In her statement, she uncovers the entire basis on which this agreement is based. It is possible that SV needs to speak with at least two tongues, but there are limits! You have to be aware of the basis of the agreement you have entered into. If it is that it is not proper to deal with a matter like this, yes, then you cannot sit down and negotiate for weeks and actually put your name under an agreement. I have to ask SV: is it that they are on the agreement with the government parties? And is it that SV is for or against the relocation of supervision?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e505	The President will now give Hansen another 10 seconds if she needs to answer what Kjästad thought was a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e508	SV stands for the appointment. We also stand for emigration, I said that quite clearly. What I've criticized in my post is the process we've been through. SV believes that with this agreement we have managed to achieve a better content and a significant change in the political anchoring. We have also created better conditions for the employees, and we have achieved that the conversion costs are now outside the budget of each supervision. We believe that this message is a significant improvement. We believe that much of the message went on the political content. It's not just about a relocation, it's also about the political content and the political anchoring. We are still on this agreement, and believe that it has improved by our participation in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e517	SV is traditionally in its rhetoric very concerned with stifling the market forces, these terrible capitalists who are running with us consumers, but obviously not in this matter. With regard to the transfer of postal and telecommunications supervision, a single industry has been moving towards the move, with reference to the major upheavals and the very difficult competitive conditions that exist in the sector, particularly with one major dominant player, and an up-to-date supervision is needed to deal with this. Obviously, you get a professional problem in this area when you reach 90 pst. ends. So my question to SV is, how can it be that we are now choosing to let market forces play freely in the postal and telecommunications sectors, which are so important to each individual consumer in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e527	I fully agree with the representative of the Progress Party that the consumer is important, very important, in this matter. But I want to say it again: there was a majority for this emigration without our votes. What has been important for SV, as I have said before, is to bring in the consumer perspective, to contract with the employees, to keep the total costs out of the budget of each supervision, and it is very important for the supervisory function to function along the way. We therefore believe it has been very important that SV has been involved in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e536	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e539	Statistics can be used for so many purposes. Kjestad claimed in its reply that Oslo lost 5,200 public jobs in 2001. This was due only to one thing: exemption — not closure — by public institutions. The central administration has grown. It is short and well as simple as the fact that those working in exempted institutions are no longer in the statistics on government employees but in the statistics on employees in enterprises. This debate has become more about the relocation of state institutions than about supervision. My post will also be about that. But let me say to the debate on the independence of supervision: in my opinion, that independence will only be ensured at the moment of the demarcation of the government's commanding authority, as the communication facilitates. That part must be followed up in the form of a proposal which will be promoted by the Stortinget at a later stage, as facilitated. On the part of the Centre Party, the delocalisation of state jobs became a priority area in the debate on the Declaration of Adults, the basis of the work of the Centre Government. That there was another government council other than me, and another government than the one I participated in, who managed to take the first big promise in relation to the important job this is, I take with heart. Both I and the Center Party live well with it. And I want to take the opportunity to congratulate the Council of State on the result. I see today's decisions as very important in terms of providing other parts of the country with important skills jobs in the state sector. This will underpin the potential for developments in services where supervision is now located, which is positive in terms of building the country as a whole and in terms of developing knowledge environments in areas other than supervision. The "spin-off" effects we've seen in Oslo most of all, and we'll be sure to see them where the surveillance is now being located. Despite the recent strategy of several governments to localise new government jobs outside Oslo, the growth in the number of government jobs – mainly in the central administration – has nevertheless been much stronger in Oslo than in the rest of the country combined. The strong centralization of the Oslo region that we've seen in recent years, no one can see themselves serving to continue. That is why, in my opinion, it is necessary to go further. We don't have to settle down on what's now done. I would therefore recommend to the Council of State to include a report which was submitted by his own department in February 2000, in cooperation with the Ministry of Local Affairs. It is called ‘Decentralisation and ICT’. If there are no more copies of it, the Council of State may obtain my loan. This calls for relocation, not by institutions, but by functions, which means that it is possible to decentralise government tasks to smaller places, for example. to the regional centres. It is a form of emigration that can be made more widely in the context of natural departure, and thus will not affect employees in the same way as we have seen in the emigration of major institutions. I have no difficulty at all in understanding the despair that employees feel about the job being moved. No one has been cancelled – it is important to bring it – but the workplace is being moved. One has to decide whether to move with, with the implications this has in relation to family, friends, housing investments, etc. We all need to understand that. Unfortunately, this is a situation that has been very many in recent years, both in the private and public sectors. In recent years, we have moved and reorganized state agencies at a great pace: Customs, Police, Aetat, Equation, Earth Shift, Post, Telecommunications, Defence – Thousands of employees are affected in some way, either by rationalization or by the relocation of jobs. For a representative from North Norway, it must be allowed to say – with all due respect for those affected in Oslo: It is bad for them, but it is no better to move from Harstad to Narvik or from Harstad to Kautokeino – as decided upon in connection with the move of the Food Authority – than to move from Oslo to Stavanger. It is important to safeguard the rights of employees wherever they live and wherever they have to move. It is a responsibility of the State that the employer has. We must take that responsibility seriously. Marit Nybakk asked for the human vision of those who celebrated with champagne when employees in Oslo lost their jobs. This is wrong. There was no one celebrating with champagne because someone lost their job in Oslo. First, what was celebrated was an important principle decision in relation to relocation, which it is entirely in place to be taken, and second, a location to a community where you need it. In exactly the same way it was celebrated in Kautokeino that the Food Agency was moved from Harstad to Kautokeino. Where was Marit Nybakk with his human vision and care for the employees who had to move from Harstad to Kautokeino – when that happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e560	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e563	The representative, Mr Enoksen, is concerned with building skills and using the competence of the whole country. That's a great goal. But what should a person really do with the competence that's left unused in Oslo? Are today's supervisory staff to be re-trained to other jobs, while at the same time being trained new ones in the jobs for which they are already specialised and trained? Does Enoxsen think that this is a good use of competence, and that it is along the lines of development of competence in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e570	Let me tell you about a case from my nearest neighborhood for a few years ago. Telenor moved an billing department from Andøya to Oslo, because they wanted to co-locate. The employees were offered to move with. One of the nine employees moved. Her job was to train eight new employees in Oslo. This has happened before. It's going to happen again. It's a conversion cost that the state has taken in a lot of contexts, whether it's state agencies, private companies or whatever it might be. But it's actually good to live in Stavanger, it's good to live in Bodø. I see that, as I said in my main post – and that is what I stand by – there are heavy burdens for the employees who are going to make that decision. But I think that after some time, those who choose to stay in Oslo will have a meaningful job, where they get to use their skills, and those who choose to move will see that they have moved to a place where it's good to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e577	Let me first tell my good friend Odd Roger Enoksen that I was among those who fought most in the Workers' Party group to prevent the Food Authority from moving from Harstad to Kautokeino, and we also managed to get a majority for it. The working party voted against it as well in this room as it is known. It brings me to a more general question: Do we solve the employment problems in the country by moving jobs from one big city to another? Isn't it by creating new jobs that we're moving in Norway, that we can use all of Norway, and that we get the wheels going? I want to use this line to stress that in terms of the number of public sector employees in the various major cities in Norway, Bodø has 45.9 pst., Trondheim has 40.6 pst., Bergen has 39.2 pst. And Oslo has 37,2 pst. Is it really Oslo that has the highest concentration of state jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e586	It is reasonable that in a city with 30,000 inhabitants, a large college across the Nordic region will be located and in large parts of other counties will represent a large proportion of government employees in that region. I said deliberately the central administration and the jobs that are just linked to it. Of course, if you look at employees in universities and colleges, the picture is different. It's not going to be so much more imaginative to use statistics in another way. If you look at the number of state employees in the Nordic countries in relation to, for example: in Oslo, you get a different number. Then I was not very lucky with moving objects when I mentioned the Food Agency. But it will not take me long to find examples of any other move decisions that have been taken in this Chamber, which the representative Nybakk has voted in favour of. It is possible that there is some of the things I intended to answer, which remains, but it may be for a later article. – There I got the famous Iron Curtain!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e597	Time was running anyway! Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e602	Many things have been thought, said and written about the relocation of state supervision. Most of it has been negative – unfortunately – for this is, from a large point of view, positive for the whole country. There's a lot of different skills out there, and now we're getting even more out. These jobs are not added to the outermost district, but yet I believe this can be defined as district policy. Of course, what is good for regions and regional centres is also good for the regions around. For the Workers' Party, the transfer of supervision is a continuation of the work that the Stoltenberg government had started and that we made at our national meeting a decision to continue with. I'm glad that other parties have also understood the social value of this. Unfortunately, this was, at least initially, just a debate about geography and location, and that employees would not move from Oslo. The last thing I have is a complete understanding of. It took the focus away from what really became the big work, the content of the message. When the majority state that the role of supervision as a corrective and quality guarantee is becoming increasingly important in a society that is becoming more diverse and more based on markets and decentralised governance models, we see that laying the foundation for strong and robust supervision was initially necessary. For us in the Workers' Party it was absolutely necessary that there was money to start this process. We just could not accept that the supervision should use their operating budgets for this relocation work. If that had happened, my reverential claim was that we had not made the move. This had to be in place in advance of the decision, even if someone thought this had been settled in retrospect. That is why I am pleased that the government parties in the committee also thought that we had to lay a better basis for the relocation than the announcement contained. For me, who's from Northern Ireland, it was exciting to hear all the counter performances about the transfer of the Air Traffic Control to Bodø. I took this with a crushing calm, because in most of the Workers' Party there was never any doubt as to what the party meant. If we were able to lay an economic and political basis for these inspections, all the supervision would be out. There was never any discussion in the Workers' Party about opening up e.g. Air traffic control. As far as the employees are concerned, I am pleased that their rights have been preserved. These rights are much similar to those used by the Post in its conversion process, and the Defence, which is also a comparative enterprise, even though they go even further in terms of employee rights. I'm glad that the emigration is now a reality. Of course, I am particularly pleased that the Air Safety Authority is going to Bodø, and not least because it was the Workers' Party that was going to decide that. Bodø is a great city, which already has great competence in aviation. With even more competence added, Bodø will do this task very well. Of course, this is a major challenge for the municipality and the county, and it applies to all municipalities and counties that become hosts for state supervision, because it should still be state-owned. People in Northern Norway have long traditions to move to the workplace. In the last 50 years, 110,000 people from my part of the country have moved south to get a job. This can now be reversed, and I hope that many of the employees will move with their job. No one moved with the Polar Institute when it was added to Tromsø, but now everyone with relevant education wants to go to Tromsø. Good luck with your work, Councillor!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e630	Let me begin by expressing my pleasure at the fact that the Government Supervisory Notice has received as much welcome in the Stortinget as is the case, and thank the government parties, the Workers' Party and SV for the agreement they have entered into. There is a broad consensus in the Storting that we need strong supervision, that supervision still needs to be a state task, and that there is a need for clean-up and simplification of responsibilities and the role both between the different supervisory authorities and between the supervisory authorities and the political level. And there is a broad consensus that supervision of benefits can also be carried out from anywhere in Norway other than Oslo. From the Government's point of view, the purpose of the supervisory notice has been to highlight the importance of supervision and to facilitate their future performance of an even better job than they have done so far. There is no criticism of today's supervision. Within the framework of the business, state supervision is doing a very good job today. However, supervision is about issues that are so important that today’s framework conditions are not good enough. Supervision is that workers can be confident that they do not risk life and health when going to work, that passengers should know that they are not exposed to unnecessary risks if they enter a bus or train or aircraft, that customers in banking and insurance companies can be sure that the money they leave to others is safely placed, and that consumers should be able to know that someone is intervening if telecommunications companies or power suppliers or airlines are trying to obtain a monopoly advantage at the expense of consumers. If people are to be given that security, supervision must have a framework which ensures their professional independence, which clarifies both for the supervision itself and for all those who depend on good oversight, the professional judgements of supervision, and the policy framework and decisions, and which enable supervision to compete for good professionals in its fields. Such changes to the framework conditions are an important and necessary part of the modernisation of the public sector in Norway. It is based on such considerations that the Government of the notification is in favour of increasing the independence of the supervisory authorities by cutting off the State Council's right of instruction in individual cases and instead imposing a right of appeal on the King in the Council of State in matters of major political or social importance. I notice with pleasure that there seems to be a majority in the Stortinge for this. On the basis of the same assessments, the Government is in favour of parallel treatment of major merger and buying-in cases in the financial sector, by requiring such cases to be dealt with in parallel by the Banking Authority and the Competition Authority. I am pleased to note that there is a broad dissension about this in the Stortinget. The proposals on parallelity in the treatment of financial mergers, on the interception of the State Council's right of instruction in individual cases and on the introduction of the King's right of appeal in the Council of State will be followed up by proposals to the Grand Duchy on legislative changes in the respective fields. We are also involved in the communication in order to clarify the relationship between supervision and to clarify the distinction between supervisory tasks, other administrative tasks and government service production. This has a general upsurge in Stortinget and will be followed up, among others. in the establishment of specific petroleum supervision, by giving the Competition Authority overall responsibility for the follow-up to competition policy and by reviewing other areas of supervision with a view to strengthening the clean-up of supervisory tasks. In the Communication, the Government is also committed to establishing independent supervisory complaints. I take note that at this point in the agreement between the government parties, the Workers' Party and SV, it appears that no changes shall be made to the complaint handling during this large-scale period. The government will therefore leave this issue to rest after the 2005 Grand Prix elections. And we feel reasonably optimistic about the outcome of that election. As part of efforts to strengthen supervision and to contribute to the overall goal of the Government of Norway to draw on the expertise available throughout Norway, we also announced in the Communication the move of seven supervision out of Oslo and the establishment of a new supervision in Stavanger. I am, like many of the representatives who have spoken, happy that a large majority in the Grand Duchy seems to support the move. The move is good supervisory policy, it is good government recruitment policy, it is good regional policy, and it is good economic policy for Norway. It is good supervisory policy because it contributes to greater real independence of supervision and because it provides supervision anchoring in strong environments of competence in their respective areas. It is a good recruitment policy for the state because it gives the state access to highly skilled labour even outside Oslo. It is good regional policy because it will strengthen regional knowledge bases, making it easier to maintain highly educated labour around the country, thus providing better conditions for knowledge-based economic development in the Viken region, in the South, in the West, in the Middle Norway and in Northern Norway. And that's good economic policy for Norway as a whole, because we can only maintain a high standard of living and continue to grow economically if we have a high-growth environment in all parts of the country. In five to ten years' time, I am convinced that almost everyone – including many of those who are most skeptical today – will conclude that the move was important, correct and successful. However, if the move is never that right, it will be felt as painful for those who work in the supervision today. I have a great understanding of this and a great respect for the fact that they have fought hard against the move, and for the fact that today may be felt as bad and difficult for many of them. I can assure the Storting that the Government will facilitate the transition for the individual to be as painless as possible. In the Communication, we have outlined the means by which supervision can be used in the process of conversion, and the approach by which the management of supervision should be guided towards the individual. I am very pleased that the majority in the Committee confirms and clarifies both our approach and the way in which we have notified it. At the same time, I would like to stress that a clean process of relocation and good management of individual employees is something that the supervision itself and the management of supervision have to take operational responsibility for. We in the government have to make sure that the supervision has professional and adaptable management, and that they have framework conditions that make a good move process possible, and we have to do that. We're going to follow this closely, but it's the supervision itself that needs to make sure that this happens in a good way. Finally, let me mention that the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) presented this week a report on regulatory reforms in Norway. In that report, they highlight the work of the Government and Stortingen on supervisory reform as an example from which other countries can learn. It's a pleasure to note. The report on state supervision is grey and small — some have even suggested that it is sylt thin — but the OECD assessment may at least suggest that, after all, even if you are a little grey and a little thin, you may have something to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e661	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e664	For the Workers' Party, a fundamental prerequisite for entering into a broad settlement with the Government Parties has been to secure the rights of employees. It is as I said in a previous post, as serious as losing his job in Oslo as elsewhere. There is also a high level of unemployment in Oslo and the Akershus region, and it is not easy to find a job, especially if you start to approach retirement age, but still have years of work left. That is why we have come up with a common wording that says that employees should be exempted from mobility according to current administrative practices, and that they should be offered other government jobs, possibly waiting wages. I would then have confirmed from the Council that he has the same opinion as the majority of the population that current administrative practices, as it has been before, will continue to apply in this case. That is to say, in practice, those who want to let go of the move actually don't want to be on the move bar.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e671	As I said in my post, I am very pleased that the Committee has confirmed and clarified the assumptions we made in the communication regarding how individual employees should be handled. In the communication and in other contexts, we have always clarified that the mobility obligation should be handled not only according to the current guidelines but with great caution in relation to this group. There shall be serious grounds for insisting on the requirement to move. That doesn't mean you can give universal exemption from mobility. An example we have mentioned earlier is that it would be pointless to exempt persons who have been employed in the supervision after the transfer was notified, who are single and free, newly educated and in the 20s, from the obligation to move. If there were people living somewhere between Tønsberg and Oslo, and then a place closer to Tønsberg than Oslo, and today commutes to Oslo to work in the directorate, it would likewise be very strange not to insist that they work in Tønsberg. But in general, we're going to try to get the most out of the obligation to move.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e676	Now, the Council of State has given its mark for what was his main argument for the move, namely independence from the political system. It has been sacrificed in the agreement with the Workers' Party and SV. Now it's the politicians who have to decide. Then you're only left with the district justification for moving. If you also look at the statistics, Oslo is actually outsourced in terms of state jobs. Both Bodø, Trondheim and Bergen have a higher percentage of government jobs. In fact, Oslo is worse off than the places you move to, and then you put this in a strange light. The council and I have a diametrically opposite view of what this is all about. Moving jobs around on the map is bad district policy. There is a poor supervisory policy because more of the supervision is temporarily suspended as a result of people ending up, and there is a bad economic policy because it costs an incredible amount of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e683	It is not right that we have given independence to the boat. The main features of independence are intact, namely that supervision should be able to operate independently of the discretion of the Council of State. The Court of Justice of the European Union shall be rescinded. It was mentioned earlier by the representative Giske that the right of instruction had not been exercised. It is not necessary to use an instructional right when the supervisory authorities know that the Council of State can intervene if they do something that he does not like. So the question of state jobs. There seems to be some confusion in the Storting about what the state is and what the public is. The public is after all the state plus the municipalities. Looking at state jobs, there is a clear overrepresentation of state jobs in Oslo compared to other parts of the country, including the other major cities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e692	First of all, I would like to make it clear that it is the Government and this Storting – we – who are now responsible for ensuring that this removal process is well maintained both for the employees and for the supervisory functions themselves. So to the question, why has the Council of State gone from its two good targets to its statement on getting to an efficient public sector by introducing requirements for total cost calculations in major conversions, and what he said about the impossibility of modernising the public sector if not those working there are motivated to be involved in the process? These are two very good principles that made me very optimistic when the Council of State made its presentation. I wonder why they're abducted in such a great transformation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e699	They have not been waived. But we need to be clear when participation is going to happen, and when participation is not going to happen. I have so much respect for the Storting; I believe that political decisions will be taken by the Storting after a prior investigation into the Government. With regard to the implementation of the political decisions taken by the Stortinget, it is very important that those affected are actively involved. That is why we have had a close dialogue with employees and their organisations, both at the overall level and in individual supervision from the day the proposal for relocation was presented, in fact before the notification was submitted. From today, if the Storting joins the proposal to move them, that process will be further intensified. But it is the Stortinget and not the employees who are going to decide where the supervision is going to be in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e704	When the Council of State presented ‘From Word to Action’, he said, among other things: that some of the problem for the administration was that there was too little ‘turnover’ in central government, that one among other things. Therefore, they should look at the pensions and that they should be harmonized with the private. Now one of the arguments for relocation is that there is so much more stable labour outside Oslo. One might wonder what the Council of State really thinks about the stability of the administration, and whether it is that precisely because the Competition Authority has such great stability, it must be moved to the municipality of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e709	I choose not to comment on the last sentence of the representative’s articles. On the first point, I would recommend the representative to read the statement ‘From word to action’. We're not saying there's too little tourover in the country, we're saying it's too hard to move between the public and the private labour market. I am convinced that this is a problem in Norway. It is a problem if people are locked up in the state sector, locked up in the municipal sector or locked up in the private sector. This does not mean that it is an objective in itself to have a high permeability of the individual workplace. However, it is a goal that the individual worker in Norway should have more opportunity to change jobs when he or she wants to do so. It is also an objective that those whose business is to be relocated or closed should have the best means of moving freely throughout the labour market. There would have been an advantage also in the transfer of supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e716	In his reply to the representative Trond Giske, the Council of State said that he would not grant universal exemption from mobility. Then he started to mess around in a argument that if you were lonely, you could move, if you weren't lonely, then it was clear that you had to look at it a little differently, and if you lived in Lier or somewhere between Oslo and Tønsberg, it wouldn't be necessary to move, etc. I would like to address two very specific issues: first, I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm that there should be no tightening of existing administrative practices in this case, as the assumptions have been. So I'm going to ask, is it mandatory to move or is it not mandatory to move?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e723	I have already said that it should not be intensification of current practice. On the contrary, it has to be more liberal. To the second question, whether there is a requirement for mobility: yes. The size has adopted an official's law which imposes an obligation to move. I have no opportunity to repeal that law, unless the Storting does so. But we have said that we need to evaluate the employees individually in line with the current guidelines, and even more liberally than that: the requirement of mobility for each individual. Given the law adopted by the Stortinget, I do not have the right to grant collective exemption from the requirement of mobility. I have so much respect for Norwegian law that I do not intend to break that law. But on an individual basis, we have to exempt mobility for as much as possible. I hope the representative sees it as a clear and clear answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e731	The cord shift is over. Let's move on to the list of speakers. The speakers who are given the floor in this matter shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e736	It is gratifying that there is broad support for the general part of the Communication, in which the Government's main intention is to increase supervisory independence and clarify the role, strengthen supervisory professional competence and transform supervisory philosophy, with less emphasis on detailed regulation. There is also reason to be satisfied that the majority has adhered to the main criteria for how the conditions and rights of employees are to be respected and that one has made this concrete. But the big thing in the message and in the case is the idea and intention of using the whole country. It calls for action aimed at general and long-term development with centralisation. It is true, as some Oslo representatives have said today, that many move centrally because they are seeking the qualities of the capital. But one should not close its eyes because very many also move because they are forced. This is the result of structural changes, for example: in the Televerket, Posten, Norway’s Bank and not least business branchisation. On 11 March 2003, the rapporteur-general in Rogaland wrote to the Committee: ‘Central principles in the Communication are about... improving interaction between regional competences and future state jobs and strengthening the regional centres of future regional development throughout the country.’ Several regional centres have seen this challenge and have chosen to qualify for selected environments and areas of competence. I would like to illustrate this with examples from my own hometown, Haugesund, which I know well after six years as rapporteur. There has been a long-term effort to develop the most attractive place in the country for maritime competence development, and Haugesund is therefore the natural location for the location of the Maritime Directorate. Per. Today it covers the maritime environment of the Haugesund region shipping companies, offshore shipyards, shipyards, suppliers, brokering, shipping finance, shipping insurance, ship consulting services and also offices of the 2nd district of the Coastal Directorate. Here's 171 maritime businesses. Here's a turnover in the maritime cluster of almost 15 billion dollars a year, and there's almost 12,000 employed in the cluster in this region. There are 2 216 resident seafarers, which is 12 pst. by all seafarers in Norway, and there are 418 young people in maritime training. Here is further education in nautical subjects, both at higher education and higher education. One must be sure that the Haugesund region is well prepared to receive the Maritime Directorate in a good and fruitful way. The network of localisations to receive the different supervision has set up a mandate for their work, which reads: We need to work together between the individual locations to achieve the most friction-free movement process compared to the employees and to facilitate the move for society as a whole. That's what I think is a really win-win thing, and that's why I congratulate you on the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e752	This is a matter of the many words, and sometimes strong words. The State Council of Norman, with its emigration programme for supervision, shows the meaning of the term ‘to make use of the whole country’. The various supervisions will undoubtedly be a great enrichment and give new commitment, optimism and vitalization around our vast country. In this case, there is reason to ask a question: is it only Oslo that can offer the qualities you need as an employee and family member? Yes, for this is how this emigration case has gradually become for the many employees of the supervision and their community. I'm going to think that many of those who move with the supervision will get a positive experience after a few weeks away from the state capital's penthouse and mill. Those who do not want to move clearly demonstrate that some social groups live in an affluent society by saying no to interesting and well-paid jobs if the job is not in Oslogryta. This is not the situation of the many unemployed workers in Norway. Very many people today have to either commute or move to places where the jobs are located. As a representative of Eastfold and Fredrikstad, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the Media Authority to my hometown. I can assure you that we actually have a media policy environment, and that we have plenty of space for more state jobs in the displaced areas after the defense. When the defense moved, we felt that a whole part of the city was being demolished, and that the workers were spreading all over the country. We have experience that many from our territory have had to move. Now we hope that someone moves back to our area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e770	There is no doubt that the decision to remove eight supervision is an important regional policy signal. It is therefore gratifying that all political parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, are behind the proposal for a decision. This may be the beginning of a new era in the exploitation of the great human, regional resources that exist outside the Oslo area. Is what we're now adopting sensational in international terms? In many countries, regionalisation and relocation from the capital are much more pronounced. Yes, even entire capitals are being moved, such as: in Brazil and Germany. I believe that a new establishment outside the Oslo area is a win-win situation. The Oslo area is being dampened by the pressure on roads, public transport, housing, etc. Setting up districts will make much better use of established structures. I notice that the individual representatives from Oslo have used harsh words against the relocation. Some believe that when the jubilee is released in the eight new towns that are being supervised, this is a provocation. As a representative of Agder, I have no problem saying that this is a happy day. The establishment of postal and telecommunications supervision in Lillesand is one of the highlights of an otherwise black labour market. East-Agder is No. 2 in the list of counties with high unemployment. The whole of the South is behind it. I also feel a little provoked when it is claimed that the South does not have competent people. Of course, you don't have top skills in postal and telecommunications, but I have to remind you that in Agder cities there are 200,000 inhabitants, and the percentage of well-trained people is on the national average – perhaps above. Would a relocation just be positive? Of course not! I see the problems for those who lose their jobs in Oslo, but with the good deals that have been made for those who want to move, the transition should be good. I am happy to talk to the employees of the Post and Telecommunications Authority in five years' time. Then I think they, like everyone else in the city of Agder, will thrive. I think the work that the Committee has done to safeguard employees' rights and political influence is good, and it does the good work that the Council of State Norman has done, even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e787	State supervision plays an important role as a corrective and quality assurance. It is important in a society that is becoming more frequent and largely based on the market and decentralised governance models. Therefore, it is important that the political opportunity to intervene is not weakened. Although there should be a clear distinction between professional judgement and the possibility of action in the last resort, this must be a possibility. I'm glad it's going to happen. So it's important that these supervision not be privatized, but that they continue to be state supervision. I'm from Hordaland and the Bergens region, and it's clear that moving the Competition Authority to Bergen will be very important for the environment that's in Bergen. I understand very well the emotional commitment of those who are added to the supervision today, and many may not be able to move with it. But it is very important for the different regions that skills can be built up throughout Norway, and that is what is happening today. I don't think we should be afraid not to get professionals, but one should not be left with the impression that the professionals who have been in charge have not done a good job. They can be used for many other jobs in Oslo, or they can move out. We know that very many of our young people have moved to Oslo, voluntarily, because they want interesting jobs. It is not that anyone has been forced to move to Oslo, but interesting jobs are very important for many young people, and it is important for the regions to have the skills that these young people have. That's why we have to do it so that inside the public, as this is, it's good jobs with highly qualified people. And then it's important that the regions also get skills. For Bergen, the Competition Authority – with the environment that exists both at the university, at the Handelshögskulen and at the high-schools in the area – will mean that young people coming to Bergen for challenge can still remain in the region in these new positions. It is unlikely that the oversight system will be in focus and not just the relocation. Although this has been noted in the media in these rounds, the supervisory functions are important. I think it is important that supervision is located in different parts of the country. It can be a strength for those who work in supervision, and for those who exercise supervision, in relation to the ministry and a lot of professional environments that are already in Oslo. Overall, I think this is a good thing, and I'm glad that the Labour Party has been in, and made it possible, to move these supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e805	For us who live in Oslo, what is now happening is incomprehensible. It's unfair, and we don't think that's justified. Had we perceived the relocation as rational management and healthy business practices, we might live with it. In this case, nothing has been added in the opposite scale that can balance for the disorder of 900 families to pass through. A private enterprise would hardly have performed such a radical operation, with the loss of goodwill, with temporary loss of competence and with certainty as balancing item. The costs are very uncertain, and a private company would hardly dare throw itself into the haze of uncertain economic forecasts as we see here. Does this cost 0.5 billion, it costs 1 billion, or does it cost 1.5 billion? However, private companies do not have the advantage of being able to charge taxpayers in the event of bankruptcy. Reading about ‘durable costs’ and ‘durable savings’ in the message’s 9.5.2.1 and 9.5.2.2 is almost overwhelming. While ‘durable costs’ have created only one argument, ‘durable savings’ have shown an ingenuity that forces respect. For example, advantages are mentioned by building supervision from the ground up. Does that mean that the corresponding process has not taken place in Oslo? Does that mean that any support in the Oslo organization will not take place in Bergen? It is also mentioned as a positive point that, in the context of relocation, work and reporting procedures will be simplified. Does it really mean that you have to move to Trondheim in order to simplify work routines? Arguments of this calibre do not help to strengthen confidence in the economy of the project. Compared with the fact that the Scientific Committees in the United Kingdom have not been used as a consultative body, this reminds us of the pure overrun of Oslo and not of an exaggerated attitude to allow us to check the quality of the facts on the basis of the majority. The good experience in moving the Polar Institute is irrelevant. The Polar Institute was just added because it was functional in relation to the tasks of the Institute! I cannot see that it has been mentioned that the experience of the relocation of the aviation authorities in Sweden was so unsuccessful that it had to be moved back to the capital. Security is the most important function of supervision, and the safety aspect has caused the head of the Vulnerability Committee, Kåre Willoch, to warn against the spread of supervision. It is by function that the quality of relocation projects shall be known. And it's actually that a number of elements of the supervisory tasks require physical presence. We should then receive an annual notification from the Ministry, a notification of travel, hotel and overtime costs as a result of the forced movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e816	It has been said very strangely in this debate. The representative Gunnar Halvorsen suggested the closest, apparently with reference to Brazil, if I remember correctly, that we should move the entire capital out of Oslo, and I guess it must have been Kristiansand or Arendal who was then his starting point. In the case of the representative Odd Holten of the Christian People's Party, he said that those who do not move show that we live in an abundance society. What is the Christian People’s Party really like? I have been at home with a person employed in one of the inspections. He had just lost his wife, he had two daughters in school in the neighborhood and an old mother two blocks away. Is it true that he does not want to move because he lives in an abundance society? We, who represent the Oslo region, are largely banished in this debate to three-minute posts, and have tried as much as we can to take a line. I guess that's also an illustration of how many people live in Oslo and around the country are worth the majority of the majority of the population in the United Kingdom. It would be thought that all the depositors have a responsibility for the whole country, including the Oslo region. But it's not like that. On 14 May following the agreement with the Workers' Party and SV, the case rapporteur Lånke said that this was a happy day for the whole of Norway. Isn't Oslo part of Norway? Victor D. Norman put in a Kinder Egg. He has contributed three things at once: 1st@item: inlistbox The relocation of supervision is economically unprofitable and costs the state quite a billion. Why don't Norman and Stortinget use this money to create new jobs in District Norway? When did we solve the unemployment problems by moving around the workplace?2. We will oversee poorer skills for several years than we do today. It is necessary to rebuild completely new supervision of new crews. Is that really a good policy? Or does Norman and the majority want to weaken supervision and political control?3. 900 employees lose their jobs in a very brutal way. ==References== 3 000 people in Oslo and neighbouring countries are affected by the release of at least one member of the family into unemployment by the political system — without professional justification. This move is an attack on this region, on the workers and their families. It is tearing up jobs in an area that has been affected in advance by a race of bankruptcies in industries that have had the same segment of the labour market as the supervision. I understand that the government council Norman has stated that one of his visions for a better public sector is to develop an inclusive and stimulating personnel policy, where employees need to feel secure in the job situation. Is this inclusive and stimulating?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e846	Like my other colleague from Oslo, who recently had the floor, it was with a mixture of anger and sorrow a few weeks ago that I saw some smiling face that could tell that 900 workers in Oslo are losing their job. That very many people in this room rejoice when you can hit Oslo, is nothing new, but I didn't think the joy should be so great when it hits people directly. So you can take it wrong, and I don't like it. I have largely been very pleased with the modernisation work that the Government has started. I fully agree that there is a need for a modern and efficient public sector, so that we can get better and cheaper services, and more out of every penny. But how you can think that forced labour mobility is a good tool in this process, it's a mystery to me. This is rather the opposite: time-consuming, costly, destructive to the trade unions and burdensome to the employees and their families. There have been many strange arguments in this debate. Independence also in a geographical sense has been one of them. Councilman Norman said that emigration gives real independence. In the past, he used the Oil Directorate in Stavanger as a good example, but it was not exactly independent of the oil industry that made it possible for the directorate to be added to Stavanger, rather on the contrary. The Council of State has also stated that he is convinced that the Competition Authority would have different assessments and come to a different conclusion in the SAS-Braathens case if it had been located elsewhere than Oslo. We probably have a very different perception of the conditions of independence. Independence has nothing to do with geographical distance, independence in this context depends, for example, on: to the administrative authority of the overall body and the organisation of individual cases. That independence has probably been weakened by the treatment of the Storting, and I am also not convinced that writing from a council of states to an oversight to remember a case helps in independence. Worst of all, I think it's that my party and my government spend money, a lot of money, laying down jobs somewhere to create them somewhere else, without it becoming a single job extra. Could we not have used this billion either, because there will be at least a billion, to stimulate the creation of new jobs, more often in the districts? We need more jobs, not moving around on existing ones. The latter is not good economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e857	The case has been characterised by a lack of explanation and misrepresentation of motives from very many teams, both from supervisors and politicians who have tried to ride more horses at the same time. There has been a discussion about postponing the entire oversight case, which unfortunately would have shifted the entire movement process out in time and, in the worst case, would have left the supervision where they are today, both geographically and purely role-clearing. Throughout the process, the Workers' Party's Trond Giske and, in particular, SV's May Hansen's appeals against the Supervisory Notice have been expounded, and only reveal major internal disagreements in these parties. Especially with this SV's May Hansen. Her posts here today testify to a historical confusion as to where SV will. Opinions here today from May Hansen suggest that SV is reluctant to vote for a transfer of supervision because most of the argument is prejudicial to a scepticism for emigration. May Hansen further calls for the supervisory role to be seen from a consumer perspective. That's actually what this is doing. Apart from being a complex removal cabal that is well adapted to the competences of the different regions, it will in the long term be almost an administrative revolution, including: the distinction between management and supervision becomes a much clearer, clearer division of roles between policy and supervision and shorter review periods. The sum is a more independent monitoring of the objective of limiting the overall authority’s ability to review decisions, i.e. as May Hansen’s demand – a direction towards consumer-friendly supervision. I am pleased that the government parties, the Workers' Party and the SV are voting for the main points of the Supervisory Communication. The government parties show that they are doing something concrete for the regions – this is probably an example of how we succeed in the work. There have been a number of orders to stop the removal of supervision from Oslo, in particular the Maritime Authority. The ordering agencies have very few surprising conclusions and little surprising motives. The ability of employees to want to be in Oslo is duly justified on the grounds that the regions lack competence and that no one will move with them. This deflagration of supervision by Oslo is a deliberate strategy for upgrading the supervisory role. Supervision shall be more visible and powerful in relation to the control function it has over important and ever-changing societal relations. So eight of the inspections will be out of Oslo, while three will still be in the capital. 1000 jobs out of Oslo means far more for the regional centres they are planned to add than for Oslo. Media surveillance to Eastfold allows Eastfold to identify itself in the media infrastructure. Now we get a collection of the State Film Authority, the Ownership Authority and the Staten media management in a new supervision, the Media Authority. It must be located in Fredrikstad, where the state media administration and, among others, The Institute of Journalism already holds. Eastfold already has sufficient competence in media management. Relocalisation allows for more efficiency. Experience from Norway and other countries shows that location outside the main country provides more stable labour force and lower operating costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e876	This is a major day for many regions around Norway. The government, at the Norman Council, has done what many governments before he talked about, namely to decentralize state jobs. In this case, there is the transfer of eight state supervision. The government has as its main objective the building of high-growth regions. This will enable us to develop coherent areas of work, housing and service. The supervision referred to here requires all access at a high level of competence of employees, the proximity of relevant professional environments and a certain size of the labour market. But only that in itself is not enough, they must all be competitive. We know from experience that many of the inspections that are currently located in Oslo have problems getting access to good professionals and not least keeping them. Those who are now moving out will be able to gain better access to qualified people, while at the same time making it easier for the rest of the central government, business and organisations to get hold of competent people in Oslo. It is also important for the state to attract exchanges in the professional and competence environments throughout the country. I am glad that there was a whole in the location, so that the focus should not always be on the individual supervision and the individual location. I understand that there has been some debate about this, especially on the part of the employees. They have their permanent job here in Oslo, and now their work situation will change. As a southerner, I am pleased that the Post and Telecommunications Authority will be established in Lillesand, and that establishment will be part of the whole region. Looking at the expertise that exists in and around Lillesand, much is important here for the further development of the Post and Telecommunications Authority. I just want to briefly mention something: the University of Agder – a large legal environment and an ICT environment. Here, there are labour and powerful environments of competence that will benefit from supervision. At the same time, we know that the competence of postal and telecommunications regulators will help to stimulate and enhance the environment of competence in Southern Europe. Finally, I wish the supervisory authorities good luck with the process of moving and working in Lillesand and the South.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e892	It's obviously the big thoughts behind the proposal to move the surveillance from the capital to other places around the country. I understand that people from different regions are satisfied with it, especially those who are given oversight of their region. And it is quite obviously right to allocate the state enterprises and the state jobs beyond the country, where it is appropriate and sensible. The question is whether we have approached this in a sufficiently basic and long-term way. Probably it hasn't been done. It may look like a thought is emerging, and it can be implemented relatively quickly and without specific investigations and advanced approaches. And it's not a good craft when 900 of our employees have to move. You can't compare it here with companies that are struggling, etc. And so they move or cancel people, these are our own employees. These are the employees of society, who have thus taken up these positions, who have been willing to gain top skills in areas that society needs – and then comes such a case as this, which is not as long-term and so thoughtful, at my best discretion, as it should probably be. And the employees have to pay the price for such a relocation. Of course, all representatives of the Storting say that they have a great deal of understanding of the situation of employees. And of course you have it, but you're just as full in this situation. Then you say that the rights of employees should be respected, and that should be just a lack! But one of the problems is that many of these people have a very special competence. They will have other jobs, but they will not be able to use the skills they have because the tasks have moved. So state councilman Norman said in his post, and also later in the line change, which surprised me. It was not quite clear that the obligation to move would arise in general, but that the obligation to move from time to time could apply. I have imagined that those who have joined this majority who now decide to move out the supervision have been fully convinced that those who do not want to move with will release it, and that they will be offered other positions in the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e905	In most contexts, I think we have a level of factuality in our discussions and show both respect and recognition in relation to each other despite real and deep disagreements based on conflicts of interest. In the opening of this case concerning the removal of supervision, both the level of respect and the level of factuality have been abandoned. As Oslo's representative, I have felt bored, ridiculed and ridiculed. In fact, I would say it so strongly that we Oslo residents in this case have been exposed to pure Oslo-hets, a heat that is legitimized and led by the Council of State even in debates and newspaper articles, where he in a seductive way tells the Oslo people that there is actually both water and electricity elsewhere than in Oslo, that there are actually people living in the South in the winter, that Haugesund is doing something more than herring fishing, and that Tromsø is something more than an ice-sea town. What level of debate, what arrogant and discouraging approach to questions that have to do with the very basis of life for more than 900 people and their families – between 4,000 and 5,000 people are affected! And just in this context, State Council Norman has expressed: a workplace doesn't have feelings. If this is Norman's approach and that of the majority in the Grand Duchy, it is frightening, for decisions taken in this Chamber, to have profound consequences for many people – they have to break up from the life they live, spouses cannot continue in their jobs, with the uncertainty that the question of whether they get new jobs or not leads to, and kids lose friends and have to change school. These 4,000 to 5,000 people have feelings and, rightly so, are provoked by the arrogant way in which this debate has been conducted. Oslo representatives have not only accepted but argued for an active district policy, a district policy to stimulate new jobs. But there won't be any new jobs by shutting down those who are in Oslo. There will also be no good supervisory policy by doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e912	The notification of supervision is mainly about the organisation of one of the most important functions of the State, namely to be a quality guarantee and a corrective one in a society characterised more and more by market mechanisms and decentralised governance models. One of the most important supervisory functions is in fact the Competition Authority. For example, the Competition Authority has taken decisive action in the field of aviation, despite too much political resistance. By facilitating effective competition, supply improved and prices lower. Another example is the power sector. A majority here on the Stortinget have now taken decisions leading to less competition and higher electricity prices. This Decision just underlines the need for independent, strong and competent supervision to safeguard the interests of people. I believe that the distance between government, big business, lobbyist environments, political environments and others that will affect, and independent supervision with benefits should be great. In this context, I also believe that geographical distance is relevant. When the Competition Authority is moved to Bergen and located close to the leading economic and legal professional community, the independence of supervision is increased. The mountains have surplus labour in economic and legal areas and can offer more stable and more cost-effective manning. This will result in higher quality and better efficiency of the supervision activities themselves. Politicians on the left have for many years promised voters in the regions that state jobs should be decentralised. Norway has a very high centralisation of state functions to the capital. But little has been done. The creativity and efforts of politicians in the precisely Workers' Party and the Socialist Left towards undermining the emigration process have been alarming. It has been argued in terms of employees, despite the three-year conversion process. There have been arguments of lack of competence in the regions, of suspicion of the intentions of the Council of State, of criticism of the communication itself, of such doubts about quality and safety, etc. It has also been threatened to send the entire message in return and to deal with one and one supervision at a time. It is understandable that moving creates frustration, but I also think that some Oslo politicians have driven this far in relation to the scale of the move and in relation to the fact that the Storting in other contexts provides the capital with special treatment precisely because it is the capital. Opera in Bjørvika is an example of such a decision. It is not the first time it is moved and relocated in the country, and changes have been made that have also affected local communities to a much greater extent than this notification does in the case of the capital. Examples include Defence, Post Office, Telework, Tax Administration, etc. The decentralisation of public jobs is a good right-wing policy. Many have worked hard to reach today's decision. Mobilising on a broad basis has taken place in various nutrition councils, in party networks and among local politicians from all over the country. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that it is the Council of State Victor D. Norman who is to have the credit that the supervisory notice is now coming into place, and we are very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e933	The first professor from Bergen said to Stortinget after he became Minister of Administration, was that for all public sector conversion there were two fundamental principles: one was the total cost assessment principle, and the other was employee involvement. After this, both principles have been sacrificed on the political altar of the Council of Normans to carry out a relocation in line with his clear belief in the inhibition of objectivity and the professionalism of the supervisory work of the Capture theory, and as an extension of the turn of the Council of State against the Competition Authority after they did not stop the merger of SAS and Braathens. In addition, the Capture theory has received quite a lot of counterclaims from a number of other professional economic environments here in Norway. SV is for the relocation of state workplaces. But I had not in my wildest fantasies thought that it would mean any job proposed by any Right-State Council. Because when the government council Norman was late-harvest last year chose to inform 900 employees, via the press, that they should be moved or cancelled, without being allowed to participate in the process at all, the Council of State showed that not even his own statements from the Parliament's pulpit on employee involvement as a basis for successful conversion, there is reason to trust. If employees in states had been drawn and the target had been the relocation of 900 jobs to cities in the rest of the country, I think they would have found that merging those who are going to control ownership in the media, and those who set the age limit on movies, would hardly give any particular synergies. Moving out the economic investigation section of the Competition Authority will probably not lead to any improvement in the fight against financial crime at all. I may be wrong, but I believe that tripartite cooperation will be weakened, and that will mean a weakening of the job for an inclusive working life and the fight against undeclared work. If the employees had been involved in the process, we would have been able to distinguish dirt from cinnamon. Then we had managed to move what had been wise to move, and we had kept what had been wise to keep. I think it would have meant moving a good deal of other government jobs if the employees had been involved in the process. Then I don't think we had, as Norman has done in this process, shown a basic mistrust of employees in the public sector, and we had fixed once and for all that the most important ones in an organization are the employees. Then we had shown that there was something we meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e948	The issue we are discussing has many elements and engages people differently from the different points of view they have in relation to the problem. But the most original contribution to the matter was Norman, even when, in a meeting with employees in the Maritime Directorate, he could tell with great clarity that he was willing to make a 5 kroner bet that he got what he wanted. That's what the majority of the Grand Council is now going to confirm, that Norman won't be allowed to lose $5! 900 employees now bear the burden of different motives for creating jobs elsewhere. The rapporteur of the matter spoke in the media after the Committee had clarified the Committee's views on the matter, and repeated it here in the Stortinget today, that this is a great day for Norway. That's the top of the arrogance! There are 900 people, there are 900 families following this debate today, who hear that they no longer have work, is a great day for Norway. I don't like treating people that way. I don't think it's nice to treat people that way. I think you should have a respect for what these people stand for, in the workplace, what they've done for society, and not reject them as pieces and talk as if they're per se a job, and that a job doesn't have feelings. These are people with feelings, and these are the ones we count. From Oslo we do not fight a fight against the districts, but we fight for a right that Oslo too will be a worthy place to live, that Oslo will be a worthy place to work. There is also reason to listen to Oslo, as there is reason to listen to other districts in the country. We have a story, and we're proud of that story. We dare to stand up and tell about that story. But it seems like Oslo is going to have a permanent leakage of e.g. workplaces. It is wrong that a workplace exists in Oslo. Where does the limit go? I don't know, but if you still have a limitless idea that Oslo is going to be emptied, it will no longer be 'By and land, hand in hand'. Then it becomes city and country, man against man. I don't think we should do that. The costs have been discussed in this process. Norman minimizes costs. He has a tactical need for that. When others try to set other numbers for it, he says they have a tactical need to set the number as high as possible. But if it's true that it costs between 1.5 billion and 2 billion dollars at a time of over 104,000 unemployed, wouldn't it make sense to spend that money any other way than moving 900 people?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e964	This is a day of joy, and it's a historic day. I'm overconfident that we will hear several times in the future, saying that after the removal of state supervision, etc. This will provide the basis for the revitalisation of supervision and enhancing competences, as they move to cities with a good environment of competence. The supervision has required tasks, and the skill of the different supervisory bodies in many areas has been deepened in the many reports and we write to big-time politicians. A parallel effect of the treatment of this issue is that the host cities have reviewed the provision of housing, supervisory facilities, training provision, necessary infrastructure and other services. I am impressed by the preparatory work done by the host municipalities, and it is important that they add to the supervision intensifies contact with the host municipalities. The notification also demonstrates that there is a great deal of knowledge and competence around the country. For Bergen, as I know well, it's worth highlighting the broad environment of competence and the expertise that exists, among other things. within the economy and law, both in the case of education and employment. The Bergensregion has a wide range of facilities before work, school, education and leisure. This should allow families to move safely, even though the city also has many challenges. I understand that many people who are well established in the Oslo area experience the situation as difficult. I am therefore very pleased that the interests of those added are made so well visible and are as well taken care of in the decision that we are to make. While the move and construction of new offices will of course cost, the operating costs of supervision do not need to be increased for the quality services to be provided. By building up supervision in new places, there can be revitalisation, further build-up of competences, the use of consistently better technologies and new structures that allow supervision to deliver even more within the budget framework than is the case today. Moving supervision is in itself a good regional and district policy, with moving patterns in the right direction. In addition, it will result in a mutually positive build-up of competences in the relevant urban areas and regions. It must also be stressed that they will be well received where they come. I believe that the historical decision today provides the basis for constructive cooperation, both for supervisory work and for the regions and municipalities to which the supervision moves.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e985	In the event of an incurrency, SV is involved in a committee comment. This applies to points. 2.8 in the heading ‘Other aspects of oversight’, which is specifically addressed by the Tauban Supervisory Authority. After the agreement, the majority of them state that it is based on: ‘new areas of accreditation and certification are identified in advance in order to prevent a deterioration in the public oversight and management function This majority comment is pending. 2.6 «Competition launching and privatisation». We don't want to be in this comment. Now the Tauban Authority has to move. We believe that this should apply to the Tauban Supervisory Authority. We want these to be investigated in the context of changes to the tasks of this oversight.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1000	900 people are now to be given the choice of moving elsewhere or finding something else to do. These are 900 people who also have a family, and this should be done directly. 3 000 people. The proposal to move state institutions from Oslo is not new in Norway. It has come from governments of different colors, in the certainty that a broad majority on the Stortinget, across parties, believes that moving something out of Oslo is good, because it's a move from Oslo. Why is it really like this? In what other countries is it a virtue to hit the inhabitants of the capital? If Norway does not have an active district policy, many will probably ask. Shouldn't the country's resources and competences be used? Norway has and will have an active regional policy, including: because most people are going to let go, don't tear it up with the root. We don't want to force people to move here. So why shouldn't this consideration apply to people who work in Oslo? It's not the politicians' job to tease people, but between them, I wonder if that's actually it. Often we create a better society if politicians think a little less, leave things as they are, and leave people alone. But if decisions are to be taken first that create problems for individuals, then there must be very serious reasons for doing so, and the burden of proof must lie alone on those who make such proposals and want to implement them. It is the Stortinge that must demonstrate that heavy social considerations mean that 900 workers are to be told to move or disappear. I have not seen any such evidence in the examination of the proposal to lay down 900 jobs in Oslo and then to set them up elsewhere. I'm a sail Right-wing politician, and it's a good right-wing policy to admit that we're not repairing a house that's in order. If it is to be repaired, it is easiest to do where it already is. Nor does District Norway serve symbol politics. District Norway is served with effective and independent supervision of the highest level of competence. I want a capital that is good to live in, and that also serves and is useful to the whole country. But I react when it has been said that Oslo is only going to lose 900 jobs since there are so many people here from before, or that those who do not want to move are promoting it because we are affected by the life of an affluent society or are considerate! The same people who harp, stand on the barricades of their own communities, to save jobs in their own seas. Do they not understand that Oslo is also a community, that Oslo is also a home, that in Oslo people also have family, friends, school and networks? It's just as hard to break up from Oslo as from any other community. 900 people with families and friends in Oslo are as many as elsewhere. It's not about percentages of a population. These are individual individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1017	There is currently a long way between the Central Party handing out a good word to the Government. We are deeply disunityed in the responsibility of the Government when it comes to important Community tasks in our society, and we are deeply frustrated by the inaction of the Government in business policy. But in this case, the Central Party gives full support to the Government. Here are the wise and courageous decisions. We believe that this will both result in more efficient use of public resources and, above all, provide valuable incentives for the regions entrusted with supervisory tasks. The center party is in this case, as in other cases, a party that is united with itself. We are not content with the lack of dialogue that has been with the added ones. It is necessary to include processes in relation to those added to things like this. I want to focus on the part that relates to the oil director's tasks. I would like to remind you that last year the Stortinget asked for a separate message about health, the environment and safety on the base. The message was processed last year, and we've asked for a new one in three years. There is a strong need to strengthen the work of a safe working environment on the base. The centre party is aware of a disturbance in relation to the division currently outlined, with the separation of an own kerosene monitoring. All other supervision we process in this message should be moved, not split. I ask the government council to comment on the comments from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, on page 30 of the setting, which discusses this. We think this proposal is poor. It seems clear to us that the person doing resource management tasks and the person supervising the petroleum sector must, in fact, have good competence in both of these areas. Today, the Oil Directorate works integrated with security tasks and management of petroleum resources. They're reporting to two departments. I hope that the Council of State will take note of this note, provide the necessary time and planning resources, and that the resource situation will also be such that both the management of the large petroleum resources and the supervision of the health, environmental and safety work on the base will be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1032	Today we are dealing with the move of state supervision out of Oslo. I will give tribute to the Government for having made a brave decision. I would also like to pay tribute to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I think it's behind the goal to say that when some supervision is moved, they should be less supervised for that reason. That's probably the same thing as saying that the people who are going to complain about the jobs, be it in Haugesund or Bodø, are worse people than those who are in Oslo. Is there anyone in this room who believes that the people who live in Bodø are worse than those who live in Oslo? At least I don't think so. To be honest, I think the committee is brave, which has given its consent to the transfer of supervision. That's good work. We need jobs in the districts. We don't need transfers of money. We've had enough of that. We need jobs, and what is it that means that jobs should be in Oslo? I have to refer to IT Fornebu. What happened to that matter? When we finally wrote the phase, there was a blackout of dimensions because we were going to create jobs here in the district. What the government has proposed is good. I will give my support to the committee position that is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1041	Let me first join the post of my colleague Kjell Engebretsen from the Workers' Party and Akershus, where he talked about taking into account people of meat and blood who live in Oslo, something many others have also done. I think it is inconsequential that, in particular, the Labour Party and the last Socialist Left Party have completely abandoned the concern of those who work. At least then it is satisfactory that the Landsorganisation continues to take care of the interests of its members, even if the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party do not. Here it is the Progress Party and the Advance Party Group that do. What may upset me the most is to demonstrate how many populists are sitting in the Norwegian metropolitan area, who speak only for their own interests and let everything that is called factuality go on the boat. The basis for a localisation debate should be: What is the purpose of the organisation? What is the organisation or oversight to do? Do you want a location here or there to matter for the functions? There has to be a big difference here between new organisations and supervision and those that already exist. If it is such that consideration is given to relocating an existing organisation or supervision, it must at least be in order for the function of that supervision to be carried out better than another location. It is intended that the objectives of the establishment should be carried out in the best possible way according to the mission. We can also accept the transfer of existing organisations, including supervision, for the sake of the job, if you can prove that the job could be done better elsewhere. We can also accept it if you can demonstrate that the business can be carried out elsewhere for a much cheaper money, i.e. you have significant cost savings. None of this applies when most of these inspections are moved. On the contrary, it costs money, probably – based on past experience – a place between 1 and 2 billion kroner. So there's a net cost in the billions class at a time when the government says they have a problem with money, and that it has to be tightened up. Then you have to spend all your money on relocating organisations and creating dramatic, difficult situations for 900 people with special skills and their families, to ensure that some of the big business representatives in the home state can strengthen their chances of re-election, that some of the big business representatives can boast of being able to move a job from Oslo to their district. I don't think you should be so satisfied and happy with the kind of voters you get. I'm sorry, President, I didn't finish talking, so I'm signing again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1055	It's fully permissible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1058	For reasons of competence, the Government considers that the location of the Maritime Directorate to the highly technical maritime environment in Haugesund would be appropriate. I'm going to end up completely with that. I'm not doing it for populist reasons, but because an enterprise is then to be anchored in one of the strongest technical and maritime environments that we have here in the country. A location in Haugesund will also mean that the Maritime Directorate will be located near the new petroleum control and offshore environment in Stavanger. I want to stress that I'm not doing it for populist reasons. But I think it's natural that this directorate is located in the areas where the largest business in the field that this directorate is going to take care of is going on. It also sees the population of these parts of the country and those in these professions as natural. I'll say to the previous speaker up here, who said we're moving out some jobs because it's populist, that of course I see the pain that's there. But I have to remind you that if we're going to calculate that way, there's a lot of communities that are almost barred for jobs, and not so many people are asking questions about what they're going to be compensated for. Well, it's an assessment of what you're doing overall, and it's hard. Finally, in this three-minute post, I just want to look at another area, which I think is very poorly justified and presented in this message, and that is the division of the Oil Directorate. One should now divide it into two, and in my opinion and what has come from the professional environments, there is not a proper assessment of the significance and consequences of such a fragmentation. The Oil Directorate will be ribbed for the professional environment both on the one hand and on the other, i.e. the safety side and the resource management side. Here I must earnestly ask that the Council of State should make a stronger case in the State budget for the autumn and say how he intends to strengthen these professional environments, and not just split them up, if one is so concerned that there is to be a total distinction between the supervisory authorities and the management side of the Oil Directorate. That's absolutely necessary. I look forward to a larger upgrade and clarification of it for the autumn. In the end, I would also like to ask the Council of State if he will now make clear what he intends to do in the autumn of the state budget as regards the further follow-up to the decisions we are making today. I am thinking of making available the necessary resources within the working environment and the relocation process that will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1074	A few comments on the posts that have been kept. Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa underlined that the Centre Party at least agrees with itself as a party. Yes, such a hostile party does not have representatives from Oslo, so we understand that. Torbjørn Hansen used Defense as an example of workplace concentrations in Oslo. I have to remind Torbjørn Hansen that per. On 1 August of this year, the Defence Command is halved from 1600 to 800 men/women. So it's employees who are in the same segment as those who become unemployed in the supervision. Then I want to stress as Oslo representative that I also sit in a trade committee, and there I work with jobs in the districts every day, and I intend to spend parts of the summer on, among other things. to visit Bardufoss, Retan and South Varanger, just to see if it is possible to save some jobs and to contribute to new jobs in these places. What I then experience as an Oslo representative is that the representatives from the same counties where I try to save jobs and secure new jobs seem to be quite fine to take jobs from Oslo. That is again what several representatives of this region have said, cynical attitudes towards people from Oslo, for this is a human vision. Oslo is not a Sarepta pot where only money or jobs can be picked up. It's actually not just one community, but per. 25 communities, where people live and live, have children in school and need a job. If you add Oslo and Akershus, this is a quarter of Norway's population. When Liones, like someone else before him, says that this is a happy day for Norway, I have to ask again: Isn't Oslo part of Norway? Isn't Akershus part of Norway? A lot of people work in Akershus. Aren't people worth as much in Oslo as elsewhere? Is it true that they don't have feelings? Isn't Oslo part of a totality, which also creates values, and which contributes to value creation elsewhere? Now one can speculate on the motives, of course, because Norman said straight out at a County Conference in Steinkjer: No one likes Oslo more than I do. No, indeed, we have really discovered that in Oslo! And what's worse about Norman is, he likes to dislike Oslo and the University of Oslo, for different reasons, but we're talking about people of flesh and blood living in this town.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1089	St.meld. No 17, On State supervision, key principles for the delocalisation of state supervision from the Oslo area to the districts are used. The treatment of the notification by the majority is important because it will show the real will of the Storting to use the whole country also by moving state jobs from the central eastern region. The notification is based on important principles such as the establishment and operation of State supervisory functions in an efficient and cost-effective way in other parts of the country. There has also been some visible evidence that government jobs can go well when they are outsourced to the districts, and that is what I still think it is. The key principles of the Communication are to exploit the competence also beyond the central parts of the country and to improve interaction between regional competences and to strengthen regional centres of future regional development across the country. The size notification is important both in relation to the decision to outsource eight supervision now and in relation to the future location of both state supervision and other state jobs to the districts. At the same time, as district representatives, we understand that there is frustration both on the Akershus bench and on the Oslo bench, and not least on the employees and their families. But it will always be like that. It also happens many times that businesses are lost in the districts, which the representative Kjell Engebretsen was in here instead, but he thought it was not comparable. No, it's possible. But at least one thing is comparable, and that's that the employees have to find a new job. Either they have to move internally in the county, if there's a job, or they have to go out and maybe go to the Oslo area to get a job. What's the problem, and what you're struggling with in the districts many times – and it shows the statistics – is deportation. We hope this will be an addition to maintaining at least part of the settlement, and getting good arrangements, because the removal problem is there. I think it's done a good job in relation to employees' rights. It's not like when you lose your job in a private company, that you get such rights as it looks like the employees are getting here today. And that's what you're going to have. So I think it's done a good job to get good solutions in that area. I hope that city and country can still go hand in hand. And then I hope you can discuss the same thing with what you've done today, even if you have a different view of things, when you're going to work on different things.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1108	The representative Lioness opened his post by agreeing to what several others here have said, that this is a joyous day. And the representative Meltveit Kleppa said this is a brave decision by the Government. On behalf of the 900 people who lose their jobs through this decision, I would say that it is neither brave nor joyful. We need jobs in the districts, but not just in the districts. The alarming thing today is the increased unemployment rate and the lack of initiative by this government to stimulate new business. The relocation of supervision does not create new jobs. The 900 jobs that State Council Norman and the majority of the population want to do in Oslo are not superfluous. It is not the market that has failed. It is a political decision that is behind the closure of these jobs in Oslo. We can't accept that. Oslo must also be allowed to live. Oslo has concentrated on the largest social problems in the country. In general, we have an increasing unemployment rate in our country, but in Oslo, the growth in unemployment is highest. It cannot be reasonable for a person with knowledge and will in such a situation to choose to lay down 900 jobs. We are in favour of an active district policy, and we will contribute to the creation of new state jobs outside Oslo. But we cannot accept that such jobs are created at the expense of well-functioning enterprises with good competence and with international recognition, and with which users are satisfied. We are opposed to relocating established supervision, because it is poor district policy, poor consumer policy, miserable human resources policy and poor use of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1121	The representative, Carsten Dybevig, states in his statement that SV ‘responsive votes for a relocation’ and that my argument ‘defends a scepticism for emigration’. SV has programmed that state workplaces should be moved out of Oslo. The SV has full confidence in the existence of competence and that supervision can work well around the regions. What I was concerned about in my post was the process, the care of the employees, the political anchoring of the supervision, and the need for the supervisory function to be maintained in the moving process from the consumer's perspective. Therefore, the cost perspective and keeping this out of the budget of each supervision has been important for SV, and it has been important to ensure in the agreement we have entered into. The SV and the Government have completely different political positions according to their supervisory function. The government wants more independent supervision. We want to maintain the political anchoring. That's what I argued about in my post. SV is for relocate. We are not confused, but we believe that this message is about so much more than a relocation of state workplaces. It's largely about changing the supervisory function, and it's very complicated. There was a majority in favour of relocation, and SV has been involved in these negotiations in order to achieve a settlement that ensures the political anchoring of this period – I stress this period – and a better agreement for the employees, and that the costs of conversion should not affect the supervisory function. But that does not preclude us from being critical of this process. The council did not answer my question before when I took a reply to him. I wonder if he might be able to do it now, as he comes after me. The question was, why didn't you calculate the total cost of this giant conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1130	Just first to a few questions from the representative of Meltveit Kleppa and Nordtun about the division of the Oil Directorate. It is clear that we will evaluate the process there thoroughly before this is started. At the same time, sharing is very important precisely to clarify the role. Unfortunately, the responsibility for managing the resources and the economic interests that lie there can easily conflict with the responsibility for health, the environment and safety of the socket, and to remove any doubt that the supervision is being properly carried out, we believe that the sharing is correct. However, both have to have access to reserve professional competence, and therefore the process of assessing its impact continues before this is implemented. Several of the representatives have pointed out that Oslo is a community, and that is, of course. It is an important community, they even have representatives in Stortinget, including, as far as I am aware, Carl I. Hagen. But the fact that Oslo is a community is only half of what Oslo is. Oslo is also the capital of Norway, and when some of us have pointed out that Oslo needs to be called a larger perspective on localisation issues than elsewhere in Norway, it is precisely because Oslo, in addition to being a community, is the capital of Norway and, as such, must be involved in taking responsibility for the whole of Norway. I have been quoted in this debate as saying that workplaces do not have feelings. I don't know how many workplaces the representatives know who have feelings, but I said it in the same spirit as I said, but workers have it. It is important that we handle the individual employee in a way that means that we show respect for their ability to move, their desire to move, and if they don't want to move, we have to facilitate them to get other jobs in Oslo. But the workplaces, as far as I know, have no feelings, and it is important here to distinguish between the workplaces and the people affected. Then the representative Heikki Holmås was injured to say that the employees were informed through the press. It's wrong. They were informed via the management of individual supervision, and they were notified immediately after the Government had made its decision, just to let them not hear this from other sources. The representative of Holmås also claimed that I was running ‘the anti-competition investigation’. I would like to remind you that it is SV that this week has announced that they will support a proposal in Stortinget to instruct the Competition Authority to change its behaviour on the issue of competition in the power market. So it's not me, but SV, who wants to reverse the Competition Authority. Finally, it would have been nice if the representative Nybakk, if she still had the opportunity to take the floor, could explain what she meant by the cryptic statements at the end of her last post about me and motives and the University of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1143	In the debate of several people, I have been confronted with the fact that I have strongly emphasised that this is a joyous day for Norway – for the whole of Norway. I have nothing against repeating just this, because I look at it like that. The reason enough is that I'm putting a slightly different perspective than a number of Oslo representatives in this room do, which I'm going to claim to put in a small, small partial perspective that is not enough to make a final and overall decision in this case. I think councillor Victor D. Norman now said this in a very correct way. This is really about correcting the distortion of this country in the form of a large relocation and an enormous establishment of state jobs in the Oslo area over many decades, a development that politicians have not previously had the courage to resist. Today, we need to try to remedy some of the accidents that our former colleagues have suffered in order to show. I have to say that I would like to remind the representatives of the Oslo Workers' Party, who have brought the strongest results against this relocation today, that the best example of a large-scale relocation in Northern Europe in the last 20-30 years has been in Sweden, started by the Social Democratic Government in the 1970s with Olof Palme at the head, where they moved out about. 50 state enterprises and close to 10000 jobs. And we hear nothing but that what happened, basically, was successful. It shows that sometimes you have to grab such a grip. We don't always like to compare ourselves to the Swedes, but in this case it might be timely to remind ourselves of this. I'm the first to stress that I'm sorry that we're going to have confrontations between Oslo politicians and politicians from the rest of the country. I have also tried in previous matters that I have led, not least in the field of culture – the last in connection with the operacase – to bring about the establishment of important, large national institutions in this city, for the benefit of the whole country, of course, but also for Oslo. I think it is absolutely necessary that we also have that perspective with us. Sometimes we do it for the benefit of the capital. Sometimes we have to take action to save development for the whole country. That is why I believe this is a joyous day for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1152	Although, like many others who have spoken in this matter, I understand, of course, the situation of the employees in the various inspections, I think that the decision we are going to make today is very happy. With the decision, we prove that we as central politicians believe that there are good and competent professional environments in other parts of the country than in central districts of Oslo and Akershus. It is an important point that we should continue to supervise and that they should be state-owned. But it's also important that we get a physical distinction between the supervisory role and other roles. Britt Hildeng said in her first post that as Oslo’s representative she felt “laughed” and “tied on”. Yes, what should I say to that? With Norway's School of Business, Bergen has the best competence in economics in the whole country, actually one of the best environments in Europe, and I guess I don't want to say that our legal faculty can't compare with the law in Oslo. Nevertheless, politicians have not previously found Bergen good enough to compete with Oslo in terms of greater supervision. That's why, after years of using the word of the representative Hildeng, Oslo has been hiking on Bergen and other cities with good professional environments, it's a pleasure that today these cities and regions are given the opportunity to show what they are good for. I'm proud to take part in a decision that gives recognition to professional environments across the country, a decision that can give us the vitalisation of supervision, and that can give many, many positive ring-fences to those regions that are now being re-supervised. Finally, I would like to thank the Council of Norman for a very good piece of work and wish him good luck in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1163	The government council Norman presented a challenge to the Oslo representatives and Oslo that an overall perspective on localisation issues had to be put in place. It's just that this isn't a locate question. A localisation issue we have when a newly established establishment is to be located somewhere. Then one can discuss, and then we have said that then one should rely on factual considerations in relation to where the business can best carry out its purpose, doing its job in the most reasonable way possible. Then we have a localization question. I heard Victor D. Norman of the Polytechnic Association on these questions and the supervisory notice a while ago. He said that when he was going to be nice and secure jobs for some places other than Oslo, he would have preferred that he had some new supervision, instead of having to take someone up with the root. I am pleased that we have then complied with his request for new supervision in our proposal No. 4, where we say that we want to investigate the establishment of a child protection agency, which is needed, a police department, for which there is clearly a need, a supervision of municipal services, for which we all know there is a need, and a school supervision. Then one could discuss where it was most reasonable to establish them. But today it's about moving something existing. I would also like to say quite clearly to the majority in this Chamber that if there is any deterioration in air safety or safety in air traffic as a result of moving the Air Traffic Authority and perhaps not getting with the professional staff to Bodø that you had expected, if that means less safety and some accident, then you have a great responsibility in this Chamber. This has been reported from part of the Air Safety Authority. I can mention the supervision of Telenor and NetCom, which are fighting for monopoly. If competition in the ICT industry is hampered by the transfer of postal and telecommunications supervision, the responsibility of the Government and the majority of the Grand Duchy lies with the Government. I really think it's a little remarkable to listen to this debate, which has an anti-losc attitude. You forget the human beings, too. We must have a legitimate interest in the fact that once we have received and taken a job, we all have to live with the uncertainty about whether something is happening to the company for economic reasons or for factual reasons. But because you want to set up jobs on a political level, you only think of those who get them, and not of those who lose them, who are taken up with their roots, who thought the government was a safe employer. I think this is a very, very sad day, and not as the case-rapporteur says, a historic day of joy for the whole country, as if just moving this would solve the problems throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1175	Let me immediately say that I fully agree with Councilman Norman that Oslo is two things at the same time – a community and a capital. But then it's part of this debate that Oslo is now getting up and telling us that it's not going to be used against us. But the history of workplaces and institutions in Oslo is that it is used against Oslo. And respect for Oslo's role as a capital, which is so little taken care of, makes Oslo now stand up and say that this cannot continue. Between 1975 and 1995, 40 000 industrial jobs disappeared in Oslo. It's dramatic. Then someone says, "Yes, but you've got some new jobs." That's right -- Oslo has become more and more an administrative city, but we haven't asked for it. We'd like to have the spread of jobs that Oslo had in its time, but that was gone. And there was politics behind it. Now I'm not accusing one or the other government, I'm just accusing the phenomenon that it's easy to knock at Oslo if you don't get up and solve problems in the place you're in. 90 pst. by the supervisory staff, they say they will stop. Tom's threat? Of course, we don't know very much about it, because it can't be answered until that day when the inspections move. But if that's true, it's dramatic. It's not like we're saying that competence doesn't exist in the districts. But I think we're very clear – and I've seen that even the department is clear – that there is a particular competence in supervision that does not come about by itself, but develops within supervision, and if the specific competence goes away, it means something to the ability of supervision to be supervision. It has also been said that there is a risk of getting supervision that will not be up and running for a period of several years. But that's one side of the drama. We have an increasing unemployment rate. Those who work in supervision today realize that they are facing an opportunity that this unemployment will not be solved in the near future. So what's the first thing they're doing now? – And now I’m talking on behalf of more people I’ve talked to, even friends. The first thing they're doing now is looking for other jobs. They don't have time to wait for the move date. They need to apply to the labour market now. Who are the first to apply out of supervision? – The best, the most important competence. We can risk getting supervision that disappears from the map as effective supervision before the day of the move has arrived.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1186	Marit Nybakk has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1189	I'll be very short, just record two things. One is that the agreement between the SV, the Workers’ Party and the Government Parties underlines the need to provide a financial framework to ensure human resources while at the same time fulfilling the tasks of supervision, and that it is important that the resources of supervision are not used to cover the removal and conversion costs of supervision. Then my question is – and it goes especially to the case rapporteur: If the parties agree with this agreement, money must actually be allocated now in the revised national budget. Are the parties prepared to do so, and is the rapporteur-in-chief? Then Victor Norman has given unclear answers as to whether it is actually mandatory to move or not. He has said from this pulpit that he will not give universal exemption from the obligation to move, that perhaps as much as possible will get it, but that it will be so that some cannot get it. This is, as far as I can see, contrary to what at least we from Oslo were told when this agreement came into effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1203	This has been an emotional debate, and there is little to say about it when, in practice, 900 people — with families — are at risk of losing their jobs. However, I must say that this debate has been shattered by a number of completely untimely personal attacks. Producing the Council of State as a person who is particularly little concerned with human beings is a description I do not recognize. Even if we subtract the background – how it is with these 900 – it is making party politics out of this relatively uncomfortable. There is an attitude on the part of the Committee, and if you want to attack people, you can find your own party colleagues represented among those who draw the same conclusion as the Ministry. I don't think we've got the debate baffled by ever-recurring attacks on the Council of State. So, of course, we disagree with the conclusion. We in Oslo believe that there will be a temporary loss of competence, with a bearing on security. We believe that the costs are very uncertain, and we weigh the fate of the 900 families differently from that of the majority of the committee. Then you can finally ask yourself why we on the Oslo bench are fighting in this lost fight. We fight because we know how the attitude towards Oslo in general is, and because we know that this is not the last time we stand on this pulpit to speak Oslo's case in the fight for not to least even more – because this is not the last crossroads. That is why it is not just convulsions when we on the Oslo bench have contributed to a long debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1214	Today, we establish an important principle – the principle of increasing the professional competence of supervision by making it more independent. It strengthens the legitimacy and authority of supervision. At the same time, we state that inspections can be located at a geographical distance from the departments. Today, we have also established that we have a strong and good professional environment throughout the country. In this context, this has developed into a debate on localisation. I think it has in part been used strong adjectives today – perhaps something in the strongest layer. In my work and in political discussions, I have learned that it should often be that the largest should be the most generous. I have not seen this in my colleagues from the capital today. I would like to state that this is primarily a debate on strengthening supervision. Some people have even insisted from the pulpit here today that it is populism, and that many are here to send their greetings home. I hardly think that my post today will receive some special attention in the Address Paper on Pentecost.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1223	The president also thinks that most things should have been said now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1226	The central party will not minimize the challenges that are now facing following up to the decisions that are being taken today. Of course, we will also stress that it is easier to establish new jobs outside the capital than to move established environments. We argue that the Government's further work is trying to do itself when new jobs and new tasks are to be implemented, and we also argued that the processes in relation to them will be more inclusive. For our part, we have said that we do not think they have our good enough in this difficult matter. However, it is far from that and to the words and expressions that are used here in relation to the 900 families that this applies. We also want individuals to be taken care of in our assessments and in the work that is now to be done by the Government. I see the representatives of the Oslo Labour Party and their contributions here today as a new understanding of what is happening in many district municipalities many times a year when there is a change in the possibilities of work. So I look forward to further debates in relation to just that. So there's a lot of doubt about professional competence in different parts of the country. It was also then, for example. The Norwegian Polar Institute was established. There is no doubt that that institute has a clearer and more visible role after moving to Tromsø. To me it seemed most strange what was sown by doubt in relation to shipping and Haugesund. For such as Haugesund lies geographically, with the Coastal Works, with the experience, the traditions and the competence of Haugesund, who should be better at maintaining a new oversight than exactly those?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1239	I really didn't intend to take the word, but I do, since the council and I got into a little discussion here. It would have been a startling statement if it was such that I thought that SV is as much for competition as the only gratifying thing that Victor D. Norman is. So, when you kind of apply things other than those that exist in relation to competition law, and we think other societal interests are important to take care of, it's clear that we can discuss that, and we can disagree on that. But when I spoke about Victor D. Norman's address to the Competition Authority, I pointed out quite specifically one event, and it was at the Academy's conference on state relocation, where we were both present, and where Victor D. Norman spoke more or less as follows – he can correct myself if he wants to: When he saw the Competition Authority's reason for not stopping the merger of SAS and Braathens, he realized that the Competition Authority had to be moved out of Oslo. I don't think it's any wonder that the director of the Competition Authority saw it as a public execution, also of the decision that had been taken in that context. What's been important to me in this matter is that you can't run a public sector administration where you don't make sure to pull the whole team and all the employees, with all their knowledge and competence about the work they're doing in processes when you're going to have big changes in the public sector. What I think is a little scary here, although I am very happy that SV has been involved in pressing in place that the employees' interests should be taken care of, is that this has been a process that has started at the top and then went down in the organisation. If that's how big and government is going to manage all the resources, all the people we have in the public sector that are doing work for us, I have to say that this is not a good way to do it. That is why I have been skeptical that we are now kneeling down the procedure that we have chosen in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1250	I'm essentially prolonging the debate a little, but I think it's right to say after listening to the debate, that no one has wanted those who are employed in the supervision, welcome. No one's done it. I want from this pulpit, which I have been recommended by my adviser, Inger Stolt-Nielsen from Haugesund, who sat in the previous period, and who was the first to take this up, all wish to welcome out in the districts. They don't have to live in Oslo! They are cordially welcome to all the places where the oversight had to be located. They're just as good people in Haugesund or in Bodø as they are in Oslo. So they're very welcome. And here I think I have everybody with me. It's just that you forgot to say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1255	I fully agree with the President that most things have certainly been said. But there is a specific question from the representative Nybakk that I think I have to answer. She did not answer my question, but I will try to answer her. This is the case with mandatory mobility. Just to make it crystal clear: I don't have the opportunity to give a collective exemption. I have to give an individual exemption. We have said that we should do it least on the basis of current criteria and administrative practices. In concrete terms, it means that anyone who goes elsewhere than to Tønsberg or Fredrikstad can charge an exemption if they have not started after the removal process was announced. In the case of those who are going to Fredrikstad or Tønsberg, we need to exercise a qualified judgement based on where they live initially, and what it will result from problems for them to change their workplace within relatively short geographical distances. We have said that the obligation to move should not be what creates problems for employees. And let me just add to that: the only thing that concerns me a little bit about the debate we have had here today is that some representatives have contributed to creating greater uncertainty for the employees in the supervision than it is for that reason. We have said that we have to take good care of the employees, we have to ensure that the right of priority to other positions in the state is real, we have to ensure that mobility is not used as a means of creating difficulties for people, on the contrary – and we have to remedy the situation in other ways. What I think we in this room should at least gather around now, is to innovate that this is the full agreement on, and this is to be implemented. It must end with trying to create an uncertainty that makes the situation even more difficult and even worse for the affected. Just one other thing: the representative Holmås insists that I face the Competition Authority. His proof of that is that I once said that I might have made another decision about the same people, who had worked the same way, had been located somewhere else. I think the representative Holmås knows me so well, from both past life and present life, that he knows that there are few who are warmer defenders both of the Competition Authority and of competition policy, than I am. We need strong competition supervision. We have very skilled employees in the Competition Authority, and my job as a Minister of Labour and Administration until, if necessary, a curtailed instruction authority, is to support under the Competition Authority in all possible ways against attacks from strong industrial interests and from political parties in the Stortinget who want to put it out of play. That job I'm going to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1280	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Fotation, see page 3142]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1296	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3143]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1312	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1321	On behalf of the case rapporteur, Leif Lund, I have been pleased to support, together with the majority of the committee, the work of briefing on a network-based defence, which is a common system for the transmission of contemporary data between defence units and weapons platforms, called Tactical Data Link-16. It will be an important contribution to ensuring Norwegian ground, sea and air forces a complete capacity, which will in the future enable the Defence to form part of an integrated battle environment nationally and with other NATO countries. Good cooperation between countries in the alliance and interoperability between arms is an important prerequisite for strong and good defence. ‘Joint’ and ‘interoperability’ are more than just fashion words. There must be support bars in a modern defense. Therefore, the introduction of the TDL-16 must also be seen in the light of the Prague Capabilities Commitment, where contributions to the achievement of command, communication and information superiority are central. In other words, it's also part of our commitments in the alliance. TDL-16 shall be integrated on a wide range of weapons platforms across the defence sectors, such as new frigates, fighter planes, DA 20 Jet Falcon and 6th Division Mobile Command Space, to mention something. The programme will consist of a main project with two subprojects. The main project will provide a comprehensive introduction of the TDL-16 in Defence. It has a total estimated frame of 1,825 million. kr and is expected to be completed in the period 2003-2008. The sub-project TDL-16 for frigates includes the acquisition of five TDL-16 terminals for the five vessels of the new Fridtjof Nansen class and will be financed by increasing the scope of project 6088 New Frigates by a total of 480 million. kr. Sub-project TDL-16 for the F-16 MLU aeroplanes includes a forced acquisition of 20 TDL-16 terminals, which will be installed on the first aeroplanes to undergo an so-called M3 upgrade. This is financed by increasing the framework for project 7510 Mid Life Update by a total of 115 million. kr. As soon as the total programme has been developed and quality assured, the Government will present this to the Stortinget. I don't have any other comments, and the majority support the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1340	The Defence Committee is in its position, as the representative of Gunnar Halvorsen has now presented on behalf of the case rapporteur, to acquire Tactical Data Link-16. There is a system for transmitting contemporary data between the defence units and the various weapons platforms. Tactical Data Link-16 is a communication system that enables units and weapons nationally and internally within NATO to interact, ‘talk’ together and ‘understand’ each other. The inclusion of Link-16 in Norwegian defence is therefore a very important contribution to fulfilling the commitments adopted by the NATO Summit in Praha. If we do not follow up on our NATO commitments, we will not be able to operate our various defenses together, or with our allies – not in Norway, nor out. In the years ahead, we will also strengthen cooperation with our closest allies. Here the United States and the countries around the North Sea stand in a special position. This cooperation is called the North Sea Strategy and respects both the transatlantic and the European dimension. The North Sea Strategy involves increasing the focus on multi-national solutions for acquisition, operation and maintenance, strategic transport, logistical support, command and control systems, training, training, practice and operations – for all defence sectors. Military transformation is an important business to give us completely new capacities, in parallel with a modernisation that further develops and improves the capacities we already have. If it turns out that only some allies are undergoing a comprehensive military transformation, while others are hanging after, NATO's forces are no longer interoperable. We want the NATO meeting to be held now in June to select Jåttå and Stavanger as headquarters. Norway will be a very good choice for the alliance, but only if we follow our commitments. Acquisition of Tactical Data Link in Defence is such a commitment. Norway can offer good training opportunities for both land, air and sea forces, and especially in Northern Norway. Regardless of what is adopted in NATO in June, we in Norway need to facilitate military transformation at home, both competent and organisational. Link-16, as stated in the Proposition, is a contribution to NATO's achievement of command, communication and information superiority, as well as improved operational cooperation and effectiveness in fighting. In the first place, we will now approve the purchase of terminals for friedties of the Fridtjof Nansen class and for the F-16 aircraft. The F-16 aeroplanes have been continuously subject to upgrades and the introduction of new, modern and necessary equipment. In this way, we have made sure that today we have a combat fleet which is fully operational, with high combat capability. The fact that we upgrade the weapons platforms with new equipment to keep improving them is a matter of course, even in relation to the frigates. Link-16 is a system that came on the track after the frigates were ordered. Now that we have the opportunity to make the frigates even better rusty for the problems they're going to deal with, we obviously have to arrest it. However, Link-16 shall not only improve the frigates and F-16 planes. Link-16, when the system is integrated on all necessary weapons platforms and units, will increase the overall impact and interoperability of the defence. We as a nation must be able to actively contribute to alliance cooperation. We have to implement the solutions that NATO has agreed on, and Link-16 is one such solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1361	For the Progress Party, it is of the utmost importance that Norwegian defence is able to operate effectively with allied forces both at home and outside, in order to contribute actively to solving the entire spectrum of NATO's tasks. We are of the opinion that the TDL-16 could be an effective contribution to ensuring Norwegian ground, sea and air forces a complete capacity, just to cooperate with the other NATO countries. This is the majority for. Where possible, the purchase of ancillary equipment is skeptical to the agreed cost framework because there is considerable uncertainty about the cost of acquiring air protection missiles. The Progress Party believes that the Government needs to decide as soon as possible whether such missiles should be acquired at a significantly higher price than initially, or whether to buy fewer to stay within the cost framework. The Progress Party has noticed that the Government is notifying several additional projects that are not known to be materialised. The Progress Party finds it very unsatisfactory that the Stortinget should be briefed on possible new projects in this way. The Government should therefore provide the Stortinget with an overall overview of the scope and costs of the additional projects actually planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1370	In this case, the Stortinget is invited to accept the purchase of Tactical Data Link-16 for the new frigates and our F-16 aircraft, and in addition, certain additional projects are informed in relation to the frigates. The issue of the purchase of five frigates has been a recurring issue in this room in the last few years. What the final price tag will be is one of these issues, and at the latest in the Questionnaire on 21 May this year, the Council of State could not answer the question whether it is correct that the estimated exceedances will be between 5 and 10 billion kroner. In this case, one of these additional projects appears, and several others are suggested. All of these projects will greatly spoil the frigate project. This is the addition that the proposition says is necessary for the frigates to do the job that NATO wants us to be able to do. But what was it really the Stortinge said yes to the time when the frigate project was adopted? Did the Storting know that what was done was to buy boats that were not fully equipped, and that the additional costs that are now coming would be so extensive, and that this would be part of NATO's expedition defence? And what's the final sum going to be? SV is not prepared to grant billions in the coming years, in addition to the exceedances repeatedly detected through the media. We believe that the Stortinget should be presented as soon as possible with the final framework for the frigate project, so that one can see this cost in conjunction with other defence priorities in the coming years. It is also necessary to provide an overview of the operational costs that the frigates will incur and how they will be recovered. Such an overview must also assess the role of the frigates in our national defence and the extent to which they are to be included in plans to further escalate Norway’s foreign engagement. In the SV, we are critical that the Norwegian defence should increasingly be directed towards participating in offensive foreign operations, especially at a time when several of our close allies have shown little respect for the fact that the use of power should be clearly allowed in the UN mandate in order to be legitimate. In this proposition, the Government announces several additional projects that are not known to be materialised. On a question to the Ministry of the Committee on the additional projects in addition to satellite communications, SATCOM, and the ESSM missiles that will be materialised, the Ministry states that uncertainty remains related to the scope and content. And I want to ask the Council of State how it can be that the scope and content of the frigates are still unclear, many years after the decision was taken, and whether there may be additional projects beyond those already known today. The Proposition states that the deployment of TDL-16 must be seen in the light of the PCC, Prague Capabilities Commitment, where contributions to the achievement of command, communication and information superiority, as well as the improvement of operational cooperation and effectiveness in combat are among the obliging areas of action. So it's NATO's commitments that the scope and content of the frigate equipment are still unclear, and so is the cost. In the Question Time of 21 May this year, I asked the Council of State what these new commitments to NATO will cost. Then the state councils answered: ‘As far as Prague Capabilities Commitment is concerned, last year we also had large-scale rounds on this, just after the meeting in Prague, where we agreed to the price tag for this commitment for the Norwegian defence to be in the range of 700-800-900 million. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I believe it is important that the full picture of the cost of our new commitments to NATO is soon made clear to the Storting. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State if it is to be understood that the total cost of these PCC obligations is between 700 and 900 million. kr, including the investments, or will they be added? Finally, I just want to inform you that SV is going to vote against the setting in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1400	The Christian People's Party is concerned that Norwegian defence must adapt to the new challenges through conversion and the necessary efficiency. It was at the NATO meeting in Praha last year that decisions were taken on new and better military capabilities. It strengthens the military capability to defend against chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear weapons. It also means an improvement in command, communication, information and operational cooperation. Norway committed itself to making its forces more flexible, mobile and durable and to increasing the capacity for cooperation, so as to facilitate the operation with allied forces and in international operations. Therefore, Norwegian defence plans must be coordinated with the plans of close allies, and it is in such a perspective that we need to see the acquisition of Tactical Data Link-16. The defence is in the direction of a networked defence, and until a common system is needed to transmit data between the defence's various weapons and units. Tactical Data Link-16 is an important contribution in this way. Since the TDL-16 project involves the integration of the system on a number of different weapons platforms across the defence sectors, it is recommended that the acquisitions be made in a total programme. Within this overall programme there are two sub-projects. The Christian People's Party believes that it is a right decision to provide the acquisition of the TDL-16 for the frigates of the United Nations class and for the F-16 fighter planes, which are to undergo a scheduled upgrade of aircraft's software, this because the costs will then be reduced. As soon as the total programme has been developed and quality assured, the Government will present this to the Stortinget. The size shall be informed of the uncertainties associated with the costs, progress and benefits of the acquisition of the frigates. The proposal provides for the notification of possible additional projects and a brief description of the capacities and additional needs. We need, among other things: satellite communications, we may need to re-evaluate the missile purchase plans, and it is considered to provide the Fridtjof Nansen class frigates with intelligence capabilities. These are important things, which are now being investigated. The Christian People's Party understands that capacities capable of meeting new demands for military capability are at different stages of investigation, and that therefore there is uncertainty associated with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1411	The centre party has chosen to oppose the acquisition of the five new frigates for several reasons, including: the question of what is really needed in relation to today’s threat picture, and also in relation to the high cost of frigate purchase, will result in both investment and operation in relation to the defence and the impact it may have on other important parts of the Norwegian defence work and the Norwegian defence areas. After reviewing this proposition, I have to ask myself the question: How expensive is the frigate project finally going to be? The most important thing to be informed about today is not the Tactical Data Link. There is a concrete and, by and large, good orientation, but it is all the other things that are not yet known, and that the defense has obviously not taken a decision, but which are nevertheless informed by the Storting that there may be an increase in costs, which is important. This is true for the first time, SATCOM, satellite communications, which is just saying that it's going to be financed by an increase in the overall framework of the frigate project. Then you're going to say that the cost of education is going to be higher than you thought, and it's going to increase the cost framework. Then it's going to be more extensive than previously assumed, and it's going to increase the frame. In the case of air-protection missiles, many in the consortium, consisting of most NATO countries in 1995, have had savings plans since 1995, and they have withdrawn and no longer want to purchase this equipment. This means that the piece price of missiles can significantly increase. But Norway has not made any decision as to whether we have to save on the number of missiles to be purchased in order to stay within the cost framework we have, or whether we are still going to buy the same number, thus taking the cost because other nations are saving. The only thing that is possible to get answers from the Minister of Defence today on the exact information related to the potential cost increase is that it will become essential. You obviously don't know more than that. Then there's a point about other needs during the investigation. There are potential needs at an early stage of investigation. It is not clear whether there is a need to materialize the projects, but it is still possible to inform the Storting about it. And that's what I'm asking myself: why do you find reason to inform the Storting about something that you don't yet know about being materialized? Is it perhaps because in the next round you've thought of saying that this is the big thing being informed about, so here the big thing has to accept that the cost framework is increasing, because we've been briefing the big thing? On the part of the Central Party, I believe that in that case it is necessary – I also hope from the other parties – to say that the type of information provided to the Stortinget cannot be seen in any way as binding information, which at a later stage gives any commitment to increasing costs. After dealing with this proposition, I think there's a reason why a total increase must be very attentive to the cost picture of the new frigates. The centre party has chosen to oppose the project, and we will therefore also vote against the recommendation in the committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1426	There is a clear difference between the minority and the majority of the committee. The majority believe that a platform will never be completed as a defence tool. There's a technology development that makes no matter which platform we buy, tanks, planes, vessels, we'll buy additional equipment throughout the platform's lifetime. That's what's called dynamic development. You will never get a final sum on a platform, because technology is evolving, and because our task is to ensure that the platforms we have have have an optimal interaction between maritime defence, air defence and the Army and between the Norwegian Defence and our alliance. The majority clearly realize that they have understood. The minority has a static consideration. I want to give an example of what we are now developing: the network-based defence. One day during the initial phases of the ‘Enduring Freedom’ operation, a sergeant on horseback, along with local forces, discovered a hostile ground target. He stopped up, downloaded the picture of the target area on his laptop from the UAV that circled over him. He marked the targets on the picture and sent it directly to headquarters with a request for satellite involvement. The headquarters gave priority to fighting the target and ordered weapons-bearing aircraft to the area. The sergeant sent updated target data to the pilot, who used his own sensors to double-check that the coordinators were correct, and that there were no other own strengths in the area. The weapon was delivered and directed at the target of signals from GPS satellites. The total exposure time from the target to the control was about ten minutes. What the Storting and the Committee are doing today is confirming that we are developing defence against a network-based organisation. Tactical Data Link-16 is part of this initiative. The transition to network-based defence means that we're going to organize our entire military power apparatus in a different way than before. We're transferring our military forces from the industrial age to the information age. We bring different components and functions together in an integrated network, so that the entire organisation can benefit from the optimal functioning of each part. In this way, we achieve a quantum leap in power far beyond what we would achieve if we just kept increasing the number of platforms isolated. We've been platform focused before. This is because each platform has represented a weapon system that could function on its own. Now let's do it differently. If we need to observe, we can use satellites, drones, surveillance cameras, radars, antennas, etc. This information is then transferred directly to a unit that analyses the data, and we can get an effective overview of the situation in a cost-effective way. Traditionally, we would send the entire platform out to get this information. We don't do that anymore. The acquisition of TDL-16 is part of the implementation of such a seamless computerised information system in the Defence. That's why we're doing it at the same time on our planes, on our frigates, and we're going to do it when we buy new MTBs. And I'm very happy that the majority in the committee understands the significance of this. It is not just an increase in national impact and a strengthening of national defence that we get out of it, but a strong strengthening of the defence of alliances, which is why it was so important that the Prague meeting in November said that all countries should give priority to increasing information superiority. This is an example of that. I've got a lot of questions. I have commented on them initially by showing the difference between defining a project as a static project that does not evolve, and realizing that all platforms will be renewed throughout the lifetime – as long as we have them in the Defense, as long as we need them. This does not mean that closed contacts crack. What we have contracted for, we have governance. But that means we're going to present additional projects as soon as they're ready. That doesn't mean we don't have economic governance. That means that, within a 118-frame, we must always give the highest priority to what gives us the greatest defence ability. What it's going to be will also change over the years. That's why we don't just need a dynamic defense, we also need a committee that realizes that it is, and that participates in this dynamics, and that's what the majority of the committee does today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1443	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1447	There is clearly some uncertainty about what these frigates should be used for, and therefore also the content of them, and the price. The platform is never finished, says the Council of State. She might be right about that. But unlike the Council of State, I have to think about the total costs. I just want to ask the Council of State: is there no limit to how much this will cost until the platform is ready for use?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1454	There's a limit on how much the defense will cost. There is also a limit on how much the defense will spend on investment. But what investment in defence we spend our budgets on, adopted in four-year frameworks, is up to this hall to decide, in close cooperation with the Government and with NATO. That means it makes no sense to say, how much is our F-16 going to cost, how much are our frigates going to cost? I wouldn't do my job as Minister of Defense if I didn't make sure that we modernised these with technically good solutions as the alliance develops these and uses them. If we want real defense along our coast, of course, our frigates must have the ability to combine with the allied marine defense that's to be present up there, and with allied air combat forces and allied army environments. It's not possible to ask how much the final sum is going to be in the lifetime. We get the limit in the budget we have, and then we get the priority within it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1463	I thought that the council might put it so that she avoided lines, but on the contrary, there is some of her statements that increase the need. The Council of State says that there is a clear distinction between the majority and the minority, and says that the minority is static. I agree that there is a clear distinction between the majority and the minority, but it can also be on the veracity of letting the money go, and it may be that a person has different equipment and investment priorities. Does this mean that the Council of State here today says that the Stortinge will not at any time be fully informed of the total cost of the frigate project? Does that mean that what was said during the treatment of that project was merely a temporary indication of the costs? Does that also mean that we will not at any time, except for the annual budgets, be confronted with an accurate – not approximate – review of all the costs of this project, at a time when the defence is otherwise in a situation of painful conversion and depopulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1472	Of course, this does not mean that the Storting will not be presented with the total costs of the frigate project as they have been adopted. Of course, that doesn't mean that the decision Stortinget has taken, with a total of NOK 15.3 billion. in the 2003 figure, is fixed. But that means that the Government reserves the right to propose additional projects, such as this TDL-16 project to $480 million. kr., in addition to the overall framework adopted by the Stortinget. It also means that we're going to make a continuous assessment of which additional projects we're going to propose on the frigates, on the MTBs or on the F-16 planes, based on what we have the most operational benefit of. It doesn't mean that the government and the majority of the population don't have closeness. It simply means that we show flexibility in relation to where we put our investment resources. But everything has to be approved and adopted by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1479	The council said she thought it was pointless to talk about the total costs. I can understand those who are critical here and ask questions about the costs, and that's why. But I see the need for the frigates, and I also understand that there will be expenses in the years that come. It's still years before they're done, and so we can be prepared that this will cost us a lot, a lot of costs that we haven't yet explained. Does the Council of State think that during the years in which these frigates are to be built, there will be such a great technological development that there is a need to constantly return to new costs, or is it because you have not had the overall overview from the beginning?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1486	There is a difference between not dealing with the agreed overall framework for the main project or not dealing with the estimated framework for the New Freighter system, which is a different amount, and not setting a final figure on what the frigates of additional projects will cost over their lifetime. I would also like to say that it is not the case that we are today notifying that there will be a number of additional projects. The additional projects we have mentioned are Tactical Data Link, and then we have these other projects, among others. ESSM, which we propose once we have assessed what we find right, either to increase the cost or to decrease the number, based on what the other decision-makers in NATO do. Then we come up with a motion for a resolution. But based on that, it's per. date no indication that the overall framework of the main project will not be complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1493	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1498	So there is no final total for the frigate project until the platform is operational. That was the Council of State's answer to my question. Does the Council of State really hold on to this? And could the Council of State think that other tasks in public society were carried out in accordance with the same principles?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1505	I said that there will be no final sum for how much additional equipment we want to buy into a platform over the lifetime of the platform. It has nothing to do with the short period of construction of these frigates, but it means that long after they are built, it will of course be our duty to ensure that these platforms are equipped with the best equipment possible during the time we are going to use them. So here one has to make a very clear distinction between having a total project approved in Stortinget, which contains concrete projects we are familiar with, and being open to the fact that as technology progresses, it may be necessary to add the frigates to the frigates, long after they have left the frigate dock in Spain.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1512	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3143]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1528	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Mr Konradsen, speaks on behalf of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1539	This matter is mainly about the approval of new investment projects in the Defence. In addition, the issue is about the status of the development of the Defence Logistics Organisation, the FLO, as well as what is referred to as data problems in the Coast Guard. There are problems that relate to the purchase of so-called unsafe radars to the Coast Guard, with potential financial losses as a result. The government has promoted St.prp. No 53 for 2002-2003, on the investment activities of the Defence, based on the budget proposal. The actual investment projects promoted are estimated to amount to a total of 789 million. kr, which shall be financed within the adopted budget. Projects include: upgrading, addition and construction of 50 radio stations distributed throughout the country to repair external construction damage, as well as internal remediation related to the environment and safety at Huseby joint emulation, management and pampering of vulnerable crews in Rogaland by co-location at Madla new workshop at Rena new buildings with educational areas and special rooms in connection with the establishment of training and competence centres for the Army Trenven at Sessvollmoen Most investment projects are linked to the Defence Conversion Process. It is a pleasure to say that an overall committee has expressed satisfaction that the progress of the investment part of the defence conversion process is maintained. In the proposal, the Ministry also informs that contract negotiations have been initiated with Kongsberg Defence & Aerospace on the delivery of new marine missiles and that the result has been submitted to Stortinget in the autumn of 2003. In addition, it is informed that the submission of the integrated strategic management project at Akershus fastening is delayed to the 2004 budget proposal. Furthermore, the Proposition contains a statement on the FLO, where the Government briefs that phase 1 and phase 2 have mainly been completed, and that phase 3, which includes the further organisational development with a view to developing a more process-based internal structure for the FLO, is now under way. A unanimous committee has expressed satisfaction that the conversion of the FLO is ahead of the previously presented timetable. Furthermore, the Committee has considered that there is a significant share of the defence budget traded through the FLO, and the Committee therefore calls for concrete targets to be set by the Stortinget for total reductions in operating costs and for concrete gains to be realised. In 1998, a contract was concluded with an American supplier for the provision of command, control and information systems on Coast Guard vessels. The background for the re-establishment of the case is an exchange of letters between the Committee and the Ministry concerning the new air radars which have proved to be unsatisfactory. The new radars have higher safety requirements than the old ones, therefore only KV ‘Nordkap’ operates with old radar and that boat is currently fully operational with helicopter. The Ministry points out that it is necessary, in the first instance, to develop clearer requirements for radar performance and to carry out an analysis of market alternatives. On the part of the Committee, it has been important to stress that the solutions available must comply with aviation safety requirements. I refer to the Committee's position as it exists and recommend it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1586	The working party and the government parties agree on all the points in the setting, and I agree with the detailed articles of the working case rapporteurs. Just a few comments on a couple-three points from my side, points that I think are important to comment on. As the working case rapporteur mentioned, the Committee, at the request of the Council of State in its position on the investment activities of the Defence Agency, has addressed the radar problems of the four coastguard vessels. This is therefore a contract concluded in 1998 with the US supplier EDO for the delivery of command, control and information systems on Coast Guard vessels. This radar would provide an overview of the air activity in a larger area around the vessels, identify aeroplanes and helicopters. The problem, however, was that the then Naval Defence Supply Command, now the FLO/Sea, did not find any reason to consult the Air Force before the decision on radar and the supplier was made. The result is that we have an unusable radar system that is unable to capture air traffic and that does not ensure flight safety. The radar can only capture the surface of the sea, if I'm properly oriented, in interaction with other systems on board the coastguard ship. What is critical in this matter is the decision-making process: lack of overall overview, lack of cooperation, a decision taken on an overly narrow basis. It is now necessary to require a solution, a solution that ensures aviation safety. The Committee is briefed that during the summer, helicopters will be able to operate from vessels with fewer limitations than today. We are also informed that the parties involved are working to solve these problems in the long term, so that the Coast Guard will have a proper system. It brings me to the organisation of the FLO, the Defence Logistics Organisation. A friend of mine said the following day: «The FLO is a waste of its own premises.» It is not that bad, I suppose, but there is a lot of mess here, and a lot that needs to be done. The most important thing is that we have one logistics organization, not three or four. Then we must expect a strong efficiency and down-to-earth critique. I know it's going to be a tough job. It is important that employee participation rights are respected in this process, but efficiency needs to be improved and that matter is over-mature. Let me also remind you that the Committee in its budget configuration for the current year underlined that organisational changes of a fundamental nature are to be presented to the Stortinget. Today, we are asking the Ministry, at the latest, to come back with both a strategy for the further development of the FLO and to concrete targets for cost reduction. The Committee also notes that the location of the FLO in the departments should not raise doubts about the on-site command line. The defence is not strictly the right place for fragmented liability. But we've been some places where there's actually been doubts about this, and where the FLO's management and the other military management in the department have the same degree. Of course, this can cause problems. Finally, the negotiations between the FLO and the companies concerned on the agreement on the production of MTBs in the Skold class have, for various reasons, been withdrawn and are not included in the investment proposition. We have accepted this through the spring, both because the fire at KMN «Orga» meant that we had to get a review commission that would be ready before these negotiations could be concluded, and because of course there has been a question of price, i.e. the cost estimates originally made by the Storting are higher. I would now like to ask the Council of State to confirm in concrete terms that she will ensure that this matter is dealt with so that it can be promoted by 20 June at the latest and is therefore also referred to here in the Chamber. There are not least industrial policy reasons for this, and we are in a situation where Norwegian industry has problems. I would therefore ask the Council of State to confirm this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1612	Investment needs in defence are high. This need reflects the shift in defence. This results in future investment requirements that we do not know about today. This may be the result of new requirements and needs in NATO context and as a need in relation to technological developments in general. This setting and proposition contain investments of which there is a broad consensus and necessary for the defence and defence activities. What you may be critical of is that the Council of State has not at an earlier stage addressed and highlighted the needs of the various projects. Since there is such a consensus in the Committee on this matter, I should be very careful to clarify only some aspects of the position. In the context of the organisation of the FLO, there is some uncertainty as to the organisational and financial objectives set for the organisation. There's room for speculation about command conditions, and these things have to get in place. The Progress Party reports that Defence Construction is now in the process of planning a construction for the integrated strategic management at Akershus fortification. In this context, the Progress Party is very concerned that the proper assessments have to be carried out. Some of these assessments should relate to any other re-allocated use of existing building mass on Akershus fortification, Huseby and the Ministry of Defence premises. In the form of a letter, the Ministry of Defence has given assurances that the regulatory work in progress has been completed with the Municipality of Oslo, and that there will be no problems in connection with any new buildings in this way. Before launching such a costly project, we believe it is very important to make assessments of moving the activity that is currently at Akershus fortification, to the premises at Huseby and the premises of the Ministry of Defence, and with the highly capacity-free rental market in Oslo, we see it as natural to assess the financial costs of possibly renting joint premises by other operators in the market. The Progress Party is concerned about the increasing construction costs and fears that this can contribute to bringing the project into a cost spiral and the costs incurred as a result of the necessary rental of transitional accommodation. We also fear here that the cost growth of the project can be great. The Progress Party is not satisfied with the progress that seems to take shape in the frigate project. In the context of the series acquisition of new sea target missiles, this appears to be a project which contributes to a cost-cutting approach in relation to the initially agreed framework for the frigates. The Party considers it essential that the technical specifications and requirements on which the acquisition process is based be subject to strict quality assurance and that a regime is established within the Defence Oversight Command to this effect. Experience has shown that the quality assurance of several projects has not been satisfactory. We therefore assume that the implication of this process is understood by the need for a thoroughly analysed platform for such a project, and that this platform is established on the basis of a total image. In view of the acquisition of new radars for coastguard vessels, we are amazed that the department has not addressed the integration problems that have arisen at an earlier stage. Furthermore, we are amazed that it seems to be such that there is satisfaction with a solution that does not fully meet the requirements of aviation safety under the extreme weather conditions we can experience along the coast. We are of the opinion that the aviation safety issue needs to be resolved in a way that ensures full operationality and that the service can be conducted in such a way as to initially operate. There have been recent speculations about employment stops and job cut in the Defence Department. If it is true that only 2000 new jobs have been recruited in defence posts in two to three years, this means that there is a need to remove about 2000. 7,000 jobs compared to the current number of employees. This is, hopefully, a good explanation for these new posts, but it is worrying if it turns out that there is no real reduction in jobs despite many different types of departure incentives. It is also worrying that a number of people with acute competence are hired or re-employed in the Defence after finishing the take-off package.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1629	It is a unanimous committee that is behind this position, and I would like to touch only a few small moments in this matter. In the context of the conversion of the Defence Logistics Organisation, the Committee is now presenting clear indications that future forms of association will be clarified in the context of the next long-term plan. This should have happened earlier, as the committee pointed out. There are also no concrete targets for total reductions in operating costs, concrete profit-realisation requirements and clear priorities, but this will now be presented by the Stortinge. It must soon be the end of the launch of major conversion projects without knowing whether the transition is actually giving us and society a net gain. Cost what it will cost is, of course, a fancy concept, but it shouldn't be a motto for the Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1638	The matter we are dealing with now, the investment activities of the Defence and the approval of new investment projects, are a complement to the budget proposal. In the process of conversion, it is particularly important to see the tasks and resources of the defence in the context. We need to see short-term activities in the context of the long-term objectives. Defence is being developed to become more modern, task-based and ally-adapted. We need to invest in modernisation to be able to challenge well-equipped opponents in modern conflicts. If we are to be effective with allies, we cannot operate with our own standards, but must follow developments internationally. The defence must be operated in the most cost-effective manner possible. It also applies to all public sectors. We can't afford to modernize as big forces as we had during the Cold War. So the defense is getting smaller, but more modern. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the progress in the investment part of the defence conversion process is as planned. In terms of personnel savings in the Military Organisation of the Defence, the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Minister of Defence confirms that the objective of a reduction of approx. 5 000 annual works by the end of 2005 are still under construction. With the necessary new additions, the defense has a net reduction of annual work per year. today at the base of 1 400. Annual developments from the autumn of 2002 have not been satisfactory. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the head of defence has now taken a number of immediate steps to reverse these developments, and that the Stortinge will be further briefed on this in the context of the 2004 budget. The proportion of the defence budget traded by the Defence Logistics Organisation is large. The importance of the FLO must be seen in a long-term perspective. It is important to ensure that the FLO is operated as efficiently as possible, while ensuring that the defence needs are properly met. The Christian People's Party is pleased that phase 1 and phase 2 of the conversion of the FLO are now completed and completed as planned. Phase 3 for the conversion and development of the FLO is concentrated on strengthening the holistic strength. There is a process that requires cooperation and interaction, and as experience shows, is very important both in setting up a requirement specification and in choosing solutions to make the defence function as a whole. I further point out that an overall committee has asked the Government to come back to the Storting with strategy and concrete targets for cost reduction for the FLO in the context of the next long-term plan. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the radar problems in the Coast Guard. They mainly relate to the deployment and integration of the radar type SPS-67. These radars operate in isolation satisfactorily but not in interaction with other systems on board in all weather conditions. In this case, it is about being responsible consciously. The Christian People's Party considers it critical that the supply organisation recommending the acquisition of the SPS-67 radar in 1998 was not advocating enough for the expected radar performance and also lacked an overview of the aviation and safety needs required by helicopter operations from ships at sea. This has caused a huge economic loss to the defense. The SPS-67 radar costs approx. Twenty-nine million. kr, added costs of installation and integration. New radars will most likely cost 40 million. kr per. vessel. In addition, integration and installation costs are included. The multi-disciplinary working group is working on finding temporary solutions that allow the use of helicopters with fewer limitations than today, but there is no adequate solution. In the work currently in progress, I would like to stress that the solutions chosen must meet the requirements of aviation safety. But for an adequate solution, new radars are needed that can meet today's new requirements for aviation safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1670	The Committee's position is largely unanimous. I only have a few brief comments in addition to the detailed comments that have come from some other representatives, with views on both the investment programme and the issue of the FLO and the migration of the FLO, which I largely share. I just want to comment briefly on the comments the Center Party shares with the Advance Party regarding the radar problems in the Coast Guard. It is mildly said not a lucky thing. It is clear that when one goes to the purchase of the type of radar – which is so important for the Coast Guard in relation to the area and the weather conditions under which it operates, and the need to be fully operational – and ends up with radars that are not fully usable, and one will have to resort to temporary solutions, it is a situation that is almost scandalous. I would like to stress, in addition to the comments that the Center Party has, that this is probably an experiment that the Defense can't afford to repeat the way it has now happened. It's clear that here, both politically and in relation to the different governments, a sharing of responsibilities can have, but I think that the lesson we should all draw from this is that this was an experiment that you don't have the opportunity to repeat, at least not all the time that you haven't even legally secured yourself in such a way that you have the opportunity to go back to the producer and get the equipment fully operational again. It's a serious situation. It's serious for the Coast Guard, which is one of the most important things we deal with in the North. Furthermore, the Centre Party agrees with the comments of the rest of the Committee, in particular with regard to the Defence Logistics Organisation’s emphasis on the need to return to the Stortinge with a discussion of strategy and concrete objectives for the further conversion of the organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1679	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for reaching a broadly unanimous position. That is important, because these investments are part of the conversion programme that this House has been adopting to modernise its defence. This applies largely to all investments under adopted conversion plans that are necessary to keep the pressure on the conversions under pressure. At the same time, there has been some clarification of the committee, which I have of course noticed, and which we shall comply in the best possible way. I would like to comment on some of the themes that have been raised. For example, the representative Nybakk asked. whether one can be sure that the contract negotiations around the MTB will be concluded in time for submission to the Stortinget by 20 June. Of course we cannot guarantee that. There is negotiations on explosives, and there is considerable willingness on the part of all parties to arrive at a result in time. But there are some complicated elements, such as: we will not conceal that having negotiated with several actors at once has been complicated. It's e.g. not all suppliers here who are Norwegian, and there have been some elements that have made it necessary to spend some more time. Fortunately, we also have the external quality assurance system, which does so that it is only when the details of the contract have been completed that an external quality assurance body can approve the project and it can be submitted to Stortinget. Everything is done, but here we are also dependent on other actors than those we can control ourselves. I would also like to make a few comments about the Akershus project in relation to questions from the representative, Mr. Width. The main vision behind the ambition to bring together the defence leadership and several of the defence institutions at Akershus was to get more dynamic and integrated management. At Akershus you have both the Swedish Defence College, you have the Stabskole, you have the Institute for Defence Studies, and in the future you get both the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Staff. When a new building is ready, there willbe room for several more actors at Akershus. For example, a long-term ambition may be: the defence shall be able to concentrate its activity in Oslo around Akershus and Kolsås. We will then essentially also not rent out premises in the city. However, pending the construction project, some lease projects will also be necessary. In the case of the room at Huseby, it has been a clear ambition to release the premises for sale, so that it can be part of the rather tough commitment that Defence Building has got by reducing the total area that the Defense has made available by 2 million m2. It is such that the Municipality of Oslo carries out planning work. The planning process is not completed, but there are positive opinions and positive cooperation so far. Of course, I fully agree with those who say that the NSM project on the frigates must be followed closely, and you have to be sure that there is sufficient quality and cost security in that project. When it comes to radars, I'm going to end up with everyone who says this is a very unfortunate case. We need to focus on how to get the best possible result out of the situation we're up against, and we also need to focus, as Marit Arnstad was about, on what we can learn from it. Now, fortunately, we have good faith that there will be a helicopter on board the Coast Guard from the fall on, and you will spend a little longer time finding a proper solution, and coming back to it in connection with the next announced long-term plan. But that we're going to get a proper solution, and that's the goal, it's raised above doubt. With regard to the job vacancies that have been referred to by several people, it is true that during the same period as you have already hired a staff member. But it's a quite natural consequence that today we have it so that we have professional addition after education as a right for the newly-trained officer. It is also a consequence that the armed forces move from a security force to a force based on branches, i.e. professionals, and it will increase the number. But the net number is what's important, the 5,000, and the net number goes down. The net number has decreased by 1,400 people, which is kind of what you could expect at this point in time. I think it is quite reasonable to give the Defence Committee an annual feedback, preferably in relation to the budget, on the process of further de-employment. I see that my speaking time is out, but I think I've been through most of the points that have been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1700	State councils are given an additional chance, because now there's a line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1704	I guess the replica has the form of a question. Norwegian industry is currently in a very difficult situation. Therefore, when leaving this repurchase agreement for the purchase of frigates, it was very important and right that it should correspond to a 100 pst. contract value. It ensured Norwegian industry participation in this military project, and it means that Norwegian companies have been given the opportunity to be suppliers not only to the frigate itself but in areas such as maritime technology, information, communication and medical technology. A unanimous committee requires the Ministry of Defence to submit control arrangements to ensure the follow-up and the achievement of the objectives of the repurchase agreement. I thought it was wise then, and it would have been wise to follow the same strategy in the future. Can the Council of State confirm that we are on track in relation to the repurchase of frigates? And in addition, does she see the value of the repurchase agreement for Norwegian industry, innovation and Norwegian jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1711	I can of course confirm that the repurchase regime has had meaning for the Norwegian industry and will still have it. When we decided 100 pst. repurchase of the frigates was precisely because it would be a unique opportunity for the Norwegian ship-related industry to have exported products for a contract sum equal to that for which we buy frigates. That was also the background because we chose to use 100 pst. repurchase when we signed the new helicopter contract NH-90 for a while. Of course, we will use the repurchase regime wherever possible, and where it is profitable, for Norway. However, in a few projects we see a trend from the repurchase regime to industrial cooperation in advance, where participation at the level of development ensures future contracts. That project, of course, applies especially to Joint Strike Fighter. But I can confirm that in the case of the frigates, we are well on track. 50 pst. Repurchase was to be achieved in 2007, but we have already achieved it, precisely by having a close follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1720	The councils have so far been in it a little bit, but I take it as a line anyway. The progress party has been very concerned about aviation safety under extreme weather conditions along our coastline – over a long time we have actually been – something that may seem as if the Government is not in the same way that it is satisfied with a solution that does not fully meet the requirements we should be able to make. Can the Council of States confirm that there is no cause for concern or otherwise any weakness in the new radar of our coastguard vessels, but that they meet the requirements we should be able to impose?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1727	Of course, I can't say that there's no reason to worry about the new radars to be used on the Coast Guard helicopters, because there were just concerns that made us transmit information about this to the committee and that we had a hearing on it. But what is important is what the Committee has underlined in its position that we cannot provide safety requirements that are such that they endanger human life. We can't jeopardize safety requirements when it comes to operating systems on the Coast Guard. That is why a fast-working working group has now been set up to test out the new radars with the adaptations currently being worked on, and then they have to be approved by the air defence safety authorities, so that we can be absolutely sure that what we are doing is sound. I also want to say that there won't be a proper solution as an initial solution, but the goal is that the long-term solution to be recommended in the next four-year plan will hopefully bring us closer to a proper solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1734	It is important that the level of precision of the answer is good on this question. I want to try another way: can the Council of State confirm that the compensatory measures now being taken on coastguard vessels due to the failure of the purchase of radar could provide adequate functionality in relation to needs, or is this an experiment that will, however, end up having to buy new radars?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1739	We've been through this quite thoroughly, among other things. in a committee hearing. I cannot guarantee that we will get a proper solution to the initial solution that is now being worked on in this working group. But what we're counting on, and what the Air Force is counting on, is that you can get a solution that allows us to have a helicopter on the Coast Guard from the fall of, but with limitations. It is not that we can say today with 100 pst. security whether a completely new system solution is needed in the next four-year proposal or one. What we've been clear about in the hearing is that we can't now conclude that we have to buy new ones. There are possibilities in the form of additional solutions and they are tested. So my answer is, as it has been in the past: the aim is, with the working group working on it, to get the helicopters in place on the Coast Guard – with limitations – from the fall of the year, and that we only have to decide on a proper solution when the proposal for a new four-year proposal is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1750	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1755	So I'm only going to have three minutes, but I'm going to be fine. Coast Guard. We are sitting in this room and have a picture of the Coast Guard that is a bit excessive. We think the Coast Guard can do more than it can actually do. To put it that way, we have decided that the Ministry of Defence, through the defence budget, is to impose 24 pst on the Coast Guard. VAT! We are the ones who have decided that with regard to the budget! This means that the boats must be at berth, that they cannot sail, because it is 24 pst. more expensive to drive. And for the Coast Guard in particular, that means they have to hire ships. - We certainly have! The radar -- to say a few words about it. I'm probably one of the few in this room who's seen and gone after a radar, which has used a radar. Not to minimize anyone, but it's not like it's just a small image on a radar you're going to go after. It is not possible to use a radar intended for vessels and on slow-moving beings for an air-going radar. It doesn't matter! So it must be when we in Stortinget have decided that so much money and so much money will be spent on a radar in the Coast Guard. Experts in the Coast Guard say it's not useful, but the bureaucrats in the State Council department say that's the money we have at our disposal, that's the radar you get! Then the council can't stand here and say that we get the helicopters in place without a good radar! And we are the ones who have decided it – here in this Big One. It doesn't matter! When the experts on the radar are set aside, and it is left to bureaucrats, it has to be wrong – it has to be stoned! So the Ministry of Defence has transformed the concept of sovereignty into showing the flag. Yes, it is the ability to display the flag it has been renamed to, not the ability to show the flag again. To show the flag, one must be present, one must be there. It has to do with surveillance. But it's redefined to include the ability to show the flag to be equal to the flag to be displayed. It can't be touched! It has to do with surveillance, and it has to do with sovereignty. We can't ignore the fact that we're a major force: we have a sea area seven times larger than our land area, and there we have to be there and show the flag. We can't be able to show the flag, but it's not the Marine Defense that has decided that it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1783	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3143]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1791	We are then ready to vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1798	During the debate, Mrs Knudsen has tabled ten proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Mrs Knudsen has asked for proposals Nos. 5 to 10 are added over time. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1 – 4, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to establish a separate complaint form for each supervision.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the new supervisory working methods do not lead to an extended form field for private enterprises’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to take account of further supervisory work to achieve a more marked distinction between service production and supervisory tasks.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Council asks the Government to investigate the establishment of child protection, police surveillance, supervision of municipal services and school supervision.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1834	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Labour Inspectorate shall not be moved.’ [[Labour Inspectorate]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1849	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Maritime Directorate shall not be moved.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1864	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Competition supervision shall not be moved.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1879	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The oversight of air traffic is not being moved.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1894	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Postal and telecommunications supervision shall not be moved.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1909	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to scrape the proposal for a merger of the Film Authority and the Ownership Authority into a new media supervision.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e1973	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-06.ana.ud2077e2006	There is no record.
