ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e47	The President of Stortinget, Jørgen Kosmo, and the representatives of Ursula Evje, Åse Wisløff Nilssen and Finn Martin Vallersnes, who have been licensed, have again taken up their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e52	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e57	I suggest Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e62	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative, Ola D. Glötvold, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e67	On behalf of the representatives Odd Roger Enoksen, Jorunn Ringstad, Åslaug Haga and myself, I propose that major changes in the structure, location and capacity of the specialist health service be submitted to the Stortinget for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e72	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e86	This is a matter that may not be of the greatest importance, considering today's situation in the rest of the world – that is, it is an attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee on State Samples, Governors and Counsellors. On the part of the Committee, we assume that the Government is now actively following up and ensuring the objective of at least 40 pst. representation of each sex by appointment of government samples, boards and councils. Today there are considerable differences between the different departments, and I think that is not how we can do it. I refer to numbers, also from the Government, which show that only one fifth of the members of the Department of Defence and the Ministry of Oil and Energy are women. The proportion of women is also too low for samples created by the Prime Minister’s Office, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Fisheries. The Committee has also noted – and I would stress this – the age and geographical bias in the distribution of board representatives. In 2000, there were 3 pst. by members of government councils, committees and boards under 30 years of age, while 6 pst. was over 65 years of age. In comparison, 21 is pst. of the population aged between 16 and 29 years, while the population aged over 65 is 16 pst. by the population. Also geographically, there are distortions in the representation. Nevertheless, the key areas of the East are over-represented, while the South and the West have lower participation than the population. For the Workers' Party, it is an important objective to ensure a representation consistent with the cross-section of the population, both in terms of gender, age and geography. It is this way, as the setting also shows, that the Workers' Party and the SV do not support the Government's proposal to reduce the number of members of permanent and temporarily appointed governmental selections by 10 pst. Our position here, our opinion, is that the number of members has to be determined based on the tasks to be solved, and not on random measures, as the Government advocates. Otherwise, we have also noticed what the Government itself says about the training of those who will sit in different boards, councils and selections. We are pleased that the Government says they want to take an initiative in training members of college bodies, because it is important to make sure that everyone, perhaps in particular new members of the board, has sufficient knowledge of their responsibilities before entering into the role of participant in different boards, councils and committees. I hope that the Council of State can confirm that this initiative will be taken quickly, so that we can get good enough board representatives around.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e101	As far as the proportion of women in government boards, councils, selections and denominators is concerned, this is not a matter of the utmost importance for the Progress Party. What is important for the Progress Party is that those who have these jobs have the right and necessary qualifications. Which sex you have, in this way, is subordinate, according to the opinion of the Advance Party. That there is different composition in different types of subjects and advice, we see it as natural, especially considering the tasks these different subjects and advice are assigned to do. We know that in defence, to use it as an example, it's a higher proportion of people, and then it's also natural that advice and selection that sort out under this, have a higher proportion of men than women in government. With regard to the Government's objective of reducing the number of members of the 10 p.m. sample, the Progress Party also supports an improvement in efficiency and modernisation in this area. But we think it would make more sense to reduce the number of boards, councils and denominators, rather than focus on how many people are in the board. With regard to the number of seats on the various boards, the Progress Party considers that it must be determined on the basis of the tasks to be resolved. However, the fact that there is a significant efficiency potential in relation to the number of controllers, councils and denominators is no doubt about the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e110	I just want to confirm what the representative Mr. Brørby asked for, that giving better training to members of the sample, the board and the council is a high priority task, which we are going to carry out quickly. Moreover, we have taken note of the views expressed by various members of the Committee and largely agree with what is said there. It is the government’s clear view that talents and knowledge are fairly equally distributed between sexes, between age categories and between different parts of the country. It is the government's policy in this area, as in all other areas, that we should draw on the competences that exist throughout the country, in all age groups and in both sexes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e117	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2294]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e133	The big business often adopts reforms and other paradigm shifts. The National Audit Office’s report on the study of mental health protection is a description of such a major change in paradigm. The action plan adopted in 1998 pointed to failure at all stages, the need for a change in mentality, the restructuring and expansion of the whole service provider. SEK 2.1 billion in operational funds and DKK 3.7 billion in investment funds were earmarked for strengthening the psychiatric specialist health service during the planning period, and then primarily for adult psychiatry. Child and youth psychiatry was, if not, a stepchild in the escalation plan, at least not thoroughly enough or comprehensively treated in its time. The national audit, which we are dealing with here today, does not include child and youth psychiatry either, but it is worth writing behind the ear that a special and new strategy plan for children and young people comes in a short time, so that the Storting gets the opportunity to rectify something that didn't get the attention it deserved in its time. For example, only in a few years have A new party baptism generation grew up and created even greater pressure on the psychiatry. The aim of the National Audit Office has been to examine the quality of the county plans as a management tool for the implementation of the escalation plan and whether adequate follow-up procedures were in place. As mentioned above, the study is limited to adult psychiatry and the development of district psychiatric centres in terms of day-to-day treatment, day-care, outpatient clinics, personnel and economics in the plans. The national audit concludes that the county plans are not informative, consistent or comparable enough to function properly as a management tool due to a lack of leadership from the department. An overall committee refers to this and has noted that the then Ministry of Health and Social Affairs spent two years approving the county plans, among others. in view of the varying quality of these plans. The question then is what meaning this has actually had. Did the escalating plan literally end up in the drawer? Or did not the long approval period lead to any significant delays at all? But if there was a delay: what were then possible reasons for these, and what might have been the consequences of them? Deciding that the psychiatric offer should be strongly decentralised is simple enough. Doing it with some powerful forces, however, is not as easy. The question of how a daily worker works and cooperates in municipalities and specialist health services is not regulated in planning documents. There are no clear standards of need assessment and coverage, either nationally or internationally. These tasks can and should be resolved differently, including: in the light of different local conditions. The importance of cooperation highlighted in various governance signals and circulars and the provisions of the Patient Rights Act on the right to individual plans is a tool that should be used, but it has not been used actively everywhere. However, at the intersection of nine-time ministerial follow-up and local adaptations, there is a balancing problem, to say the least, with caution. A completely new thinking on health policy did not imply very small mentality and attitude changes in those who were going to implement it in practice. The State Health Authority carried out in its time completed written feedback on the county municipality's first draft plan proposal, and a conference was held with each county municipality. The Committee shares the Ministry's view that this was important, as it was not just about a development plan but about anchoring a qualitative new way of thinking. In general, laws, regulations, circulars and directives are not always the only or most effective means of implementing psychological changes in either users or employees, to put it that way. Thus, the two-year approval period did not leave the plan untreated, nor did the process lead to significant delays in the realisation of the escalation plan. In addition to the Department’s psychological processing — if it is permitted to use such an expression — of professional environments, which in some places objected to it, and local actors were set up every year to develop and develop projects in the counties. Neither these nor the State were awaiting the finalisation of the plans until the necessary measures were taken. The National Audit Office has pointed out late progress after three years, and both a majority and a minority in the Committee see the need for stronger follow-up and redeployment over the last three years of the planning period, given that after three years, the Storting had only granted 20 pst. of the total means of escalating. However, this also had a natural explanation that the escalation plan assumed a cautious escalation in the early years, due to staff access. The recruitment situation is, moreover, now a small point of light. In addition, in the 2003 state budget there is a steep increase in the last half of the planned period in the form of an increase of 670 million. kr. A separate list of investments has recently been submitted by the Department, and I again show that a separate notification for children and young people will be submitted in a short time. Finally, however, an overall committee, as I said, points out the need for a redundancy in health businesses until 2006. Some may say – and perhaps rightly – that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have a more passive approach in their particular comments. But, as we can see, we do not have major problems either with the intention or the proposal as such, but more with regard to the principle of the division of labour between the committees of the Stortinge. This is explained in more detail in our special remarks, which thus does not imply any material disagreement with the number of committees.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e163	There is every reason to be concerned about developments in the supply of people with mental disorders. Especially alarming is the fact that more and more children and young people end up in psychiatry and stay there for long periods, or their entire lives. From this point of view, I am pleased that the Riksrevision has highlighted the implementation of the Staging Plan Stortinget adopted in 1998. The report states that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health was not sufficiently clear to the county councils when the requirements for the plans were designed. Nor has the Ministry given much attention to quality and design when approving the plans, claims the Riksrevision. It may not be that all plans should be the same, and the Stortinget has opened up for local playrooms. I have to admit that I have an understanding of the department's some restraint in putting too strong a commitment on how the county councils are going to solve their tasks. Of course, that doesn't mean that you have to have four of the quality requirements in any way. It is therefore important that the weaknesses identified by the Riksrevision and agreed by the Ministry be corrected. Changes in society face new challenges. It is important to adapt the psychiatric health services to the community we live in. We therefore need to keep under constant pressure in the prevention and treatment of mental disorders. In these questions, the Workers' Party has been in many ways associated with the government parties, but during the discussion of the budget for the current year, we made it clear that we cannot be satisfied with the fact that the waiting time is still so long for children, young people and adults. In this setting, the Workers' Party, together with SV and the Advance Party, is committed to demanding a stronger follow-up to health care companies' efforts to offer psychiatric patients. Just the transfer to healthcare companies provides an increased opportunity to exercise influence and to manage the investment in this important area. It is necessary to require the construction of district psychiatric centres. An evaluation of the progress made, in the context of the 2004 State Budget, as requested by the majority of the Committee, will be an important tool for achieving the objective of a satisfactory offer to patients. I will nevertheless challenge the Council of State to give its assessment of the actual state of the psychiatry plans now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e178	We are pleased that the Riksrevision took the important job of looking at what was going to be the most important investment in health and living conditions for psychiatric patients. If one takes into account the possible consequences of the criticism raised in this report, it is really a very serious criticism. The result is that mentally ill people do not get the help that both they, the relatives and the local community around them had reason to expect when the escalation plan was adopted in 1998. The background to the plan was that people with mental disorders, those with the worst lifestyles, were also the ones who received the weakest offer from the helper. My soul worked with psychiatry planning in a municipality before I entered the Stortinget. I remember the enthusiasm for the work and the belief that there would finally come a help that was more differentiated, more adapted to the individual and not least more coordinated between the various help agencies. And the plan brought in the whole thing: health, work, housing, culture, support contacts, etc. - That's what life is all about. Now I encounter frustration outside that one has not been allowed to do the job as well as one could. We in SV do not say that the help has not improved, but that the escalation plan has come as close as you could expect. This means that many people who need help to grasp their lives do not get help, because the plans have been flawed, because it has been too long before plans have been approved, and because the escalation work has therefore come about at a very close distance soon enough. An overall social committee just expressed its concern about this in the budgetary position for 2003. So there has been only a marginal decrease in the waiting lists in psychiatry, and especially in childhood and youth psychiatry. Now, as the rapporteur said, the Riksrevision report only deals with adult psychiatry, but we also have a duty to take into account in the debate the information provided in the Health Supervision Communication for 2002. For every day a psychiatric patient does not get help, it can be dramatic, but extra evil is it for children and young people, who are in their most vulnerable phase. So they can't wait. The escalation plan specifically highlighted the need for coordination of the local auxiliary and specialist health services. District Psychiatric Centres should in a way be a cooperative venue and cooperate as a challenge. The report shows that cooperation actions are lacking in more than half of the plans. It does not comment in the first instance, but comments later that the requirement for individual plans has been incorporated into health laws. What is helpful when the Health Inspectorate’s report for 2002 shows that less than one fifth of the municipalities and the paediatric psychiatric outpatient clinics have started working on individual plans. Health surveillance concludes with an almost total lack of individual plans for children and adolescents with mental disorders. In some outpatient clinics, one does not know that the law applies to all patients under mental health protection, it is said. Furthermore, it is said that health care, in particular the prescriber, but also the health and school health services, is not systematically involved in cooperation. The supervision reveals a lack of knowledge of the competences, responsibilities and powers of the partners. The result, says the supervision, is that the municipalities do not refer to all the children concerned, that the available resources are not used, and that the right services are not provided to the children who have the most needs. This shows that some of the developments have been out of control. A colloquial report shows that seas about the Storting have adopted an escalation plan, and that psychiatry has been allocated a less relative share of resources than other health services, so they lose in relation to the somatic environment. The Control Committee expresses its view that mental health protection is part of the infrastructure of the welfare state and must be under political and democratic governance and control. But what's going on in health businesses? Decisions are partly taken without public debate and in closed board rooms. The result is a number of places that the development of offers is being scrapped, including: District Psychiatric Centres and standing unoccupied. The fact that something is going to be except public debate and, therefore, also, we believe, with the exception of democratic control and governance, was one of our criticisms about the reform of health enterprises. We believe that we now need national health plans adopted by the Stortinget and committed to health businesses, and in particular this is important in relation to mental health spending. We are pleased that there is a majority who say that we now need to have an evaluation report, possibly an extended timeframe for the implementation of the plan, and, if necessary, make proposals for increased resources. We are absolutely convinced that is needed – that is what the department also needed this year, and it was prepared to give priority to this year as well. However, in the evaluation work that needs to be done, child and youth psychiatry must be lifted, as well as the offers for those with both drug problems and mental health problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e201	It is gratifying that the Riksrevision has carried out that review as far as the psychiatry plan available here. What's now going to be the big question, of course, is how the things and the signals coming from the Riksaudition are being followed up at a later stage, so that we can get a better look at the issues that are being raised here. For what has also been mentioned earlier, among other things. It is very important by the representative of Ågot Valle, who is concerned with district psychiatric centres. This is one of the main pillars for the psychiatry plan to work out in the districts and out where people live. Since we have closed down what used to be central institutions, district psychiatric centers are also important. There you get the help you need, and there you have the skills you need to give people the help they need. The psychiatric plan adds to a very steep increase in the use of funds at the end of the planning period. We see that clearly and clearly it can be problematic. There are so large funds to be phased in at the end of a planning period that there is reason to question whether this really is feasible, or whether we come to the point that there is a matter for the Storting that it cannot be done, and that the plan must be pushed forward in time. This is fear. I think we should have been better at phased in more resources and made sure to develop further competence at a previous stage of the plan. I think this needs to be done in a better way than the case, cf. inter alia: media surveys today on the use of coercive measures in psychiatry in Norway, which is highest in the world. We're talking up to 37 pst. coercion in psychiatry in Norway. It's alarming, at least when we look at those countries that there's reason to compare us with. In addition, there is the use of medication in psychiatry. It's also a sign that we should have had more resources, better manning, better offer, so that we can get to the problems before they occur, or at an early stage when they occur. I also think it is important that we carry out a review of the psychiatry plan that has already been adopted. I think we need it. There have been several signals that actually show that there may be reason to review the psychiatry plan to capture some of the things that I have mentioned earlier, among others. coercion, drug use, lack of development of district psychiatric centres. I think these things are very important, not least when it comes to child and youth psychiatry. This is one of the most important points that we now have to bet on. It's too slow, we have to get better, and we have to take this more seriously and don't push it in front of us. I hope that we will soon be able to review the psychiatry plan, and hope that the Government will give priority to this work and make sure that we can now have a new assessment of the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e214	The present case concerns an area in which it is essential that we obtain results to help individuals affected by mental illness. In addition, there is a field of high political priority across party-political dividing lines. The criticism that arises, on this basis, I take it very seriously. In its study, the National Audit Office has limited its assessments to adult psychiatry and the development of district psychiatric centres. I would like to remind you at the outset that the escalation plan includes much more: development of the community service system, including the development of housing organised for mental health interventions in labour-oriented interventions, information recruitment, education, empowerment and research; And not least: a comprehensive change of mind with emphasis on user involvement, mastering a decentralised service apparatus; Even before the plan was adopted, it was clear that lack of professionals and lack of plans would be a bottleneck compared to the desired investment. Psychiatric counsellors were therefore set up to follow-up work on the plans. There was a broad consensus that the plans were necessary, but there was also a broad consensus on getting the process under way, even if the plans were not in place. I understand the criticism that it was used up for two years to approve the county plans. At this stage, however, there was an extensive process of following up on the plan. In addition to holding conferences and establishing planning networks with counties in order to provide a basis for a common understanding of the objectives and instruments of the escalation plan, it was approved and implemented in close proximity to 50 major and smaller investment projects, so that the planning process did not hinder the launching of the escalation plan. The size is based on the progress of the budget proposals for the respective years. As regards the function of plans as a basis for the follow-up of results in the specialist healthcare service, I would like to point out that the relevant criteria in the plans are the same as those used in the Collaborate on Mental Health Protection. This means that, both at national level and for each country or region, a system of annual monitoring of the achievement of results has been established in relation to the quantitative targets for the whole escalation plan and for each country-by-country plan. One of the key prerequisites for improved cooperation between primary and specialised health services is the development of district psychiatric centres and decentralised paediatric and juvenile psychiatric outpatient clinics. However, the question of how a daily worker works and cooperates in municipalities and specialist health services is not regulated in planning documents. However, the importance of such cooperation is highlighted in guidance signals, circulars and guidance to municipalities and the specialist health service. The provisions of the Patient Rights Act on the right to individual plans shall constitute an important tool for improving cooperation between health care levels. I think we have to admit that the work on implementing the individual plans has come too short. I have therefore placed great emphasis on the use of individual plans as a tool for cooperation, both in relation to the municipalities and to health companies and other government agencies under my responsibility. I would like to stress that of the 78 district psychiatric centres mentioned in the county plans, 61 are already established, while the additional 17 are under construction or design. Of the 61 district psychiatric centers currently established, 32 are to be further developed, not covering all functions. I also want to mention the large increase in the number of people now receiving help, compared to what the situation was before the escalation plan. This applies to all groups, but especially to children and young people, where the number of people receiving help has increased by 40 pst. in three years. I would also like to remind you that the waiting time for adults has fallen from three to two months during 2001 and 2002. This shows that the escalation plan produces results. However, there is also a clear awareness that while the supply is increasing, the number of people receiving help is increasing, not the same as the drop in the waiting list. A minority of the Committee notes that, in their opinion, ‘the first two years of the psychiatry plan were completely out of control’. I cannot see that nothing has been presented in the national audit report that supports such a claim. As previously pointed out, the two-year authorisation process did not prevent a planned cooperation between the department and county councils in order to achieve the objectives of the escalation plan. And I would like to remind you that both the big news about the psychiatry and the rapture plan itself contain relatively detailed objectives and leads from the Stortinge side, which were of course the basis of the first few years before the state plans were put in place. St. pp. point 1 for 2002-2003 contained a comprehensive progress report and a review of the overall objectives and strategies of the escalation plan. I have noted that the Storting on its treatment did not have any comments on this. In its proposal for a decision, the Government is asked to provide an updated update of the status of the escalation plan for the 2004 budget proposal. The work on this is already under way, and I will follow up such a decision through a broad report on the status and proposals for necessary adjustments in the 2004 budget proposal. Finally, let me remind you that the hospital reform provides a basis for a clearer and more direct follow-up of businesses to achieve the objectives of the escalation plan. The Ministry has made clear, by letter to regional health establishments, the governance arrangements for the management of investments by enterprises and the projects to be included in the overall plan during the remainder of the escalation period. For the 2003 budget year, the Ministry is working on a specific follow-up to investment in health enterprises in general and investment in mental health protection, and on the projects that enterprises need to implement this year. The Ministry’s management of regional health enterprises will mainly take place through two positions. First of all, it is the Ministry's annual management document. The governance documents of the regional health establishments for this year clearly highlight the high priority of the implementation of the escalation plan. In addition, a planning and reporting system will be set up in which undertakings will have to report to the Ministry on their activities and results and report on the plans for the coming year. This system will form the basis for the Ministry's annual management dialogue with the enterprises and will be the basis for the Ministry's feedback to the Stortinget in the annual budgetary documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e266	The National Audit Office writes in its report that the review is confined to adult psychiatry. There may be good reasons for defining a report, such as examining it, to be so extensive that it would be inappropriate to make the screening work too wide. Nevertheless, there is some symptom in that it is adult psychiatry and not the paediatric psychiatry that you have primarily put on the search light. This means that children and young people who suffer harm do not get the main focus on the deficiencies that exist in the treatment of this group. All indications now suggest that the condition is very serious in the treatment of children and young people. If you look at different articles that have been published only in the last month, you can, for example: Read in the Evening Post on March 10: ‘Children and young people with mental health problems face irresponsible services, failing cooperation and inadequate plans’. This is based on information provided by the State Health Authority. In addition, it says: ‘Communities and health businesses spend money intended for mentally ill children and young people on other tasks claims the Ministry of Health’. In addition, Tor Visnes, of Haukeland Hospital, claims to receive treatment for psychotic children who are much more ill than they experienced a few years ago. An article in the nations on March 13 reads: “More and more children with mental health problems end up in children’s homes instead of in psychiatry.” The children's and family life in the municipality of Oslo points this out to the Ministry of Health. In some cases, mental disorders can, according to the same department, be clearly dominant. But in spite of that, most people are placed in child protection institutions, based on the Children's Protection Act, instead of in psychiatric institutions based on the Law on Mental Health Protection. The article in the United Nations points to something that has not been mentioned by any of the speakers, namely that this is not necessarily just a matter of resources, but it is also a matter of legislation. What is said from the Children's Protection Act is that it is often difficult to find a basis in the Law on Mental Health Protection, and that instead it is the Children's Protection Act that is used. The representative of the Party of Advance Countries, Nesvik, was concerned about the high proportion of coercive use in hospitalisation in Norway. There may be complex reasons for this, including the different design of the law in Norway, so that, at the time of instituation, voluntary forced entry cannot be converted. However, it is at least important to point out that when it is initially not possible to obtain treatment by other means, including in the case of children and young people, there is a need to provide a means of dealing with the need, and, of course, to limit the use of coercion when it should not be used. However, it is quite clear from the many reports that have been made on the escalation plan that there is a special need now to look at responses to children and young people. And if there's one area where the escalation plan is lagging behind, it's exactly when it comes to children and young people and their treatment. It makes it possible to get signals about a review from the National Audit Office just in that field. I should also have wanted the Minister of Health to comment on some of the latest information, because they are going on the use of resources on the wrong premises. There have been a number of headlines in the media that say that psychiatry does not get the money it should have had, and that it is also partly cut within different psychiatric measures, despite the fact that the Storting has adopted a escalation plan. There's been a theme all the time in this room. Obviously, it also helps to reinforce the problems we see. SV wrote a letter to the Ministry of Health in February asking for an overview of the state of waiting. What we see is that there is a waiting time for treatment among children and adolescents in 92 days, while the equivalent within adult psychiatry is 54. The figures do not show significant changes for any of the two categories, and it is completely unchanged within adult psychiatry. But it is clear that when children have to wait almost twice as long as adults have to do to get to a treatment they are in great need, it is alarming. If ever results could have been achieved quickly and much faster than in other groups, it was precisely by treating children in an emergency phase. But we see that it's the exact opposite. It's the adults who wait half as long, it's not the children. This makes it urgent to launch targeted actions to achieve results for this group, also in a longer-term perspective, if we are to see over time that mental disorders in the population come under control, even as children and young people grow up to and reach adult age.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e299	I want to use the opportunity to underline what others have been about, the importance of individual plans. Where it has been used, as the good tool it is, it has been well spent time and a good investment, which in the long run saves resources and saves unnecessary use of time afterwards. In the case of children and young people, as I mentioned in my introduction, a separate strategy plan for children and young people will be presented. The size comes back to it, and we can then discuss the situation for children and young people in its full width. As I also mentioned in my introduction, the Right and Christian People's Party agree with the intention and comments that justify the majority proposal for an evaluation. With regard to our fundamental remarks, I'm not going to say anything about the extent to which this has gone into a general health policy debate or not. I would just like to point out that we are given the opportunity to discuss some aspects of the Frøiland Committee, where we can take some borderlines between responsibility control, governance control and policy design. I would just like to point out, on a general basis, the general danger of the Committee of Inquiry acting as an appeal body for the adoption of general policy initiatives in other specialist committees. But to the extent that it is possible in these days to contribute to the cheerfulness of the mind and only disagree where it is absolutely necessary to disagree, I will finally ask the representatives of the government parties to join the committee majority's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e306	When children and young people suffer, when children and young people's mental health are threatened, I think we all know that we are suffering, and that we are upset when the auxiliaries are unable to provide the help that is needed. I share that reaction with those who have spoken the case of child and youth psychiatry here today. It's a fact that more people get help – 40 pst. more than three years of age in childhood and youth psychiatry — but it is a fact, and it is serious, that at the same time it increases the need for help. We can do a lot of reflections on what causes it, but at least there is no doubt that children and young people should be given priority in health businesses and in municipal services as regards the management of these earmarked funds. In these days, I'm putting my last hand on a separate strategy within the child-young people's escalation plan to sharpen those priorities, to clarify the priorities for everyone working in this field. I have in a circular that distributes these earmarked funds to the municipalities for 2003, said that at least 20 pst. Of the funds allocated to municipalities for mental health, action should be taken for children and young people. We will come back to Stortinget with a report, as it is expected that the Stortinget will decide today, and I think we all have to have humility in relation to what is presented as a status compared to the need to adjust the course. At least I want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e315	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2294]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e330	I have to admit that the situation in the world today, at least for my part, is not the one that makes it easier to focus on the long lines of environmental policy. But I can try. So we are discussing the Riksrevision report on the authorities' work on contaminated land and contaminated seabeds caused by the activities of the past. This is an area that is often easy to forget, but at the same time the consequences of not doing enough are that we get a use and throw-relationship to areas. And we can all imagine how it's going to work if we're always going to use new areas, not clean up after us in the places we've messed up. Then we finally end up in a corner without having any places left to be. The Committee stresses that the clean-up work on old environmental sins is very important to reduce the risk of serious pollution problems, but also to ensure the efficient and safe use of the restricted areas we have to manage. Therefore, of course, laws, regulations and regulations relating to the handling of special waste must also be based on a precautionary principle. There is a complex area of the National Audit Office which has been examined and examined here, and the Committee acknowledges that the scope has been so large that reducing the risk of serious pollution problems to a minimum has been more extensive and more complex than what was initially observed. That is why the Committee also understands the need to adjust the ambitions and objectives in this area several times. But it's equally unfortunate when we set important goals, that we're still going to have to adjust the level of ambition. The Committee stresses that although these delays we have made have been well justified, it is now necessary that we reach fully documented target achievement by the end of 2005, by the end of the 100 most serious cases at that time, that the need for action of 500 sites has been identified, and that the main weight of sites requiring investigation has been clarified – simply to break the trend of persistent delays and to demonstrate that the authorities are able to deliver what has been adopted. The Committee is pleased that, in order to ensure control of progress, regular status reports will be carried out in relation to the implementation plans for the remaining tasks and the associated deadlines. The Committee asks that the Stortinge should be properly briefed on the content of the regular status reports. There are different instruments we have to use in relation to this clearing work. Of course, you want to start with the good first. At the same time, we see that it may not have been enough when we have so far been restrained by the use of the coercive agents of the pollution law. But we see that we are now at risk of not achieving the goals we have set ourselves, and in this context, the Committee welcomes the fact that both the SFT and the county government are now putting up for increased use of coercion where necessary to achieve the desired result. Furthermore, there are several different instruments and approaches to be considered. There I am confident that the Ministry will facilitate the use of the tools needed to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. Another important aspect is the coordination of drug use. The National Audit Office’s report shows that the Ministry of the Environment has, to a small extent, coordinated the use of instruments aimed at clean-up, and lack of coordination and overall governance helps the sectors to work very differently compared to resolving pollution from past activities. In the light of the criticisms of the National Audit Office and the clear cross-sectoral challenges in this area, the Governing Board calls on the Government to take more active responsibility, to involve and coordinate the sectoral authorities concerned and to keep the Storting informed of this in the regular status reports. The Committee points out that cross-sectoral coordination and cooperation are also important after 2005, both for contaminated land and for contaminated sediment work. In the work on contaminated sediments, we have come somewhat shorter, for natural reasons, and the Committee also asks that, in addition to the regular status reports and the progress of contaminated land work, the Government also report on the progress in the clean-up of contaminated sediments. I would also like to refer to the Committee's comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e358	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2294]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e378	Hedmark is a great country with many opportunities and challenges. Hedmark and Uppland are quite similar countries in the interior. Now when I'm talking about Hedmark the most, it's because of course I have my heart in my own state. We have proven that we have both the ability and the willingness to do the job ourselves, but we want to get the authorities' attention and access to the state's instruments to a greater extent than is the case today. That's the background for this interpolation. Hedmark has spread settlements, but here too there are smaller towns and cities that have grown relatively strongly. In Hedland and Uppland, agriculture and forestry mean much more than for the country as a whole. Agriculture and forestry have been and will continue to be the cornerstone of business and employment. It is therefore necessary for the Government to draw up a plan and guidance on soil and forest, including new areas such as bio-chemistry and bio-energy linked to this. Several members of the Government have expressed the need for more government intervention. Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim stated to the Municipal Report on 30 January of this year: ‘The regional policy challenges we face here in this country are mainly domestic issues. Coast Norway now has such strong growth incentives that it is almost problematic to distribute them.’ Hedmark and Uppland have a so-called traditional industry based on raw materials from forests and soil. This need not necessarily be an industry that is on its way out, rather on the contrary. Despite all the uncertainty about the development of the industrial and industrial activities of the future, people cannot live without food, houses, warmth and experiences. Our raw materials base, forest, soil, water and nature, are thus important future approaches, but what determines how we get it into is the ability to change and innovation. We need to have the ability to see important trends in time and put our economic development into this future. Building innovation means connecting people, knowledge and productive capacity with such future trends. In many cases it becomes a matter of attitudes and culture. Why in the world should we always wait for something to be gone before we build something new? The new must also be built on what we have. Then we have to figure out what we have and what we're missing. Hedmark and Uppland have 45 pst. of the country's productive forest area. In addition to producing tables and planks, we are sitting on the main bioenergy resource in the country. A conscious policy to create a market for bioenergy in general will thus be a major help to the domestic economy. We have the most important research and production facilities in the country linked to livestock production and bioteching in this area. We all have the prerequisites for not only being the best in the country, but also becoming a significant international actor. Ecology and nature management as well – we can be the country's foremost and also noticed internationally for the production of green values. Hedmark has the largest freshwater resources in the country, a much more vital access for people than even oil. We have the best facilities in the country for experience and sports, not least natural experiences. For both Hedmark and Uppland, tourism is an important industry. In Trysil, winter tourism has evolved into a solid industry, but here the state can contribute to further development, not least in summer tourism. Hedmark has the country's third largest hospital, and the defense's core area is here. Despite the fact that we have a short way to the main aerodrome, this hasn't turned out to be so far a big move. There are three main intruders who need help. First, I would like to mention that the state has established an instrument where SND and SIVA have given important development roles. On the domestic side, it would be an important signal to all actors engaged in entrepreneurial activity and development that the SND’s overall instruments were made available without geographical constraints in both Hedmark and Oppland counties. SIVA must be involved in the land-based industry as soon as possible, in line with its high level of involvement in the fisheries and other marine industries. As an example, I can mention that the municipality of Ringsaker has a centrally located industrial area where the three companies SPIS meat processing, Gro vegetable processing and Stabburet jam are located. The municipality and the companies want SIVA to enter and upgrade and adapt the facility, but it has not been easy to get SIVA on the road. Here we need the assistance of the Council of State to get it done. It is absolutely necessary to give municipalities greater levers in the field of industrial development and to make instruments such as SIVA and SND fully available to the Mjø region. Another need for domestic help is the construction of physical infrastructure. Here I would like to mention the need for the construction of new Rv 2 and E6 as well as a conscious policy for the Rørosbanen in terms of freight and timber transport, which will mean a relief for Rv 3. I don't know if the government has discussed the relocation of state jobs from Oslo. State councillor Lars Sponheim has stated that adding state supervision to Trondheim and Bergen should not be called district policy, and he says the following to Municipal Report: ‘It is only an attempt to correct the regional imbalances.’ I agree with Victor Norman, who claims that he wants to use the whole country, but unfortunately he has forgotten an important area, namely the inland. I expect Norman to fix this next time when it comes to the decentralization of state competence. And another point: it is important for the state to set up when local initiatives raise capital for development. If the Government with the Minister of Industry at its head extends the scope of some state instruments, and the Minister of Transport opens up the construction of heavy infrastructure, we can gather in Hedmark and Uppland and take our legitimate share of instruments and interesting tasks that are available to everyone. The possibilities are in order, and I know that there's a lot to be done in Hedmark and Uppland. But a certain vital drag help to get the possibilities triggered doesn't hurt.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e434	The representative of the Fall is absolutely right in that Hedmark is a great state, and I feel that the representative of the Fall has a great and solid commitment to his state. The questions raised in this interview are very important and relevant, not only for the country, Hedmark and Uppland, but for the whole country. There is no doubt that the domestic economy has special challenges in creating new jobs and developing a growth-oriented business. Inland is, as the representative of the Fallet refers to, characterized by typical agricultural and forestry traditions and traditional industries, industries that are not expected to grow in the future. With expected and necessary developments in agriculture, and the challenges of forestry related, inter alia, to: the price of timber, the inland regions must demonstrate a high capacity for conversion and innovation. In addition, both Uppland and Hedmark are among the least educated regions in the country. This must be seen in the context of an industrial structure, as described by the representative Fall, who has been low-skilled. The fact that the innovation activity of a region depends to a large extent on the structure of industry and the level of education shows some of the challenges facing the hinterland. Looking at today's situation, Hedmark and Uppland are below the national average in the number of unemployed. This year’s February figures show that, unfortunately, the country average had risen to 3.9pst. The unemployment rate in Hedmark is 3.3 pst. And in Uppland it's actually down to 2.9 pst. The current situation is thus relatively well compared with some other areas in Norway, but there is no doubt that the challenges in the future will be significant. The government is aware of domestic challenges. It should be attractive to develop, operate and own activities throughout Norway, but we cannot politically decide who will succeed or not. We believe that the challenges we face in both Hedmark and Uppland as well as in the rest of the country are best solved by the ability to create significantly more robust framework conditions, so that businesses can focus on the changes that happen at any time and that they will be able to master them. The government wants to contribute to business providing the basis for future growth through increased innovation. This applies to both smaller and larger enterprises. Among other things, we have the extended tax credit scheme for research and development expenditure by enterprises. It is very gratifying that the business community has made far more use of this scheme than the government had estimated in the budget. A good industrial policy should always contribute to facilitating economic transformation and to making new knowledge and skills easily available to enterprises and industries in transition. Enterprises' strategic response to migration needs and increased competition is innovation. Continuous innovation can contribute to better products and services, increase profitability and provide a basis for long-term growth. There are many market conditions that can limit the ability of enterprises to innovate. Critical elements include access to new knowledge and competence, access to risky or competent capital for new projects and perhaps not least networks of partners, customers or suppliers. The Government will present an action plan for a comprehensive innovation policy in relation to the 2004 budget. A comprehensive innovation policy involves, inter alia: the coherence of several policy areas. Key policy areas included in such a policy will primarily be the general framework conditions for business, but also, as the representative was involved, entrepreneurship, the start-up of new activities, research, development, knowledge and competence — and infrastructure, including transport. In today’s situation, there is a need for a policy to enable businesses to choose an offensive strategy based on innovation, which will increase competitiveness and profitable, sustainable jobs. Norwegian competitive business is facing significant challenges. As a starting point for industrial policy, the Government aims at contributing to the continuation of strong and competitive business in Norway. A responsible economic policy is and will be the main contribution of the Government to ensuring the competitiveness of businesses. The government budget presented in the autumn has had as an important starting point to contribute to a lower interest rate and a lower exchange rate. Since the presentation of the budget, the Bank of Norway has reduced interest rates three times, a total of 1 1⁄2 percentage points. In the year 20 February, Governor Svein Gedrem gave signals that interest rates could be further reduced beyond spring and summer. However, a moderate wage settlement and continued tightness in public budgets are prerequisites for this. If the government spends more oil money to dampen the downturn now, the result will only be a risk of pressures in the economy and thus continue to be high interest rates and high prices. It will not be in favour of industry and industry, either domestically or elsewhere. The government wants lower taxes as part of the improvement of the business framework. Most of the total of 19 billion kroner we have had in tax reductions in 2003 have also benefited business, and, as far as I can see, very much also through the inter-pellant voices. The government's work on business simplification is another priority area. It has been removed approx. 500 regulations, in addition to, as I said, the removal of acquisition laws and investment charges. The aim of the Government is that Norwegian legislation should be as resource-intensive as possible and should appear as an advantage for enterprises located in Norway. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has set up an impact assessment unit to help assess the impact on business at an early stage in the work on changes to public legislation and public reform. At the end of March, the government will present a proposal on the arrangement and organisation of the direct instruments we have to the business community. Priority will be given to targeting measures that maximise industrial development in relation to the resources made available. The active substances should move in the same direction, and we therefore propose that they contribute to achieving an overall objective of increasing innovation for business. The instrument shall be better organised to meet the needs of users as best they can. We have put the customer, the individual trader, at the centre of this work. Work has also been carried out in close cooperation with industry. Let's do that, for example. by proposing that today’s SND offices and the Outpatient Offices of the Norwegian Export Council be a common user front for all the main instruments. This user front shall not only lead the way from a number of institutions but have the competence to serve users where they are. We want to merge SND, Norway's Export Council and the State's Inventors' Guidance Office. That is what we believe will make a stronger effort and will focus in particular on innovation and internationalisation. This will enable the direct instruments to provide more innovation and a more competitive business. Drug use should be aligned with regional challenges and needs and have flexibility to take account of the differences we have in our long-term country. In addition to good general business framework conditions, the Government has actively intervened in Uppland and Hedmark through means of conversion from the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. This and previous governments have gone in with 75 million. kr in conversion funds. The Morning for the two Uppland and Hedmark counties has received 25 million since 2000. kr. Conversion programmes have been carried out in both counties and in several municipalities. The county council has, through the new role of regional development operator, taken over the management of these funds. Thus, the county receives a greater responsibility for contributing to innovation and development in regional business environments. For Uppland and Hedmark, there is reason to believe that the Raufoss environment, the forest industry, the food industry, winter tourism and agricultural origin establishments have special conditions on which it would be natural to build further. The workplaces of the future must be based on the business environments and competences we have today, and on ongoing change and renewal. It will also be able to benefit from the new regional food fund, which will amount to a total of DKK 1 billion, of which SEK 500 million. kr has already been granted in the 2003 state budget. The scheme shall stimulate innovation and strengthen the business environment in economically vulnerable areas. In summing up what the Government considers to be its main task in securing industrial development and jobs in the home country, it is primarily to provide a good general framework for business. Within these frameworks, it is initially up to each activity to adapt in a way that ensures profitability and safe jobs. It will be done in natural cooperation with the instrument you have at all times, with the means we should have put in.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e476	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It can be interpreted very positively. I want with this interpellation to prevent sutring from becoming a new main activity in the interior. We're not stated, but we're a little tired of all the shadows we're incessantly getting into. That's why we want to put the spotlight on an instrument that can have more flexibility. I referred to companies in one of the municipalities in Hedmark, Ringsaker. When firms apply for SIVA, apply for SND and have good projects, the projects and the content of the measure should determine whether the aid is eligible. We hope that the Council of State can assess greater flexibility, so that we are not prevented from further developing. In general, innovation activity is lower in Norway than in other European countries. In Hedmark and Uppland, there is a weaker situation than in the rest of the country. It's a reality. Improving this requires a wide range of measures, and much needs to be done in the companies themselves, we know that. Publicly, the main role is to support the development of competences and research. In Hedmark, we have strong professional and research environments in the field of biotechnology in the agricultural sector. I can also mention companies like Norsvin, Geno and Kisse. Our breeding organisations are strong national and international, and in a national biotechnology effort it is important that one not only concentrate on the marine sector. We're taking some further steps in our counties to bring together domestic biotechnology efforts through a "House of Biotechnology" in Hamar. Colleges in Hedmark and Oppland cooperate across county borders and have gradually achieved strong cooperation. We hope that the instrument can extend to our states of the interior.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e491	I experience both the interpellation that is formulated, and the representative of the Fallet's post as being forward-looking in the sense that one is looking for opportunities to meet tomorrow's challenges. And you have, as was said, no desire to become world champion in sutring. I think that is a very reasonable starting point. I also feel that both in the competence environment in these two states and in the business community that I have met – I'm going to Hedmark tonight – it's the same go-on mood that I meet elsewhere. The representative referred to previous statements relating to different shadows that you might have been in, and I can understand a little of the frustration that has sometimes occurred in relation to the fact that some of the areas of activity that we have had, not least in research, in a way that has not benefited the interior, in the sense that it has been very much about marine research, the maritime and the oil and gas business. What's the natural resources in the interior are some other things, as mentioned is 45 pst. of Norway’s forest resources in these counties, and very heavy and large in agriculture. I feel quite convinced that in the future there will also be industries derived from these industries, and it was mentioned genetic and biotechnology as possible. With regard to what the representative said that the instrument had to be extended to these two states as well, it is true that there are some district policy instruments that do not apply in these counties, and many of the SND’s activities are linked to district policy and rural policy instruments derived from it. What I can say, however, is – and the government has communicated so far in the meetings we have had with the parties of the Storting – that in the revised national budget we bring some new things, among other things. related to the situation on the labour market, with potential for increasing unemployment in the future, beyond what we have already seen. It's two main tracks we follow. One is to dampen the acute, the other is to secure instruments that also strengthen the possibility that we have something further ahead in time. Then the instrument is very central, and I can at least say that the things we plan, and that come, will definitely benefit the inland in an equivalent way as in other parts of Norway, if I don't say even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e500	Upland and Hedmark are hit hard by the deflagration and reduction of industrial workplaces. For example, Hadeland Glassverk has flagged out large parts of its wine glass production to low-cost countries, moved the warehouse to Sweden and resigned several dozen employees. Norway, the largest manufacturer of kitchens, bathrooms and wardrobes in Norway, has been driving for a long period of four days and experiencing a very difficult market situation, due to small housing construction and insufficient modernisation of dwellings. Of course, employees are afraid of their jobs. These companies are privately owned and privately run, and the salutation of private owners ruling better than the state is at best a myth. Over the county border of Buskerud, Follum Fabriker, part of Norwegian Forest, is experiencing the fact that a dozen employees are to be cancelled, not to say well over a hundred. A little further up in my county, a state-owned industrial giant, Raufoss ASA, feels that it is waving. Here the state has an extra responsibility because the state is a significant owner. The Storting has given its support to the sale of Raufoss ASA, but it has now stranded, and still sits the state as owner and has to seize to find new solutions. I have heard that the only response of the Government and the Council of State to Norwegian business and industry is to pursue a policy that provides a lower interest rate and a lower exchange rate. That, of course, is very important. But it does not relieve the Council of State of the responsibility he has to take action for what can now be done beyond this, and does not unilaterally assign that responsibility to the board. Inland Norway has lived in the oil shadow for too long, in my opinion. In 1994, Uppland got the OL in Lillehammer. It's almost ten years ago, and we can't have to sign for this forever. The outcome of the war between the United States and Iraq can have major consequences for the entire international economy, and thus also for the development of Norway. Many suggest that the increase in unemployment can easily be much higher than the estimates currently available. Therefore, the Storting must show the way, and the Government must become much more active in its industrial policy. I believe that the Government should now take an initiative as soon as possible to set up an innovation company related to the Raufoss environment. It can secure the jobs that are there and ensure development. We need to tighten up the use of tools, so that private individuals who receive SND loans or subsidies cannot use government money to move jobs out of the country and lay down in Norway. It's simply immoral. Upland and Hedmark must have a much greater share of research and development resources, and the inland region must have its fair share of the relocation of state jobs. Here Uppland is really in the shadow. District Norway is actually something more than North Norway. We, who are representatives of the interior of the Stortinget, will now have a more offensive and targeted policy. If the Council of State notices some of what I've said, and does something about it, we'll be a little bit on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e519	When the Business Committee visited Oppland and Hedmark a short time ago, we were met with optimistic companies and offensive companies that have looked at innovation and development and that have looked fixed beyond. Geno and Norsvin are good examples of such enterprises. Nevertheless, relevant issues are addressed by the interpellant. I will commend the Minister of Industry for his answer. I look forward to the action plan for a comprehensive innovation policy that is now being presented. It is time for innovation to be put at the height of this country, and for us to look at all the aspects and instruments that can contribute to innovation in a context. In today's situation, there is a need for a policy to facilitate companies' choice of an offensive strategy based on innovation. It will provide increased competitiveness and profitable jobs. It is such that the only guarantee against unemployment is profitable enterprises. I also want to take the opportunity to point out how effective the government's policy has been. We've had three reductions in interest rates, and the dollar price seems clear to go down. It is the most important contribution we can make to Norwegian competitive business. The Council of State has to promise me that the tight line will continue to apply, so that this development can continue. If the government uses too much oil money to dampen the downturn, the result will be a pressure on the economy, and it will jeopardise the positive development in interest rate and dollar rates. The proposition of the instrument is a very important proposition. I think getting more out of the resources used in the instrumentation is important. So we're talking about getting more money back here. That is why I am pleased that we all have the same overall objective, namely to increase innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e532	It is very important to take value-creating companies into consideration when designing industrial policy and economic policy in our country. A good starting point is to go to the companies and ask: what is it that you are willing to continue your business, expand your business, hire more people and stay in Norway? Then we will, among other things: In reply, we have a sky-high interest rate and crown rate, we have Europe's highest level of charges, we have a high cost level in our country, and we have the highest level of sick leave across Europe – except for a couple of other countries, where something is about to be done about it. Temporary employment must be facilitated. We have a form field that hurts a lot of small businesses at first. We have many, many more things that should be done better. If we are to take the workers seriously, we must meet them at these and other points, and I will take some examples of what the Progress Party believes is right. We need to reduce or eliminate the taxes on wealth, property taxes and inheritance taxes, which are very hard on our businesses and are the most unfair forms of taxation we have in this country. If we are to reverse a negative trend for our businesses, it is absolutely necessary to have world-class tax conditions – i.e. not a little after a while, but considerably better conditions from day one. It will look very positive in terms of investment willingness. We must also take into account that we are far from the markets, have a poor infrastructure, have a small domestic market, etc., which must be compensated for by significant tax relief. And then, in terms of income policy cooperation, we should make improvements for employees through tax reliefs rather than gross wage increases. This will benefit employees, because jobs will be safer, and it will benefit businesses, and you will not charge wages in the form of increased prices of products. The Progress Party also lacks a more active industrial policy on the part of the Government. I'll do some examples of that. Now it is important for the unemployment rate we have to produce some of the transport projects that are still to be carried out, and the state should finance main pipelines for gas. It is striking, almost all other Western countries, that an oil and gas nation that Norway does not yet have a single gas power plant. The construction would have been carried out for the longest time if the authorities had given guarantees not to impose any special demand for CO2 or additional costs through the construction of CO2 management facilities. This could also give ring-effects to Inland Norway. Furthermore, the international efforts of Norway as a tourist country should be strengthened. Here it is about many and district-related jobs. The government should also follow up in the notified instrument proposal decisions taken in the Stortinget to establish several nationwide seed funds and to strengthen Argentum Fund investment. Furthermore, Structural Funds should be set up to link mature enterprises to new initiatives and high-tech areas. [[The President clubs.]] It will also create jobs for Inland Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e549	The President reminds us that speaking time is 3 minutes and will hope that it will be observed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e552	In my opinion, the representative Eirin Fallet addresses a very important issue. We have a development in Norway that is worrying about the hinterland. We see that the economic cycle swings all over the world. Also along the coast there are economic fluctuations, among others. depending on the prices of fish, the availability of resources on fish, etc. But we see that, both along the coast and in the cities, the possibilities in the future are completely different from those in the interior – you can see that there are short-term fluctuations, and if you look in, you can see that there are good opportunities in the future. But unfortunately you don't see that in the interior. In the interior, you don't see the possibilities in the future. I took note of one thing when I was sitting and listening to Gabrielsen's reply: "Who is taking hold, I wrote on a sheet in my place." Who's taking the arrest? And I'm now strictly looking at the Minister of Industry and saying that here the Minister of Industry has to take hold, because there are so long-term negative trends that we are looking ahead to, that it requires a completely different comprehensive governance from what we've been doing in traditional industrial development in Norway, if we're going to save the settlement in the interior. Let me give you an example: when Finland experienced the great unemployment and decline in the economy after the fall of the Wall – what did they do? Well, then the Prime Minister and central government councils decided: we are going to be the leading technology nation in Europe – we are going to be! They decided, the Prime Minister and the Central Councils were ordered: that concept should always be on the desk – one can easily remove both the phone, the PC and everything, but the scheme for us to become a leading technology nation should always be on the writing desk of central government councils and the prime minister. And what did one do? Well, you went to a producer who was running fights and car tires – Nokia, it was hot – and said: you're going to be a leader, we're going to set up 19 cells around Finland, and then we're going to believe what we're doing, and then we're going to bet on knowledge, knowledge, knowledge and leadership. They did it. Why did they do it? Well, because those who were in charge of Finland believed it, and because it was on their desk every day, and because they didn't just talk about it in party speeches, but actually carried it out for a long time. And today's government has to do that. Inland diets must be increased. Get the projects up, leave them on the desk both to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry! Then we bet long-term, and then we're going to rock the inland.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e560	We in the Christian People's Party appreciate the commitment of the representative Fallen in this matter. It's an engagement we all share. History has shown that the best advice against the closure and loss of jobs, whether it is domestic or in the country in general, is that the Storting and the Government are doing their best to pursue a fiscal policy that is appropriate for the time we are in. Now, and with the economic cycle we're facing, it's primarily about pursuing a tight fiscal policy. It is no less important to maintain the objective of pursuing a tight fiscal policy in these troubled times. This will lay the basis for a balanced monetary policy, and thus we are talking about interest rate reductions that we are so dependent on to keep jobs. I would also like to stress the importance of this in relation to the Government's fight against the increasing unemployment, which is now more topical than ever. It is of great importance that we all take responsibility and support in the work of reducing unemployment. I would therefore like to support the work done by the Government in this context, and I would like to point out that, in addition to a tight fiscal policy, there will be several other matters of importance. It is important to do a job on several fronts, because it is sometimes the expression ‘everything is related to everything’ is very relevant in this case. In addition to tight fiscal policies, it is important that businesses have a good framework. In this context, the Government has implemented large tax and tax reliefs, which have mainly benefited companies. At the same time, I am pleased that the Government has concluded a cooperation agreement with the social partners with a view to a more moderate salary settlement for spring, although I am concerned about how the recent look-up on management salaries, bonuses and parachutes will affect the confidence of the employees in this situation. I think the problem of traditional industry is also interesting. However, it would have to be considered here that an enterprise is able to adapt to an ever-changing market. In addition, it is important to be able to create new jobs, and then it is important to focus on research and development. The government has taken a boost here, and the Research Fund has increased by NOK 3 billion. Norway will participate in the 6th EU Framework Programme for Research, research appropriations have increased, and all enterprises are now reduced in tax on research and development appropriations. Last but not least, I also think that the government's contribution to the unemployed through the reorganisation of Aetat is of great importance. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the fact that in the fight against unemployment, it is primarily an economy in balance that is the best instrument. Then it's important that we all work together on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e571	The interpellant addresses a very important issue. When we talk about future industries, it is mainly the maritime sector, the energy sector with oil and gas, and not least the marine sector that is mentioned, i.e. traditional coastal industries. It is, unfortunately, a fact that, in general, Inland Norway has more problems in terms of employment and industrial development than that of Coast Norway. It is a fact that general framework conditions and business neutrality will not lift an area with special problems. There is a need for specific measures to be taken. In the opinion of the Centre Party, it is necessary to put in place targeted measures both in relation to geographical areas and not least in relation to industries where we see that we have natural advantages to do well. Of course, this applies to the industries that I mentioned in the introduction, where we have special opportunities for growth and future employment. But it also applies to the highest degree of geographical areas. They must be stimulated through instruments through SND, SIVA, research funds and not least through development contracts. It is also necessary to facilitate communications, both commuting and freight transport, through continued active and high level of commitment to investments in the road and rail sectors, and to facilitate technological infrastructures geared towards the future of business. The method chosen, among others: The center government to work on by getting into targeted. The employer’s fee was reduced in 32 of the municipalities in connection with the previous round of the employer’s fee in order to stimulate the activity of these municipalities. The industrial estate project was launched in the inland municipalities. It has proved to be a success, and it has proved to be a success in the 30 areas that have been set up. 20 new places are on the wish list and will expand commercial gardens, but the economy suggests that this is not achieved because the appropriations are missing. It is the type of action that needs to be targeted in order to develop the business you want and to address regions with special problems. Unfortunately, the business-neutral policies of the Government and the Minister of Industry are not extended. General framework conditions are necessary, of course, in relation to strengthening our competitiveness as a nation, especially in the export industries. But in addition, targeted action is needed. Regrettably, the Minister of Industry has gone against it, closed most of the targeted instruments and suggested tax relief. That's not good enough. Now the Minister of Industry must address this in a completely different way, and there is reason at least to hope that the action plan and the measures that are being revised are a step in the right direction, not a step forward in the way that has been chosen so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e580	The left is concerned about the development of the economy in the country. I can only show you the statements from our party leader, to which the representative Fallet referred. We are very pleased with the initiative taken by the representative Fallet in this interview. The challenges are great, and it is important that we find the grips that can work long-term and build sustainable business structures. This is also a challenge in the mandate of the district commission. In the opinion of the Left, the development and focus on knowledge, research, technology and entrepreneurship are the main drivers of domestic value. To this end, we welcome the initiative of Gjøvik, Lillehammer and Hedmark on a future inland university. This is a forward-looking project focusing on knowledge development and exchanges between different parts of the region and between students, the professional community and business and social life. If the hinterland is able to strengthen its regional centres to a strong knowledge environment, to strengthen what is good today, this will have a positive effect on both busses, jobs and long-term growth and industrial development. To create a business environment, for innovation and innovation, depends on an industrial competence environment. Ensuring an existing environment of competence, such as: the unique environment on Raufoss is of great importance. It must be invested, and one must further develop what is good in Inland Norway today. There have been many good and useful recordings in the debate today. In the Left's view, traditional industry and agriculture have a future. If we are to be closed to the values that agriculture represents, the resource base of the countryside needs to be used more widely for different industrial developments. We must conduct an effective and structurally adapted agricultural policy and be closed to the modernisation and renewal of it at the same time. Of course, we trust the Minister of Agriculture. We need to establish a entrepreneurial culture, including: to make the most of those linked to agriculture bet on self-employment. Travel life is another important, but often underestimated, food route for Inland Norway. The industry employs about 150,000 people in Norway, and a large part of these are women. The left believes that new measures to make tourism more effective must be assessed. A separate action plan for the industry should be developed. The extension of infrastructure resources to travel and the introduction of so-called tourist tariffs in regions or municipalities with travel life as their main field of activity should be assessed. Both innovation and innovation in agriculture and tourism will be good measures for increased value creation and domestic growth. This is not enough anyway. The Minister of Economic Affairs has pointed out the measures that the Government has taken, and I am very pleased with a leverage for research both in terms of tax deductions and increased promises. Good framework conditions, both for innovation and for the preservation of existing jobs, are the most important things we can contribute to. I hope that when the Government presents its action plan for innovation, it will focus specifically on coordinating the tools and creating a growth time for entrepreneurs. The challenges in Inland Norway need to be focused, and to further develop and support what is good at today. I hope we're getting more attention towards Inland-Noreg from this house, and it says a representative from Coast-Noreg, where there's also a need, but the needs aren't as great as in Inland-Noreg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e599	It's hard to predict futures. I agree with Inge Ryan that the economics are swinging. A few years ago, researchers kept saying that we had to create 800,000 new jobs to replace what was going to be lost, and that the potential was in the marine sector. Now the business cycle shows that it may be a little difficult, but in the long run I think they're still right, that there's a potential here. The second growth potential was in what one might call knowledge-intensive and technology-based enterprises. The first growth area probably has small potential to participate in, but I think we should have great potential to exploit the potential of the knowledge-intensive, technology-based enterprises. We have a growing tourism industry, which should be stimulated in a much better way. We have a resource in the water force, if we know how to manage it in a defensive way in the future. But the provision for happiness with all of this is that we are able to create an active, competent development environment. There I agree with Odd Roger Enoksen, who points to the knowledge parks and business environments as an important tool. The Minister of Industry concluded that it is the general framework conditions that are also important for industrial development in the country. I agree, but here it's not about an either or, but about a boat and a boat. The tool that has a doctor in the SND can certainly be a proof of significance. When a large and important furniture factory was closed up in Wågå, 30 years ago, they applied for an exceptional contribution to the Municipal Food Fund. Then they got the answer from the Ministry of Local Affairs that no, it wasn't possible, because it was the general tools, and they had removed the flight fee. That's what was important for Wågå municipality. Oh yeah, they were going to have an airport up there, then, so that they could get such an answer at all. Knowledge parks and business areas are important motors for moving regions. Our problem is so clear that it's the regions of our counties that have the biggest challenges. I think we just have to see that we still need to invest in some regional centres and some motors, and that we need to accept slightly larger labour market regions. It was pointed out that we have a low level of education. That's a problem. In Uppland, the average is two-thirds of what is averaged elsewhere in the country. We only have 0.9 pst. of research and development. Here you need a lift. And others have pointed to the establishment of an inland university as an important step and action to get such a lift. I'm not supposed to say that much about the industry. I'm going to stare at the representative of Brørby who said about Raufoss. But travel is a growth industry that needs to be invested in a completely different way. There must be a completely different place in Norwegian industrial policy. In this way, I refer to a previous interpellation debate we've had on culture-based economic development. There is enormous potential here if we are to have targeted tools with fund allocations and regional development environment in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e616	I am pleased with the recordings that came, and the answer that the Council of State gave to this interpellation. What may be specific to the inland regions is the relationship between the city and the region. The cities of the Mjø region are in many ways the real engines compared to the whole of the large area that Uppland and Hedmark represent. It's in the cities that we find to a large extent the environments we need to create, for example. new technology-based industry, on which the representative Rudihagen was involved, which I fully agree with him. In the transition to new sectors of agriculture and forestry, much of the knowledge available in cities is needed. What we see in the practical work on business, which is largely done in the business parks and in private environments as well, is that it is the knowledge in the key areas that is actually needed to exploit and further develop the industry in the regional areas. Not least we see it, for example. within the journey life. This is why the regional approach to the instrument is crucial. It's the regional environments that know where the shoe prints, because it's on it, and it's the ones that have to be able to exercise the discretion to use the means that we make available effectively. So that means that we need to have greater flexibility both in terms of industry approaches and in relation to the geography that counts. The incubator activity, which is now close to the higher education environments in Mjøsbyne, is a very good example of this. In those environments, we find just the link between the knowledge that universities represent and the initiatives that private actors – often small actors – come up with. There we find the link between knowledge, industry and investment. The domestic problem is primarily linked to the fact that we have small, low-capital players, who need these networks to get their business going. The Raufoss community is facing a significant transformation and has a significant need for new owners. The Raufoss community is an example of such a private environment that has a high potential for entering international networks. Therefore, new owners, private owners – preferably internationally based owners – are crucial for us to make the transition that this society needs. The agricultural industry is the industry to enter the largest conversion. In particular, I would like to point out the legislation. If we don't get better conditions and more flexible legislation in relation to the organisation, financing, operating and trading of agricultural property, we're not going to do this transformation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e631	There is an important debate that is being raised here. As has been said before, other inland areas are also involved. Sense if you can point out that part of the problem here is that there is not such a high level of education, I think the challenge is that those young people who have received a high level of education have the opportunity to get work in their neighbourhood. If we don't, we're at risk of moving your knowledge being made use of. I therefore fully agree that we must bet on innovation and innovation, based on the knowledge our young people have gained. And knowledge developments take place quickly. I can illustrate that with what is now claimed in the health sector: 80 pst. Of what we want to do in the health care system in 2010, we have come up with after 2005. That's the way it is with all the knowledge. The challenge for us is that we have an instrument that can both set up resources and match the impatience of those who have acquired knowledge and who will start new businesses. Young people with education do not always just want to have consultants, e.g. from SND. Many, I think, might imagine developing business ideas based on the knowledge they and others have acquired. I still meet people who regret that the FUNN scheme was terminated. Electronic applications and three weeks of proceedings were ideal for impatient innovators. Obviously, we're going to take advantage of our advantages in the interior, but we've seen that, for example. broadband has provided new opportunities, typically in combination with traditional agricultural or other domestic industries. Young people will try. We must not become too conservative when the ideas appear. I think we might, for example. through the small-scale agricultural programme, ideas emerge that can initially be heard completely unrealistically in a business context, but that can well become a store. We have to cultivate all the good ideas, and then, as the representative Inge Ryan says, we have to believe that we will succeed. Whether tax relief, tax relief and tax relief are enough, at least we in the Workers' Party doubt it. It is important to give people the opportunity and not to make such demands that there will be large jobs, because in a context like this, all jobs count as much. As I said, innovation and high skills are a challenge, but it has to be combined with public will and belief in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e644	I would like to thank you for the debate and for the commitment that has been shown in a cross-political way. I am pleased that it has been clear across parties and across the representatives' geographical home belongings that this engages and is a topic that is important to us politically. The Council of State has now signalled that it will go through the instruments, and he has also said that he is planning measures that will not least benefit the country. That's a good signal. Inge Ryan said it was so great, somebody has to grab hold of it! I hope now that the Minister of Industry does. Governments and several other speakers have been involved in the level of knowledge in our domestic states. To that I would like to say that Hedmark and Uppland actually plan an inland university, and we lack some support from the central authorities to get this done. It is one of the measures that can raise the level of knowledge within the country. So I want to say a little bit about travel life. There is Hedmark a flagship in Trysil, but there are also many other exciting destinations. It is important to combine spending on travel with nature and experiences. Linking culture to industry is also a very important issue to be addressed. Several are involved in this, where film betting and the music industry are two areas. Fabulous activity is an example of a successful combination of cultural and economic activity, and is a new and exciting project. Milling crosses, which aim to be a service organisation that is helpful with, among other things. practice rooms, contacts, knowledge, booking and social events for musicians in the Mjøsregion, also do a great job. But it's no use for us in the interior to produce houses and planks and cut timber if we don't get our products transported out of the county in a proper way. In this regard, I can't get enough emphasis on the importance of good roads and good communications in our county. I end this interpellation debate that I started, saying that agriculture and forestry are the basis for us in Hedmark. And then, in a short sentence, I want to talk about the import protection of agriculture, which is also important to us. I now hope that the Council of State will take along the signals he has received from everyone who has taken part in the debate, and that we will get a real boost for some of the most beautiful things that exist in Norway, namely the interior.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e659	I would like to take the opportunity to say that I think this has been a very good debate in the sense that the absence of political adversities has been an opportunity to take on and feel, and that one has been able to make both views and perceptions of what is going on in order to bring about development, especially towards the interior. But as I said, I think nine out of ten elements that are part of the competitiveness of any state will be the same. The representative of the Fall pointed to and mentioned the keynote shift, and among other things. Raufoss was mentioned. I think one of the major challenges we're facing is to be able to deal with conversion with a relatively open mind. Basically, most conservatives, meaning that you should preferably do tomorrow what you did yesterday. This also applies to enterprises when they start having problems. I kept saying that the longer you have had problems, the more secure you are that you should continue immediately. A good example of taking this offensive is what happened at Kongsberg, and what got into the cold water of the situation there. I think you might have a lot to learn there. Another example from recent times, which at least has been in the Questionnaire in Stortinget, is what happened to the magnesium factory in Her Islanda. It was a rather massive and unison resistance to making changes. In retrospect, I think there are few who regret what happened. One of the major challenges we face is that we also need to recognise domestically that there is a need for some change. Then I think maybe one should call for tools as well as maintaining both import protection, customs protection and other such things, and acknowledge that we are living in a changeable time. In the revised national budget, I want to sign out some of the things that I mentioned and that the representative Fallet here brought up at the end. It could definitely be under the heading of capital access, and it could be getting new entrepreneurs. And I agree with what has been said that we can't just bet on projects where there are many jobs. As Mr Gaundal said, the small establishments could also have a potential. Today we have a grant scheme for entrepreneurs, but it is limited in geographical terms. It is a possible tool that could be made nationwide and that would also benefit the inland. Otherwise, I very much agree with the main message from Ryan, the representative, that knowledge and once again knowledge will be a key to economic development throughout the country. And then it's not just that I think about ICT technology and these things, but also that the natural resource-based industries need to implement skills to an even greater extent than they have now. We live in a high-cost country. We're going to stay a high-cost country, and that means we're going to have to make more use of what we had to have between our ears than what we had to have in our two arms.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e672	That is the examination of case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e683	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e737	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-20.ana.ud2344e748	There is no record.
