ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e39	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Odelsting meeting on Thursday 22 May – and will consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e44	I will propose Grethe Fossli and Sigvald Uppøen Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e49	Grethe Fossli and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Grethe Fossli and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen are unanimously elected presidents of the Odelsting meeting on Thursday 22 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e63	It is essentially a unanimous committee behind the attitude of Norway’s territorial waters and neighbouring zones. Norway is probably one of the last coastal states to extend the territorial border to 12 nautical miles, and the reason why we do it so late in comparison with many other countries is that it has taken some time to get the revision of the Norwegian baseline, but that work was technically completed in 2001 and 2002. When we follow a number of other coastal states in this country, it is within safe international law practice. The Committee agrees with the amendments to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions resulting from this legislation. In particular, the expiry of the specific tariff control limit of 10 nautical miles in favour of the establishment of an adjacent zone of 24 nautical miles, inter alia. for customs control purposes. One noted the government’s assessment of the impact of the amendment on the other parts of the Norwegian countryside. I am not going to go into any more detail here on geographical review – it has been quite entertaining to see who is familiar with the location of both Bouvet Island and Peter I Island – but this is particularly the case here with the extension of the territorial sea of Svalbard, resulting in a similar extension of the geographical scope of the Svalbard Treaty. The Committee supports the extension of the territorial sea to 12 nautical miles for Jan Mayen and Svalbard at the same time as the amendments for mainland Norway, the postponement of the entry into force of the legislative amendment to the other coun tries, and the restriction of the establishment of an adjacent zone to mainland Norway. Only on one point is there not unanimity in the Committee. However, there is a majority, all except for the members of the Progress Party, who are aware that there are today five large protection areas on Svalbard which have the territorial boundary as their outer border. It appears from the Hearing Body that in the absence of an extension of the protection areas concerned, the sea areas between 4 and the new 12 nautical miles could be opened for activities incompatible with the protection objectives in question. Consequently, in the view of the majority of the majority, an extension of the protection areas currently demarcated to 4 nautical miles was necessary in the event of an extension of the territorial sea. Finally, I would like to say that the matter is very important, for safety along the coast, not least. One is aware of recent shipping disasters along the Norwegian coast, with significant human and environmental consequences. I was rapporteur in Haugesund for six years before I came to Stortinget, and only then did we have within my own area both the 'Sleipner' accident and since also the event of 'Green Ålesund' as stranded in the rocks, with significant pollution as a result. It is clear that for coastal safety, but also for the prevention of environmental pollution, a number of measures are relevant and many are on the move. Now we have a significant improvement work along the coast in view of this. The extension of the territorial sea is an essential prerequisite for enhancing safety at sea. Norwegian public law, including criminal law, private law and environmental law, can now be implemented in a larger geographical area than at present and one can establish required shipowners and traffic separation systems in an enlarged area. If one sees this in the context of the establishment of the so-called AIS — satellite automatic identification system — which is aimed at being put in place from the end of the current year, this will significantly improve risk prevention measures along the coast. One also knows that the departments are working to establish pre-prepared port facilities along the coast, where one can take in sources of pollution before being contaminated by the sea. In this context, the extension of the territorial limit is one of the main instruments and a prerequisite for the implementation of other measures, and the Committee is very pleased that this will take place. I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e80	SV supports the proposal to extend the territorial zone from 4 to 12 nautical miles – or, said with terms that we have easier to relate to, from 7.4 km to 22.2 km. The background for this is, of course, the increased threats we experience in connection with, among other things. the carriage of oil from Russia. Today we have 200 such shipments a year, but it can increase strongly in the years to come. Some say that in 5–15 years, as much as 320,000 tonnes of oil could be transported along the Norwegian coast every week. We can get oil tankers operating just two miles off the coast, and there's no safe distance. That is why the adjoining zone is also important. It is also important to take action as quickly as possible as possible as a navigational manager, including, where appropriate, unloading where necessary. The biggest challenge we face in the short term is the towing boat capacity. Right today we have no boats that are strong enough to drag away a large oil tank if it would be operational outside the Norwegian coast. The coastline from Vardø to City is very long, and the response time is crucial to avoid such disasters. In the context of the review of the Marine Environment Communication, an overall Energy and Environment Committee identified the need to strengthen the tug capacity of North Norway and the Stortinget has taken a decision that, in the context of the revised national budget, the Government must promote concrete measures to strengthen this capacity. It is good that we now have an increased opportunity to initiate actions to 22.2 km. However, there is also an international mechanism to protect vulnerable sea and coastal areas from the threat posed by shipping. Through the IMO, Norway may apply to make vulnerable sea areas PSSA - Particularly Sensitive Sea Areas, i.e. sensitive sea areas. If a PSSA status area is established, regulations may also be implemented outside 12 or 24 nautical miles. And you can differentiate by how dangerous the cargoes are. The PSSA status is also a recognition of the value and vulnerability of an area and will legitimise the use of the navigational manager, ship design requirements, duty of unloading, alerting, etc. The criteria for becoming a PSSA area are: ecological conditions, which are rare, unique, diverse, pristine, etc.social, cultural and economic conditions, such as economic importance of the areas, recreational opportunities, tourism, etc.scientific and pedagogical conditions, that the area has historical value or can be used as a reference area; The Barents Sea areas fulfil all the criteria, and the work on the sectoral impact studies in the context of the Barents Sea overall management plan will provide us with additional documentation that can be used. The Barents Sea is one of the world's richest food barrels in the form of fishing resources, and has a density and diversity of seabirds that hardly exist anywhere else. In addition, there's a bottom fauna that's been guarding international surveillance since last year a deep-water coral reef was found outside Røst. There are not many PSSA areas in the world today. Great Barrier Reef outside Australia was the first. The Transport Committee visited Australia in winter and saw the impressive management of this PSSA area. A similar administration would have been possible for the Barents Sea. Other PSSA areas are Sabana outside Cuba and two areas dealt with at the latest IMO, Florida Keys in the United States and Malpelo Island outside Colombia. SV is therefore very pleased that the Government has taken the initiative to apply to the IMO to make parts of the Norwegian Sea, the Barents Sea and the protection zones around Svalbard a PSSA area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e114	Ensuring a sustainable development of the air, the earth and the sea is an important task. The generations after us, too, must enjoy and have the chance to enjoy a clean air and a clean sea. The Norwegian seas are today among the world's richest and purest, but pollution is increasing. We have a great responsibility to take care of our coastal and marine areas with the amazing animal and bird populations that live there today. It is Norway’s responsibility to manage these resources in a resilient way, but it can only be done in cooperation with other countries and actors. Environmental challenges have no limits. The Christian People's Party is very busy protecting the environment along the coast. It is alarming that large quantities of oil and radioactive cargo are transported near our Norwegian coast and that there is an increase in the transport of environmentally hazardous cargo along the coast. Only last year passed over 200 Russian oil tankers and boats with dangerous and impure cargo along the Norwegian coast. A new oil pipeline from Siberian to Murmansk could increase oil traffic further. The alarm of accidents with these ships is causing fear of pollution of the sea and the coast. The risk of accidents is very small in statistical terms, but the risk of accidents and accidents is always present. We have to include in the risk assessment the fact that the Norwegian coast north of winter is one of the most weather-hard areas in the world. The accidents with «John R.» and «Green Ålesund» and the catastrophic accident on the Spanish coast recently show the importance of good preparedness in the event of an accident. The government has proposed various measures to meet this threat. Extension of territorial waters from 4 to 12 nautical miles is one of these measures. The expansion of the territorial waters is a measure Christian People's Party of mine is very important, and I am very pleased that there is a great deal about the extension of the Storting. I want to pay tribute to the Government for a resilient and forward-looking action. It is a preventive measure that helps to safeguard our coast and the maritime environment, and helps to preserve our clean coast and our rich sea. Within the territorial waters, Norway has sovereignty and dangerous shipping can be forced to sail further off the coast. An extension provides better control of foreign ships. This change will allow Norwegian authorities to point out sailing leases at a greater distance from the coast of ships with high damage potential. Norway may establish required shipowners and traffic separation systems. When it comes to the coast of Svalbard, the Christian People's Party will stress that there is a large majority in the Foreign Affairs Committee who in this case ask that the extension of the Svalbard protection area in question be taken at the same time as the extension of the territorial sea in order to avoid opening sea areas between 4 and 12 nautical miles to activities that do not comply with the protection objectives in question. It's a very central point that several hearing agencies have pointed to. There is a strong need to regulate nuclear and oil transport, including: the obligation to decide who is responsible in the event of accidents involving such ships. In the context of measures to strengthen the protection of the coastal environment, the Christian People's Party wishes to refer to the Innst. S. No 80 for 2001–02, where a joint Foreign Affairs Committee asks Norway to be a driving force in the international effort to make countries legally and economically accountable as a result of cross-border pollution. A joint committee asked Norway to assess whether it could be useful to present a binding convention for the environment in general. The aim must be that the principle of the payment of fees, also applicable to states, not only to individuals and companies. International developments are more pronounced in Norway today than before. Not only the threat to the environment must be met by both national and international measures, but also by the fight against poverty, crime and drugs. The Christian People's Party therefore sees it as positive that an extension of the territorial sea and the establishment of an adjacent zone will increase the possibility of preventing international drug and human trafficking by sea. This is how our national action helps to meet international challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e135	There is an overall committee that is behind the setting in a large and important case for the whole nation, for the Norwegian coast, and for monitoring and preparedness. Let me just say that Heidi Sørensen is of course quite right when she emphasizes how vulnerable any imaginable environment in and around the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea is with the evolution we see in shipping, which brings with it increased risk and threat, but at the same time I think it is important to stress that you do not encounter this development completely unprepared, as it might give an impression that you are doing. At the same time, Norway has to deal with developments as it comes. It has to be dealt with through the international bodies that manage these issues, on which Norway is so heavily dependent, cf. IMO, in all the other sea areas where Norway is a major force out there. At the same time, I would like to stress that there is no doubt that the formidable increase in maritime transport through the Norwegian Ocean, inside and outside the Norwegian Sea and in the Barents Sea poses an increased risk and threat we will face in the time to come. Then it is also important that we harmonise our policies with the EU's, for example, the definition of simple or double hulls. We are now looking through the development on Snow White that the tug-boat gear will be installed in a satisfactory way, two tug-boats will be in place if not too long in this area. At the same time, it is worth stressing that now there is a monitoring centre in agreement with Russia and what they can and will accept, i.e. in cooperation with Russia, but of course stationed on the Norwegian side. I think what's also important when we're discussing this question, and with the threats that lie here, is that we're not just prepared, as all the speakers have so far been, but that we also define authority and responsibility, for so far there's been a lot of trouble in defining the responsibility of the ship's shell. Here we have a long way to go, but I feel that this matter is included and press upon it to define responsibility by accident. But with our presence through the development around Snow White, it must also be a task for the Norwegian Magnificent to contribute to setting an environmental standard, a technological standard, also in cooperation with Russia, with which I feel we have a very good dialogue in many other areas. Then we can join in and put in place bilateral solutions that also take into account the ship's managers who are going to channel the increased traffic. I also feel that we are in the process of avoiding this danger, and then we just have to hope that as we increase our strength, increased preparedness, we will be able to reduce the future threat to as low a minimum as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e142	There should only be a few comments. I want to acknowledge the fact that Odelstingen now accepts and adopts a matter of the greatest importance to the country. It is true that, as the rapporteur says, we are one of the last coastal states to do this, but the more important it is that we now get this in place, and I must therefore say that I am very pleased with this treatment. This is an important instrument for protecting the environment, but like the representative Lilletun, I would like to stress that the objective is, of course, far more than protecting the environment; there are other objectives that are well served by this extension. As far as environmental protection is concerned, much of the debate has gone on, many things are beyond this issue to which it is now invited. So I'm going to leave those elements, even though I agree without a doubt with the importance of these other elements. Only one point, not to create misunderstandings: the neighbouring zones, mentioned in the debate, are, unfortunately, not of those that will be an instrument in the environmental context. They have different purposes, but it only underlines the importance of focusing on other instruments than this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e149	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 516]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e165	In this setting of the law on changes to the tax law, there are four points that are affected. In particular, I would like to say a few words about new rules on the taxation of securities loans and new rules on the tax residence when moving in and out. There is much agreement in the Committee on the Government's proposal in this matter, but there are some changes that will certainly come back to other representatives. Proposals are made for rules on the taxation of short selling of securities to which the taxpayer has obtained access in the case of loans. The proposals have a background to the changes made in 1996 to securities trading legislation. The aim was to improve the efficiency of the securities market. Securities lending and short selling are financial transactions that are relatively new in Norway. Like other new financial products, the treatment of these financial transactions presents challenges to the equality authorities. It is now envisaged that this type of transaction will increase in the Norwegian market. At the same time, the proposal clarifies the legal situation in areas where there has been considerable uncertainty up to now. The act adopted by the majority today shall ensure that individual actors do not expose themselves to greater risks than they have the capacity to bear and limit the possibility that liquidity or soundness problems of individual actors may continue to propagate to other parts of our financial system. One is aware that a threat to financial stability is also a risk of a large fall in the price of securities markets, and one assumes that because short sales are profitable at falling prices, such sales may counteract the general market risk to which many financial market players are exposed and that when short sales are required to be covered, either through securities lending or by other means, this is to limit the risk of spreading financial problems through securities settlement. The proposal proposes that compensation for dividends distributed on borrowed shares during the loan period be considered as a tax dividend on the shares borrowed for the final beneficiary of the dividend compensation. This shall be taken into account in relation to the tax agreements concluded by Norway with other countries and the tax agreements concluded by Norway are based on the OECD model agreement to avoid double taxation. In the setting, we assume that if the person paying the dividends does not know the identity of the real owner, source taxes should always be deducted at the rate resulting from the Annual Tax Decision of the Stortinge and that if it has been drawn 25 pst. withholding tax on a dividend because the payer did not know the identity of the beneficial owner, the beneficial owner is entitled to reimbursement of the withholding tax deducted in Norway corresponding to the difference between 25 pst. and the rate resulting from the tax agreement with his country of residence. The Tax Act does not explicitly regulate when tax residence in Norway ceases to exist in the context of emigration. This may have been the point that the Committee has been most concerned with in this matter. Here the Government proposes new rules on tax residence both when moving in and when moving out. After the proposal, relocation and relocation shall be regulated separately, as the two situations are so different that they are not suitable for regulation through common rules. Under these rules, a tax residence in Norway is established solely on the basis of the length of the stay in Norway. The Government proposes, and the majority agrees, that a person should be considered a resident if he is resident in Norway for more than 183 days during any twelve-month period. Furthermore, it is proposed that a person who is resident in Norway for one or more periods of a total of more than 270 days during any thirty-six months should be considered as a tax resident here. It is proposed that a tax residence be terminated for a person who takes permanent residence abroad and proves that he/she does not own, rent or otherwise have a dwelling in Norway or reside there for more than 61 days in the year of income he/she takes permanent residence abroad. Own rules will be arranged here, probably in regulations, for what is considered to be housing, what is meant to be in possession of housing, and who is considered to be related in such a context. Special rules are proposed for a person who has been a tax resident in Norway for at least 10 years before taking permanent residence abroad. In the case of such persons, the tax residence relationship shall cease only after the third year of income after the year in which he took up residence abroad. That provision lays down stricter tax emigration requirements for seafarers than for other persons. After this provision, the tax residence in Norway will cease for a Norwegian seafarer working on Norwegian or foreign ships if he takes permanent residence abroad and proves that he is liable for the entire rental income in the country of residence. The Government proposes to repeal this provision. The Committee agrees. In the context of the treatment of the Folkeregisters Act here in Stortinget, Stortinget concluded that the concepts of residence of the tax law and the Folkeregisters Act were to be as consistent as possible. The government has addressed this issue and, following a detailed assessment, it has concluded that such coordination of the rules of residence in the two legislations is not appropriate and suggests that the objective of coordination is not maintained. The Committee takes these assessments into account. Per. On 1 January 2003, Norway has fiscal agreements in force with 78 countries. Most of Norway’s tax agreements are based on the OECD model agreement. Furthermore, under the agreement, residence is important for the purpose of resolving double taxation as a result of double residence under the internal law of the contracting countries, or double taxation as a result of taxation in both the country of residence and the country of origin. The tax agreements establish a separate residence concept whereby only one of the countries may be resident in the context of a tax contract. For a person who has resided in the State for at least 10 years before the year of income he takes permanent residence abroad, residence in the State ceases after the end of the first third year of income after the year of income he takes such permanent residence abroad. The proposal provides for a significant relaxation in relation to the applicable law as regards the connection points to be considered and by reducing the number of connecting points to only housing in Norway and residence in Norway, both the moments and their assessment will be much less discretionary than under current law. The rule on the cessation of tax residence for persons who have lived in Norway for more than 10 years does not differ in particular from that in other European countries. More countries in Europe have stricter rules than those we adopt today; they have stricter requirements for the cessation of tax residence for persons with strong links with the country of departure than for other persons without such links. The majority of the Committee cannot see that the specific three-year rule on the cessation of tax residence has a negative impact on Norwegian enterprises’ ability to attract highly skilled foreign workers, as such workers would be subject to the proposed rule only if they were in Norway for more than 10 years. Questions may be raised as to whether the proposal for new tax residence rules is to be understood in such a way that persons who have temporarily resided abroad for more than four years are to be regarded as taxable persons to Norway again from 1 January 2004. The proposal can be understood as re-establishing the tax liability of this group of residents. Such an understanding could lead to unreasonable results in relation to the application of the proposed rules on the cessation of tax residence. In order to counteract such a result, the majority proposes that such persons be considered as tax residents abroad from the 2004 income year onwards. To this end, the Committee proposes to adopt a transitional provision to the proposed rules of residence by adopting a new section.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e216	The president just wants to say that being away, in the best sense of the word, after this might not be that easy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e219	I hope we're all here today, at least. The rapporteur, Tore Nordtun, has explained the setting in depth and well, a setting where the Workers' Party and the government parties have similar views all the way. I would therefore just like to make a few brief comments on two of the proposals. The majority support the Government's proposal for new rules on the taxation of loans and covered short selling of securities. The main consequence of the proposal is that Norwegian investors are not faced with a worse situation than foreign competitors, and that Norwegian investors and Norwegian intermediaries will be able to have a greater share of the already existing loan market for shares and other securities. It doesn't like the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Norwegian investors shall have terms and conditions other than foreign competitors, and Norwegian investors shall not, like their foreign competitors, be able to borrow or deposit securities. Fortunately, the Socialist Left lost that fight already in 1996, when loans of securities were allowed. Then it seems a little late in 2003 to make a comment about having a discussion about ‘what kind of securities market society is likely to have’. That discussion was taken seven years ago. What you're doing now is making sure that the intentions of the law change from then on are fulfilled. There is also broad consensus in the Committee on the new rules on tax residence when moving to Norway and moving from Norway. Only the Progress Party opposes the proposed removal rules from Norway after having lived in Norway for 10 years because they believe that the rules are too strict. I do not agree with that. The additional requirement of having lived here for more than 10 years is a requirement to prove in connection with the declaration in the first three years after moving out that the conditions for removal are met. It is also not necessarily a tightening of current rules, but it involves better predictability, non-discrimination and simplification, and not least a number of less discretion than it is now. In many cases, relocation could actually be identified more quickly with the new rules than with the old ones, which provided a judgement with many criteria for assessment and association. The self-declaration requirement is not an unreasonable requirement for evidence when one has had such a long relationship with Norway as at least 10 years. It is also no stricter than that of other countries. Maybe it's a good idea to take that as a starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e232	In the case of the first part of the proposition, the Ministry here presents new tax rules for securities lending, so-called covered short-sal. The proposal is that such loans should not be taxed as a realization of any gain for owners. The reason for this is that such realisable taxation reduces interest in borrowing securities, and therefore we believe that the proposal that lending of securities should no longer be taxed on realisable assets as revenue from abroad is a sensible legislative amendment, which we fully support. It is also suggested that, in some cases, withholding taxes should be withheld where the lender is not registered as a tenant in Norway. It is a depositor who, in those cases, is responsible for the payment of such a tax. This proposal seems unnecessarily complicated and difficult to enforce. because in some cases the parties to the contract may not know the identity of the counterparty. The progress party therefore opposes this change and believes that the individual party must be responsible for the payment of its own tax. In the case of the second part of the proposition, the Party of Progress has no comments on the proposal for new rules for moving into Norway. On the other hand, when there is a debt of emigration from Norway, the Progress Party is of the opinion – which insofar as both the case-speaker and the previous speaker were concerned – that the rules are too strict for people who have bid more than ten years in Norway. In view of this, we propose that the rules proposed for people who have not bid for 10 years in Norway should also be applied to people who have bid for more than 10 years in Norway. We found it unthinkable that tax housing only ceases after the third year of income after the year of income which the resident took up residence abroad. Following this proposal, the person shall, in the context of the self-declaration, prove for each of the three years of income after the transfer that the person concerned, or his related person, does not own, rent or otherwise dispose of the dwelling of the Kingdom, or stays in the Kingdom beyond 61 days in the year of income. Providing self-declaration for three years will result in additional work for the person to whom it is subject. This will result in extra work for the equality offices. There is also an inconsequential control problem in connection with the disposal of housing in Norway, and the number of days in the year of income may also be problematic. I ask myself, what if the person who moves to a country, Botswana or another country far away does not meet this requirement? What, then, should the tax rate do? Should a person go down and ask why he has not delivered the self-message, or should he look through his fingers with it? It would be a good idea to get an answer to this, either from the majority or from the Minister of Finance. In addition to this, the requirement for a maximum of 61 days in the kingdom is far too strict and stricter than the current tax exemption rules in case of a temporary suspension of at least one year in the rest of the world. In the case of temporary withdrawals, the rule is that tax payers can, on average, stay in Norway for six days for each month of the retention period. So it's going to be 72 days per day. years and not 61 days. In order to avoid the confusion that could be created by the fact that one operates with too many different deadlines, the Progress Party suggests that a maximum of 72 days are also taken into account in the change in the law that we are dealing with today. The Party of Progress also has little understanding of the proposal that the four-year rule should be removed. This rule ensures that long-term stays abroad have been able to move on to permanent tax emigration. This is therefore a rule that should be retained, and the Progress Party will therefore vote against the removal of this rule. We will also stress that the improvement proposed for seafarers is positive and, of course, a change that we will then support. We also note that tax housing rules vary somewhat from country to country. Therefore, it should be advisable to bring about an even greater harmonisation of these rules, and we hope that initiatives can be taken in the long term, so that we can get as much equal rules in the countries it is natural to compare with. Finally, I will re-submit the proposals of the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e258	The representative, Mr. Hagesetter, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e261	The case spokesperson has done a lot of good for the various elements in the matter, so I'm going to carefully comment on the point where SV disagrees with the multiples in, that's the point about securities loans and shortsal. The proposal, which has been discussed by many, has been in line with the 1996 changes in legislation on securities trading. It is with the background in the treatment that SV also this time goes against, and I want to use a little of the argument that applied that time, but that also applies today. SV and the Central Party stand alone in the setting today, against these points. We were standing alone that time. We stand alone in our fundamental resistance to proposals that will liberalise market sales of securities. The changes made in 1996 were radical. Now one goes even further in terms of stimulating to the shortsal. Now, as in 1996, analyses and assessments of the social consequences of an increase in the volume of the securities lending market and an increase in the volume of short-trade will be lacking. It is not right, as the representative Heidi Larssen says, that one was done with that analysis and the assessments in 1996, because one did not go into it at the time, just as little as one goes into it now. It was only SV and the Center Party that did. LO just pointed this out in his hearing statement for this treatment, without anyone having found to see what LO has come with. The market is made in many ways in its ideal version, while the historical recognition of the embedded instability of the market system is not present – although we have noticed both in Norway and in some other countries that financial crises have a spillover effect on the economy. Now we're not going to compare ourselves to Argentina, but the Asia crisis also affected the krone price and the interest rate in Norway, which is after 1996. As experience that some countries have gained since 1996, there should be an analysis and an assessment of this issue. The only consequences that have been discussed are the effects that the proposed changes will have on the securities market itself. What kind of securities market society is going to have is not being discussed. The socio-economic thinking is distorted by the overarching objective of an efficient, functioning securities market. However, we are certain that a change in the law could facilitate the market situation in line with the proposal. Facilitate availability by using loans as cover would also be a way to reduce risk. That's good in itself. However, it is not always possible that reducing the risk for an individual actor will reduce the risk for the market as a whole or for society. So with the background of what I've just said, SV will still be voting against the points that I've done right for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e278	Heidi Larssen should not be surprised that the Senterpartiet and SV mean the same thing today as we did in 1996. That we lost a vote at the time, is not reasonable enough to change our mind. I have to the extent that the Right did not do so in relation to another important case where they lost a vote in 1994, but where they do not fail to re-open the issue of Norway's relationship with the EU when the opportunity arises, in order to mention one in parallel. The tax residence rules have been unclear. Some people with good advice have been able to use the rules to live in Norway but pay taxes to countries with lower rates. The rules now adopted shall make it easier for both taxpayers and the equality authorities to interpret and enforce the rules. The Central Party proposed in 1999 that the legislation be clarified and improved so that persons who actually live in Norway for much of the year and benefit from all the benefits that the home country can offer with its relatively high taxes also pay taxes to Norway. At the time, the Committee agreed that the rules should be tightened up, in line with the intentions of the proposal. I think it is positive that all the tax residence rules are now being incorporated into the tax law. Time will show whether the legislation will work so that the large tax havens we've had are removed without new ones being opened. The tax havens will continue to exist, but those who earn the most will have to stop paying taxes to Norway because of large gaps in the tax regime. The latest figures from the Tax Directorate show that there is a significant interest in moving abroad due to fiscal conditions. According to the Online Newspaper on 5 May, over the last years, the Tax Directorate has received 300-400 complaints regarding the request for removal, and 80 pst. of which they are rejected. The Ministry writes in its proposal that the new rules will lead to some being more than currently liable for tax to Norway both on entry and on emigration. At the same time, the rules make it easier to practice. The Norwegian rules will now comply with similar rules in most of our neighbouring countries. I think there is a good balance between the requirements of tax immigration and relocation, and between the rules in Norway and in the nearest neighbouring countries. In the longer term, we need to be able to have a little more ambition: to abolish the tax havens that still exist. Kåre Willoch wrote in a chronicle in the newspaper on October 13th. 1999: ‘In order to avoid the grossly unfair privileges of the most reckless of the world’s richest today, which are full of the nobles’ privileges before the French revolution, international cooperation on the abolition of tax havens must be developed.’ As regards the reason why the centre party is opposed to the proposal for new rules on the taxation of securities loans, I refer to the statement made by Heidi Grande Røys.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e303	I am very grateful for the quotation by Mr Willoch from the representative of Mr Enoksen. This is a work that is being carried out internationally, most effectively under the direction of the EU. This work supports Norway. The EU works actively for, among others: to avoid some extreme elements of the desire to attract business from other EU countries through tax rules. To date, it has produced significant effects. We cannot hide the fact that the biggest problem in this context is the EFTA country and Switzerland abroad, which have very opposedly agreed to some rules to ease the discretionary provisions on bank deposits in Switzerland – to say the least – but I believe in a correct language. There have been some relaxations, and the trends in tax havens within some EU countries, Denmark, the United Kingdom, Luxembourg and others, have been considerably tightened by joint decisions. It's a work that's very important. Since we are first in the EU, we must be able to say that it is good and good to stand firm on the position from 1994 and possibly earlier, but one must say that there has been a slightly different trend in the two positions. It seems that the desire for EU membership in Europe has gradually gained increasing support, to say the least cautiously, while the desire to have specific national provisions for the securities market internationally and in Europe does not appear to be a trend, rather the opposite. But there is one thing that remains in the perspective of the SV and the Central Party, and it is a wish that Norway should have different and stricter rules for the securities market than the rest of Europe and the rest of the world. As a consequence, access to capital in Norway is becoming more difficult for Norwegian enterprises. There is something the majority will not agree to, and I am very pleased about that. The transitional provisions of the rules on tax returns and transfers proposed by the Committee shall be in agreement with the Ministry. We have also proposed it in a letter to the Committee asking for this. I think it is a very good arrangement that has been found here. I am also grateful that there is a broad majority that adheres to all the rules proposed for tax entry and exit. The rapporteur has explained in detail. There can be an impression that the rules are complicated, and they are in and out. Now you could say that these are rules that don't exactly have a daily relation to the population, and we're going to be happy about that. But the advantage of the complicated rules is that they should be clearer and show less discretion. It could be about a lot of money. Some matters that have been treated with discretion under the old rules have been significantly mediated, so this is not only a matter of large amounts for the state, but it is also a matter of justice in the treatment of citizens under the tax laws. That's also an important aspect of it. But in other words, there will be less discretion and clearer rules with this arrangement. Let me just comment on a couple of questions. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party indicate that the requirement of a maximum of 61 days in the Kingdom is stricter than the current rules on tax exemptions for temporary stays of at least one year abroad. Here are the rules that taxpayers can stay on average in Norway for six days for each full month of residence, 72 days per month. year, without the end of the tax exemption. In order to avoid the confusion that could be created by the fact that there are too many different deadlines, these members propose that the maximum stay here also be set at 72 days. However, the annual rule has a completely different purpose from the rules on the cessation of tax residence. The annual rule is intended to help facilitate the activities of Norwegian business abroad. Unlike for emigration, the so-called one-year rule implies that the tax residence of a person in Norway exists even if tax exemptions are granted for the income of employees. Foreign residence is temporary, as opposed to the permanent foreign residence entailed by an emigration. Therefore, those using this rule will often have their immediate family in Norway during their stay abroad. It is reasonable that the persons covered by the one-year rule, who, after all, are tax residents of Norway, are allowed a slightly longer stay in Norway than those to be emigrated and who are alleged to have interrupted their relationship with Norway. In the case of another dissertation from the Advancement Party, I would like to stress that there is a strong need to carry out a certain check that people really break their relationship with Norway in the period after the claim for emigration has been made. Compared with current rules and with other European countries, a subsequent check is relatively short for three years after the relocation. If the period is even shorter, as proposed by the members of the Progress Party of the Committee, this could lead to a significant erosion of the Norwegian tax base.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e316	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 517]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e324	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e500	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e510	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e517	During the debate, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward proposals Nos. 1 and 2, which are included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e555	The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e735	Section 2-1, new third paragraph, No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The point (b) of the third paragraph of Section 2-1 of the Tax Act shall be replaced by the following: in the case of persons who take permanent residence abroad, the residence in the Kingdom shall cease for the year of income it is demonstrated that the person has not resided in the Kingdom for one or more periods exceeding 72 days in the year of income and that the person or his/her relatives have not occupied the State. In any case, the place of residence shall not cease until the time when the person or his/her related person no longer disposes of a dwelling in the Kingdom.’» The President would point out that this proposal concerns point (a), not point (b), as it stands in the vote. In addition, the propulsion party has notified that it is heading towards point (b). In the first place, an alternative is to vote between the Committee's position on point (a) of the third paragraph and that of the Progress Party. The position of the Committee shall then be reviewed to take account of point (b) of the third subparagraph. Finally, the other paragraphs and letters of the paragraph are added.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e775	The progress party has announced that they are moving towards the lifting of the fourth paragraph. The fourth paragraph shall be deleted first, then the fifth and eighth subparagraphs (f) deleted and the subsequent paragraph (f) deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e809	The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e833	The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e853	The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against the first and second sentences, while the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre will vote against the third sentence. It goes first over the first and second sentences, then over the third sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e919	The Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e971	To the second subparagraph, point (b) 3 an aberrant proposal, No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Tax Act new § 9-12, second paragraph, point (b) 3 shall be replaced by the following:3. compensation for the return on securities lent over the period of the loan.’;» The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against the whole paragraph. This is the first time that we are voting on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e992	President! I voted wrong. I voted in favour, but I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e999	The President then records that there must be 57 votes against the bill and 16 against. The proposal by the Group of the European People's Party has thus been rejected. It is then voted on the Committee's position on the whole paragraph. The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e1059	The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e1090	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e1126	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they are moving towards the first paragraph, while the Progress Party has announced that they are moving against the transitional provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e1150	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-08-lower.ana.ud494e1160	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
