ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-21.ana.ud1301e33	The war in Iraq is now within its second day. The TV images bring glimpses of the military activities and combat actions into all Norwegian homes. Norway is not part of this war, but it affects us all. War is always evil. This time, too, our greatest concerns concern the civilian population. It has suffered for a long time under Saddam Hussein's despotic regime – with wars and oppression. Now the steady Iraqi lives in nagging uncertainty as to what this war can lead to. Norway's position is clear. We cannot support this war. Norway has consistently maintained that military actions need to be firmly anchored in international law through a new decision of the Security Council. Such a decision is not taken. The Norwegian Government, with broad support from the Stortinget, has consistently supported the UN's strategy for the disarmament of Iraq. Norway was present when the Security Council adopted Resolution 1441 unanimously on 8 November last year. It showed a way that we gave our full support, a way we've called the United Nations track. We had hoped Saddam Hussein would comply with the many binding demands the UN has made on him so that we could find a peaceful solution to this conflict. The Iraqi regime gradually cooperated more, but only halfheartedly and counterproductively. Iraq has not complied with the requirements of Resolution 1441. Gradually, diplomacy, weapons inspections and increasing military pressure produced greater results. That is why we wanted to give UN weapons inspectors more time, while Iraq was called upon to take concrete disarmament steps within tight but feasible deadlines. It is deeply regrettable that the Security Council was unable to agree on the way forward. We appealed at long last to the Security Council to unite on a unified strategy – in accordance with Resolution 1441. It would have given the greatest opportunity for peace. It didn't work that way. We have wanted to resolve the Iraq conflict peacefully. Now it's being settled by military means. Winning the war is one thing. Something completely different is to win the peace afterwards. At this moment, there is considerable uncertainty — both about the course of the war and about the international and longer-term consequences. We are in a situation that is demanding for all of us. We are very concerned about what progress can bring. In this situation, I would like to highlight three important issues: Firstly, we hope that the military operations can be completed as soon as possible. Secondly, it is important that the civilian population be spared as much as possible and that their suffering be alleviated by effective humanitarian contributions. Thirdly, in a longer-term perspective, Iraq – and the Middle East region for the rest – must be secured a stable future with peace, freedom and democracy. Norway shall actively contribute to the relief of distress through humanitarian assistance! Norway is also ready to contribute to the construction of Iraqi society after the end of the war. But we want more than this. We will see our work for peace and security in a wider perspective. The Government will therefore aim to: the stabilisation of the whole Middle East region and the emergence of progress in the locked-up conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians towards the promotion of the cohesion of the global alliance against terrorism, and the elimination of the division of international cooperation forums – and the strengthening of the UN as a peace organisation We must not abandon our objectives: Middle East peace against international terrorism strengthening international law and the United Nations as a peace organisation These are the goals we must now have been looking at. In both the UN, NATO and the EU, we have experienced tensions and disagreements in this matter. The contradictions were strong. Rather than cementing the division, we now need to build bridges. Norway will help us to normalize cooperation in the bodies in which we are involved as soon as possible. The vision must therefore now be directed forward. In this perspective, I will also see the current conflict situation in Iraq and the challenges it faces us. Many have a vague picture of Iraq. It's worth remembering that in this area was one of our civilization cradles. Mesopotamia gave the world the first alphabet 2,500 years before Christ and the oldest law 1,750 years before Christ. The term ‘eye for eye, tooth for tooth’ is taken from paragraphs 196 and 200 of Hammurabi’s legislation, respectively. Iraq is also the country of origin of Gilgamesh, one of the world's oldest preserved literary works from about. 2,000 years before Christ. Babel's tower and the hanging gardens were built in Iraq. This cultural land, rich in oil, has been destroyed by the despot Saddam Hussein. It's a tragedy. He has started wars against two neighbouring countries, with enormous losses of human lives and the impoverishment of the country as a result. He's been using chemical weapons against the Kurdish minority. Only in the city of Alkalya died between 3,500 and 5,000 people 15 years ago. Between 50 000 and 100 000 Iraqi Kurds died as a result of systematic abductions, executions and gas attacks from February to September 1988. Only three years after he attacked the Shia Muslims in the south, who had rebelled in the wake of the Gulf war. Probably nearly 30,000 people were killed by the regime during this campaign. The areas of the wetland sarabi were dried by means of new drainage systems. A thousand-year-old culture was wiped out. So that Saddam Hussein today sees the “writing on the wall” – an expression that otherwise comes from a Bible story that takes place just in Babylon – we should really enjoy it. What we're sorry about is the way it happens. Following the 1991 Gulf War, the UN Security Council adopted a number of resolutions on Iraq. Weapon inspectors from the United Nations and the International Atomic Energy Agency have made a great effort to check whether Iraq has illegal weapons of mass destruction and to ensure that they are proven to be destroyed. The regime of Saddam Hussein did not fulfil its obligations to cooperate actively with the inspectors. Nevertheless, prohibited weapons were found. In the period up to 1998, much of Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction were destroyed. The inspections led to the destruction of much more of these weapons than what was destroyed through the Gulf War. Weapon inspections had to be interrupted in 1998 because of Iraq’s behaviour. They did not recommence until the Security Council adopted Resolution 1441 on 8 November 2002. There has been broad agreement that Iraq has not fulfilled its obligations under this resolution. They have gradually cooperated better on the process, but far from well enough on the content of providing satisfactory evidence that the prohibited weapons are really destroyed. However, controlled destruction of Al-Samoud rockets has taken place. That was positive. Therefore, the disagreement in the Security Council has not been about whether Iraq has failed to fulfil its obligations – there is agreement – but whether progress in the control and disarmament process has made it right to give more time to continue to work for the disarmament of Iraq in a peaceful manner. Despite Iraq's failure to comply with Resolution 1441, the Norwegian government concluded that the weapons inspections should have continued because progress had been made. A concrete work programme should have been drawn up with achievable deadlines. If Iraq had shown full cooperation, this could give hope for a peaceful solution. We wanted one to go further on the road to peace and tested it. From the Norwegian side, we would very much regret that the Security Council did not have the power to work towards a unified strategy for further work on the Iraq issue. Maintaining the authority and ability of the Council to fulfil its tasks requires willingness to compromise and respect the Council's special position on issues of threats to international peace and security. We have seen it as imperative to contribute to the abolition of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction without the use of military force. The use of military power must always be an absolute last resort when everyone else is tested and if the option is worse. The same basic ethical position was the basis of the assessments and choices made in connection with the Al Qaida terrorist network and the brutal Taliban regime in Afghanistan and in connection with the operations in Kosovo. Then, as we know, our conclusions were different – then we supported the military actions. The fact that some countries have taken military action against Iraq without authorisation from a new Security Council decision has led to a debate on the relationship of this war with international law. The Swedish Prime Minister has stated that the United States is violating international law. On the other hand, from the British and Danish sides, there is evidence that there is a force for international law. This has been carefully assessed on the Norwegian side. The government is based on the international judgements of our own Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its expertise, on which I have not found it right to place political leadership. Summaries can be found on this background: In its continued violation of Resolution 1441, there is no doubt that Iraq has suffered the most serious consequences. The material requirements of international law for the use of power in accordance with the United Nations Charter and Resolution 1441, in conjunction with Resolutions 687 and 678, are therefore clearly present. However, the UN Charter and the system in Resolution 1441 also show that there are procedural requirements to be met, i.e.: the procedural requirements for the implementation of the use of power. This implies that the views of the Security Council must be clearly expressed. We must note that the Security Council did not agree on a new decision that actually stated that the last opportunity for a peaceful solution had been exhausted, which in case – had they agreed on it – would provide an undisputed basis of international law for the use of power. Of course, international law can raise questions about whether power use without a new UN decision is in line with the UN Charter. However, the absence of a new Security Council decision does not necessarily mean that military operations are in violation of international law. To sum up these considerations of international law on this point: On the basis of the content of the decisions taken in the past and confirmed in Resolution 1441, Iraq is subjected to very serious consequences in the continuing substantial failure of this resolution. But without a new decision by the Security Council, there is no clear basis of international law for the application of power. This is our opinion, while we are aware that others will argue for other views. But the government's attitude is not primarily based on legal and international judgements. Based on an overall assessment, the government has reached a political conclusion, and it is clear. We can't give our support to this military operation. This is more political than a legal assessment. Allied and neighbouring countries have had differing views on aspects of the Iraq conflict. Our views are well known in other countries. I myself presented these, including: in a conversation with President Bush barely a week ago. The United States respects our positions and at the same time places the crucial emphasis on continuing the excellent and long-term cooperation between Norway and the United States. The president then also stressed in the conversation that there are natural discussions and differences of opinion between friends and allies. We agreed that the close and good cooperation between our two countries will continue. Unfortunately, we have seen that tensions have arisen within NATO in the handling of the Iraq situation. That we experience this kind of contradiction in a community of 19 democratic countries is something we have to count on. However, it is important that we now be able to put the disagreements behind us. The disagreement in the management of the Iraq crisis goes both between European allies and across the Atlantic. In other words, we are not opposed to a relationship between Europe and the United States. Norway was throughout the cold war among the NATO countries that had clear benefits of alliance solidarity. Now Turkey as a neighbouring country to Iraq is particularly vulnerable. This is the background to the measures taken by NATO to ensure the security of Turkey. This includes continuous surveillance of Turkish airspace and deployment of rocket systems to intercept enemy attacks. In addition, NATO Member States provide equipment to protect the civilian population from attacks by chemical and biological weapons. Norway is among the NATO countries that have contributed significantly to this, and we have met the needs defined by Turkey as particularly important. Our contributions follow naturally from our alliance commitments and are a visible expression of solidarity with our allies. It is now important that the cohesion of the UN Security Council and NATO be restored. Only in such strong international relations are we able to meet today's global challenges and threats. We do not yet know how much humanitarian aid is needed in connection with the ongoing conflict in Iraq. Scenarios vary greatly. Not least, there is considerable uncertainty about the size of refugee flows. Nevertheless, Norway's position is clear. The government is prepared to do its utmost to remedy the humanitarian situation, which can be very difficult. Norway has already committed 160 million. kr for humanitarian relief measures, of which 130 million. kr has already been paid. To date, Norwegian non-governmental organisations have paid 75 million. kr. The government is in the future committed to increasing humanitarian efforts and to participating in the post-war build-up of Iraq. A large part of the Iraqi population depends on the food distribution that takes place on the basis of the UN-guided ‘oil for food’ programme. Revenue under the ‘oil for food’ programme will continue to be able to finance significant food aid. Yesterday the Minister of Foreign Affairs sent a letter to the Secretary-General of the United Nations supporting the continuation of the programme. The UN Secretary-General yesterday requested the provisional continuation of the ‘oil for food’ programme by the Security Council. The request is now under discussion in the Council. It is, in principle, important that there is a clear distinction between military action and civil emergency aid. It also has an impact on the safety of auxiliary staff. In our view, the UN must have a primary responsibility for the humanitarian efforts in Iraq. I am therefore very pleased that Secretary-General Kofi Annan has made it clear that the United Nations is willing to take on such a role. We have already discussed humanitarian efforts with the UN in Geneva and New York, with the International Red Cross system and with non-governmental organisations. We will also draw on our national emergency response systems for emergency products and personnel, which have also been used in previous international crisis situations. We have to face up to the fact that the military action against Iraq can have an impact on the whole region. It could have negative consequences for the work of re-establishing the locked dialogue between Israelis and Palestinians. We must avoid, to a large extent, the spread of the conflict and the further deterioration of the spiral of violence between Israelis and Palestinians. Norway will continue its active involvement and support the efforts now being made to bring the parties back to real negotiations, primarily through the efforts of the so-called Quartet. We are aware that Mahmoud Abbas – better known as Abu Mazen – has now accepted the position as Palestinian Prime Minister. I hope and believe that the appointment of him will lead to both parties intensifying the work for lasting peace. It is also positive that the United States has committed itself to playing an active role in such a solution, as President Bush also stressed in our telephone conversation. The Americans have signaled that with the first intention they intend to present the so-called road map for peace. The situation in Iraq has led to widespread fear of new acts of terrorism in several parts of the world. In Norway, however, the threat of terrorism is considered to be generally low. However, there is a high level of safety associated with the representations of some countries in Norway. Defence has therefore introduced increased watchkeeping in military departments and installations. The government has organised work on ongoing emergency assessments. As a result of the terrorist attack on the United States on 11 September 2001, a wide range of measures have already been taken to reduce the vulnerability of society to terrorism. National preparedness measures have been reviewed and strengthened. Crisis plans at central, regional and local level are up-to-date and some urgent measures have been taken to strengthen Norway’s ability to prevent terrorist attacks and reduce vulnerability to critical societal functions. Furthermore, a broad review of civil protection and its strengthening of some 500 million has been carried out. kr. In addition, the health preparedness for nuclear, biological and chemical agents, the so-called ABC preparedness, has been significantly upgraded. We closely monitor the development of the threat picture against Norwegian shipping, especially in the Gulf. We have an ongoing dialogue with the industry on the emergency facility. Norway will continue its active commitment to contribute to the fight against international terrorism through the UN and NATO. The fight must be conducted with a broad range of instruments. It is necessary that we succeed. At the same time, we know that this fight is going to be long lasting. If we are to win, it is essential that the global alliance formed after the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001 be continued. Norway will maintain its strong commitment. We are actively involved in the fight against terrorism with economic, political, legal and military contributions. We continue our extensive engagement in Afghanistan to fight terrorism and rebuild the country. Norway has always argued that the UN Security Council has the primary responsibility for maintaining international peace and security. The UN is one of the carriers of our foreign and security policy. We must work within the framework of the World Organisation when looking for solutions to international conflicts. The government will work actively to strengthen the UN. We want the organisation to be the most powerful instrument possible. The UN shall be our foremost peace organisation in the work of international security and peace. It has been absolutely essential for us that the Iraq issue should also be addressed by the UN Security Council. Both while Norway was a member of the Council and later, we have consistently maintained that the UN has the primary responsibility and that it requires that the UN track be followed. We have actively tried to promote our views towards the members of the Security Council, even after we ourselves stepped out of the Council. In the Iraq question, the UN Security Council has experienced a setback. We have to do everything we can to make this a short-term episode. The UN has experienced setbacks before and has come back strongly. No one else can fill the role of the United Nations in an increasingly globalised world. The UN is becoming increasingly indispensable. We are already seeing signs that the Member States of the Security Council – regardless of different views on the Iraq issue – quickly want the UN back on track. It promises well, and there will be a development that Norway will give its wholehearted support. Finally, let me summarize my main points: Over many years, Iraq's weapons of mass destruction have caused concern to the world community – with good reason. Iraq has repeatedly failed to fulfil its obligations. On the basis of Security Council Resolution 1441, the weapons inspections were launched again before Christmas. Iraq has not cooperated as provided for in the Resolution. However, inspections showed progress, and we therefore wanted to give the inspectors more time. The Security Council did not have the power to find a coherent solution, which Norway strongly regrets. On this basis, the United States and the United Kingdom have started war, which Norway cannot support when military use has not been anchored in a new Security Council decision. In this situation, however, Norway will provide humanitarian aid and will subsequently also contribute to the post-war construction of Iraq. At the same time, the Government would stress the importance of helping to resolve the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians. It's a key to both securing these two people a future in security and reducing the tension across the region. It will also be a priority task for the Government to help overcome the contradictions we have seen within international organisations such as the United Nations and NATO. For Norway, the opening up of multilateral cooperation through the UN and transatlantic cooperation based on NATO will continue to be carriers of Norwegian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-21.ana.ud1301e217	The President will propose that a brief comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and possibly a closing post from the Prime Minister. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-21.ana.ud1301e222	First, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his presentation. The statement shows that there is a broad majority in the United Kingdom that supports what is an important main line in Norwegian foreign and security policy, and that the use of military power can only take place with a clear anchoring in international law. That is why we have always agreed that the use of military power against Iraq could only take place after a new and clear decision of the UN Security Council. That is not the situation today, and that is why we cannot support the war against Iraq. There we share the assessments that the Prime Minister has presented to the Stortinget today. The Workers' Party supported Norway's commitment to give Saddam Hussein clear notice that the use of power could be necessary when we voted in favour of Security Council Resolution 1441 last autumn. When we cannot give our support to the military operations now under way, it is because the possibilities of peaceful disarmament through the UN weapons inspectors are not exhausted. This work was, on the contrary, in the process of producing results. But the premise for continued weapons inspections was still military pressure against Iraq. Being for the peaceful disarmament of Iraq, but against the threat of the use of military power makes no sense. The use of military power must be the absolute last instrument. The human suffering and the political consequences of a war are so great that everything else must be tried before this instrument is put into operation. The world has not been convinced that all possibilities have been tested. The reason for going to war is not established. There is a heavy responsibility on Saddam Hussein for the situation that has now arisen. The Iraqi regime has for several decades committed serious violations against countries in the region and against its own people. It is a significant dilemma for the world community that this has been going on for so long, and that Saddam Hussein has repeatedly ignored the instructions of the UN Security Council. It itself puts international law on a serious test. The war is now a fact. We must now hope that the battles will be as short-lived as possible, and that the civilian losses will be as small as possible. In the coming years, Norway needs to contribute in particular in three areas: Firstly, Norway must actively contribute to the humanitarian aid work for which there is already a great need. We must be prepared to increase humanitarian efforts through the UN and international and national humanitarian organisations. The government has broad support in the United Kingdom to make significant contributions to humanitarian aid. I assume that the Government will keep the Storting informed about what it is doing, and that if necessary it will come to the Storing with proposals for additional appropriations if necessary to provide the necessary assistance for humanitarian aid. I also welcome the initiative of UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan on possible adjustments to the oil-for-food programme. It's good that the government follows up this. Secondly, we must ensure that when the military action is over, the international community must be involved in rebuilding Iraq, and that the UN must again play the leading role in this work. Thirdly, Norway must now demand the introduction of a new gift in relation to the Palestine/Israel conflict. We have to expect the Americans to show that they are serious about getting ahead of the peace process and that they are presenting a new so-called road map. We couldn't stop the war, but we can have a clear view of what's going to happen after the military action is over. In this way, Norway can make its contribution to trying to reduce the negative consequences this conflict may have for the Iraqi people, for the Middle East as a region, and for the whole world community. In this way, we can help to strengthen international law, strengthen NATO and strengthen the efforts of the UN to play the central role in ensuring peace and security in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-21.ana.ud1301e250	Like the previous speakers, let me begin by thanking the Prime Minister for a good, clear and broad presentation. It confirmed the fixed line that Norway has had in the Iraq issue. It points out that war is evil, and that we should therefore do everything we can to avoid an armed conflict. This has been done by the Government by consistently following the UN track and stressing that any military action must be anchored in international law and in a new decision of the Security Council. This is a line that has broad political support in Stortinget, and I am pleased that the leader of the Workers' Party now underlined that in its contribution. It is a strength for this country, and I am pleased about that. Norway has always worked for a strong and functioning UN. There is reason for deep concern that the United Nations Security Council, after 12 years of resolutions, decisions and pressure, was unable to gather on the Iraq issue. Much could have been said about it, but in my opinion some of the major acts of the Security Council have unfortunately contributed to creating an unnecessary uncertainty about the will to act against the regime in Baghdad. It may have helped to reduce the pressure on the regime, but unfortunately I don't think it has benefited peace. I therefore fully agree with what the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister have repeatedly said, that consensus in the Security Council was what could avert a war. I have also noticed that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Thorbjørn Jagland, has underlined the very same thing. That was good advice, and several countries should have listened to these advice. There is therefore good reason to regret that the Council was now split. This has weakened the authority of the United Nations. But the main responsibility for the present war in Iraq is, however, solely on the regime in Baghdad. There was agreement in the Council on Resolution 1441, with its demands. It is quite clear that the requirements have been broken. We must not forget that, since 1991, Iraq has failed to comply with the binding decisions of the Security Council and has done what they have been able to do to prevent the investigation of weapons inspectors. It is Hussein's lack of cooperation and follow-up to UN resolutions that is the cause of the conflict we are now unfortunately having. I said initially that war is evil. Tying to military power is a defeat in itself. It makes it clear that diplomatic and political attempts to resolve the conflict have failed. Of course, Norway cannot support a war that is not clearly and completely supported by international law and at the same time is linked to a decision by the Security Council. Now, however, we are there that the war situation and the acts of war have begun. Then we must not forget that the regime in Baghdad is one of the worst this world has ever seen. The Prime Minister was in on it. Saddam Hussein has invaded land twice. He's been using chemical weapons against his own civilian population. He has killed over 5,000 of his own in such an attack. He has actually also killed his own son-in-law, and he has not hesitated to kill those who were critical of his regime. This is a fear regime, and I stress for my own part that I will not cry a tear if this regime goes away. War will always hit innocent people. It is therefore important to support this. Kofi Annan's appeal to both sides of the war to take the utmost account of the civilian population, as the Prime Minister also stressed in his intervention. Norway has a strong humanitarian tradition, and it is important that we help the civilian population in Iraq. I am therefore pleased with what the Prime Minister said that this is precisely a main task and that this track will also be passed through the UN. I think that's important. Finally, let me mention three wishes that were set out in the Prime Minister's statement: firstly, it was that the acts of war had to be over quickly; secondly, that the suffering of the civilian population was minimised; and thirdly, that Iraq and the Middle East could now have a stable future based on peace, freedom, security and democracy. It certainly deserves this part of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-21.ana.ud1301e267	I also thank the Prime Minister for a thorough and broad account both of the course of events and of the current situation. The Progress Party has long supported the Government's line in the Iraq conflict, and in particular Resolution 1441. We also supported the desire for a new UN Security Council resolution. We have never said that it was necessary, but we supported the wish. We feel that the Norwegian Government failed its friends for the first time when, in our recent intervention in the Security Council, we did not actively support the motion for a resolution from the United States, the United Kingdom and Spain. We should have supported this motion for a resolution, even if it did not give any authority or authority at all. It became clear that when France, Germany and Russia, in particular, avoided the responsibility they should have realized that they were taking part in the adoption of Resolution 1441, it was not possible for the Security Council to reach an agreement. That's because France announced that they would veto anyway, if the resolution contained some automatic. There is the responsibility that there was no consensus in the Security Council. I find it particularly regrettable when everyone agrees that the reason why the inspectors made some progress was that the United States and the United Kingdom took on the burden of a military escalation with military forces. Free passengers are France, Germany and Russia, and unfortunately also partly Norway, which has in fact hindered the implementation of 1441. Problems have been put in the way of the countries that incurred the burdens, which you yourself would benefit from. You wanted the benefit of the United States and the United Kingdom, but you wouldn't take any of the costs and the burdens of doing it. Norway could have chosen – I am pleased the Prime Minister said this was policy and not legal considerations – to support the United States, Denmark, Italy, Spain, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Poland, Hungary, Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, Australia and Japan. It was a political choice that the government made when they chose France, Germany and Sweden instead. As far as international law is concerned, the Danish report states that a wide range of countries agree that a new resolution would have been desirable but not necessary. It is important to note here that the draft resolution did not contain any authorisation for the use of power, as such authorisation already exists. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs Legal Department says the same thing: ‘In our opinion, Resolution 1441 thus confirms the continued validity of Resolution 678 and the authorisation of use of power declared there.’ It is clear that the UN Security Council authorises Member States to use all necessary means to establish and implement UN Resolution 660 and all relevant subsequent resolutions to restore international peace and security in the area. It has been corroborated in substance by Resolution 1441. It's a political choice the government parties and the Workers' Party choose when they try to push international law ahead of them. I am pleased that the U.D. judicial department provided an additional investigation – which we received today – that underlines this even more. There is nothing in international law about procedural matters that the Prime Minister concerned, and in 1998 Norway – with the Labour Party – and Denmark supported the bombing of Iraq with the same legal basis that still exists. I'm worried about the future. Our security has depended on the United States, the United Kingdom and the other NATO countries. Is it really the case that we have now gambled and said that if we are faced with problems in the future by a possible new and worse regime in Russia – that can happen, we do not know what the situation is in the future – we have to rely on Germany, France and Sweden and Finland, as we have separated teams with the United Kingdom, the United States and the other Nordic NATO members Iceland and Denmark? It's an unfortunate choice that the Government and the bulk of the population here have chosen in terms of our own future security.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-21.ana.ud1301e291	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his statement, and not least for his position. I would like to thank you for the fact that Norway's voice in the international community is now clear that this is a war we cannot support. It's a position that's been under development in the last few months and weeks, and I don't think it's been unaffected by the mobilization that's happened to very many people in very many countries, who have protested against a war that they don't think has legitimacy. What I think has upset many are two things: one is that the threat picture has not matched what they saw. Iraq has been ruled by a cruel despot for many years, built up by the West. But now it was a weakened despot, and war against him could not be legitimized. The second is that UN weapons inspectors have said very clearly that they could achieve more, that they could achieve more on the road of peace and in the area of disarmament if they could continue to do so. A lot of people didn't get it to vote that they said war was the last way out, because it just seemed like there wasn't the last way out in this conflict. That's why we're very glad that Norway's voice is very clear when the Prime Minister says we can't support this war. SV is also pleased with the Government’s conclusion on international law. We agree that a war without a clear decision by the UN Security Council does not have legitimacy, and that is what the Government has stressed. We agree that the Government argues for it, but we may well think that the understanding of the opposite conclusion argues it a little bit intensely for some members of the Government. And this is really important, because this understanding is going to take the lead in how to develop international law further in the future. It is not the case that international law authorizes regime change as a goal of military action. International law provides for self-defence or a clear decision by the Security Council as a background for a military action. For small countries in particular, it is important to maintain that the Security Council and the United Nations and the international legal order must be founded when the world is left with one sovereign superpower that makes itself right and pushes other countries to follow their tracks, whether they are the United States tracks or the United States tracks. In this respect, it is very important that Norway is ready for this. I hear the Prime Minister so that he regrets the war, and then I hear representatives from the Right in the direction that they most regret that the Security Council does not legitimize the war. Now we're in a situation where it can be easy for someone to frighten by the fact that Norway's security is threatened because our position differs from that of the United States and the United Kingdom. That is a point that I think one should refrain from in a serious situation. I actually think it's such that the threat picture is undergoing significant change. That means that one of the things that are at risk of this war is increased recruitment for terrorism and terrorist activity. Norway’s position as such in this situation increases Norway’s security rather than the opposite, because it can just be a war that many people feel has no legitimacy, which can trigger risks to the security of those countries. As such, Norway’s position is to ensure Norway’s safety in a demanding security policy situation. We are now facing a game of chance in Iraq, and we do not know the outcome. We don't know if this war takes a short time or a long time. What we know is that there's gambling with civil life, that there's gambling in relation to recruiting for terrorist activities, and also that there's gambling in relation to what's going to happen in the future. Norway will have significantly increased revenues as the oil price increases in the light of the war in Iraq. It gives us a special obligation to be generous and consistent in humanitarian aid. The government should know that the SV will at all times support a significant escalation of Norway’s humanitarian efforts, and we welcome the fact that the Government will submit further proposals to the Stortinget to that effect. Otherwise, it is our duty to think in the long term in all the choices we are now facing. We cannot now invest in new dictators or new despots that could be a threat to security in 10 years or 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-21.ana.ud1301e312	I would like to thank the Minister of State for a good and broad interpretation of the assessments and policies of the Government in Iraq. It's a heavy day to stand here and debate when we know there's war in Iraq. The situation is demanding for the world community, for the nations and for us as individuals. I would like to commend the Norwegian Government, who has actively and conscientiously worked on this matter to find a peaceful solution. It's probably not so surprising that I think that line has been clear since this crisis began to sail again. The government has insisted that the United Nations should address the Iraq issue, because the United Nations trail was an alternative to war. This strategy has proved to be right. Eight out of ten Nordics say it was right of Norway not to support the United States and the United Kingdom's decision to go to war. This indicates that the government has done a good and solid job. The Christian People's Party believes that the use of military power should always be the absolute last resort when all other outlets are tried, and if the option is worse. In this situation, as he was now, we think that not all was tested. Despite the lack of cooperation from Saddam Hussein's regime, the UN's weapons inspectors believed that the work went forward, and Blix asked for more time. That's what the inspectors should have got. The point with Iraq was to disarm the country for any weapons of mass destruction, not a military action. As the Prime Minister said, there is no clear ground of international law for going to war. Norway is opposed to this war. We are thus giving a signal that Norway is not involved in developing international law in such a direction that a country can go under attack without the Security Council legitimizing this. The Christian People's Party believes that the military invasion of Iraq does not comply with its demands for the legitimate use of military power. The reason is that the Security Council has not dealt with a new resolution on the military invasion of Iraq. Resolution 1441 did not in itself give such a mandate for the use of military power, but believed that this could be the consequence if the regime in Iraq maintained its lack of cooperation with the weapons inspectors. We have to admit that military warlocks were needed to get Saddam Hussein to cooperate. In the case of tacks on the use of military power, the inspectors were let in, and first the inspectors got better job relationships. The treaty worked, and the work went forward in a meaningful way. Therefore, the inspectors should have worked there longer. Here I would like to add that those who had the conclusion that power could not be used the same thing have, of course, not been on the United Nations track either. There is also reason to say clearly from here today. The UN track was also to have power as a possible tool if one did not come into being in other ways. Unfortunately, when it comes to who has countered the resolution, there were locked positions here. Not giving more time, as the United States and the United Kingdom stood for, is regrettable, in the view of the Christian People's Party. But it is quite obvious that as soon as France was out there and announced veto even against compromise proposals from Chile and from Canada, it showed that both sides went into locked positions here. This led the Norwegian government to wish that the Security Council had to work together. We are troubled, but none of us can interfere with the fear and the mind of the Iraqi civilian population today. No matter how long the war takes and how the war is carried out, it will lead to the loss of civil life and major destruction of buildings and infrastructure. The humanitarian situation in Iraq before this war was already serious. The reason for that was the regime in Iraq. With this war now, the humanitarian situation becomes even more serious. Norway has a long tradition of providing humanitarian aid. And I'm going to give you that as well. When people lie, we as society and as individuals have a responsibility. Human beings in Iraq are not to blame for their leader being a dictator. Norway will therefore provide humanitarian aid even if we do not support the war. It has been assessed by the United Nations that the extent of internally displaced persons and refugees will depend on the duration of the war, and above all on whether Saddam Hussein is using chemical and biological weapons. I will end by joining the three important points that the Prime Minister had as his main focus for the future. I'm glad that so much of the Greatness joins the same points.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-21.ana.ud1301e335	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a thorough presentation. The attack on Iraq is sad, it is tragic, and it is meaningless. It's sad because every war is a defeat. It is tragic because the civil suffering will be great, and the stability of the whole region may be threatened. It makes no sense because the weapons inspectors were not given sufficient time to find out whether it was possible to disarm Saddam Hussein peacefully. The work of the weapons inspectors was interrupted at a time when the weapons inspections were working and when Iraqi weapons were destroyed. The attack on Iraq violates the fundamental principle of international law which requires all peaceful alternatives to war to be tested. The so-called diplomatic trail of the United States has been trying to bring together diplomatic support for its own policy, so-called preventative war, not to resolve a conflict within the framework of the United Nations. This shows that disarmament of Iraq, which the United Nations has called for and we all support, was not sufficient for the United States and the United Kingdom. Just a regime change was good enough, a regime change the UN has not required. In our opinion, international law is broken. And it is worth pointing out that a number of countries, including the United Kingdom, in the consideration of Resolution 1441 stressed that the resolution was not to be interpreted as implying automatic use of power. A superpower claiming the strongest right as a new doctrine undermines international law and everything Norway has fought for internationally in the postwar period. The centre party fears that, after what has now happened, we will be able to get a more dangerous and unpredictable world. If the United States could take power against established international traffic rules, why wouldn't other countries be able to do the same? This is getting more dangerous. The Central Party is pleased that Prime Minister Bondevik is very clear when he says that Norway cannot support the attack on Iraq. The government's reasons for this need to be presented clearly to the United States and the United Kingdom. France, Germany and Russia should also be given credit for preventing the worst possible outcome for the United Nations, namely that the United Nations Security Council had given way to the U.S. and British ultimatum as long as there was still hope of finding a peaceful solution to the conflict through UN weapons inspectors. I deeply disagree with those who have stated that the legitimacy of the United Nations is weakened. On the contrary. It is imperative to clarify that the United Nations has not weakened its legitimacy, but rather managed to maintain its integrity. The UN would be seriously weakened if the Security Council had allowed itself to be pressured into war that could have been avoided. The organisation has shown that it is not a superpower's extended arm. This will give the UN greater credibility in the long term. It would be serious for the UN if the organisation were perceived as an obedient tool for individual members. It is the people of Iraq who now have to pay the price of lack of patience to find a peaceful solution in the Iraq question. Thousands of innocent women and children will probably die the next few days and weeks. Even more people will have to flee and be commended humanitarian aid organisations. The more important it is that Norway does its utmost to support the humanitarian work now underway, thus limiting civil suffering to the extent that it is in our power. I hope a total increase is set to provide considerable resources for the relief work, and I am very pleased with the Government's emphasis on how hard it will be in this work. The UN must have the coordinating role in the work now being carried out. The government must also work actively to ensure that the UN is given the primary responsibility in the reconstruction of Iraq. Norwegian reconstruction efforts, practical and financial, must be channelled through the UN. The UN Secretary-General must be given broad powers to take action to alleviate the suffering of the civilian population. He must be given active Norwegian support, so that civilians do not lose any more in the main action game.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-21.ana.ud1301e354	A war has no winners, only losers, and war is always a evil one. The left is an opponent of this war, and it cannot support a war that also has no clear basis for international law. However, Norway must have a constructive hold that can help moderate the parties and reduce the human losses and injuries. Unfortunately, we must now realise that the fight for a peaceful solution to this conflict has been lost, and our forces must be involved in the work on relief measures in the difficult humanitarian situation that will arise. As the Prime Minister has done well, Norway is now going to do its best for this, both at the 160 million. kr that has already been allowed, and by increasing this effort. Of course, it supports the Left. Norway has a responsibility – and the Government is willing to take responsibility – for the civilian population in Iraq not to experience unnecessary suffering. The Left is also concerned that the «oil for food» programme is continuing, as the UN Secretary-General has called for, and as the Government supports. Norway has also taken initiatives to discuss humanitarian efforts with the UN in Geneva and in New York. Norway's humanitarian contribution, on the other hand, is not, and under no circumstances should it be perceived as anything other than support for the civilian population. Our contribution is not to view as support for any of the parties to the conflict. The left believes that this war could and should be avoided, even though we believe that Saddam Hussein has broken Resolution 1441. A united UN would have the power to force Saddam Hussein to negotiate the disarmament of Iraq. A united UN would have the power to force Saddam Hussein to fulfill the intentions of Resolution 1441. The Left and Government have always worked for a peaceful solution. We have been working all the time to find a solution within the framework of the UN Security Council. This position has had broad support both here in the Stortinget and in the Norwegian population. The left and the government have also said that Hans Blix and the UN weapons inspectors should have more time to do their tasks, simply because they achieved results in their work. The weapons inspectors were also the only ones who would be able to give us a good and neutral answer as to whether Iraq actually has and has had weapons of mass destruction. Now the answer to this question might come through bitter experience and great human suffering. There are no individual members of the Security Council to define when ‘the period of inspections and diplomacy is out and the time of military action’. Through this process, individual members of the Security Council have contributed to undermining the democratic world order and the mandate of the Security Council. However, the UN as an institution is not weak, and the organisation is more important than ever. The strength and independence shown by the UN will be decisive in securing a stable future based on peace, freedom and democracy in Iraq and the Middle East. It is also more important than ever for nations to be able to gather and discuss common solutions. International organisations held by the EU and NATO, together with the UN, have a very important role to play in facilitating such a dialogue. The Council of Ministers of the European Union is now meeting in Brussels to discuss Iraq, and in this very forum there is enough ubiquitous and perhaps divisive. We hope that the leaders of Europe are now conscious of their responsibilities and that they will at least be able to gather on a common humanitarian solution for Iraq. Finally, I would like to raise a very important issue, which is worrying. In all wars and in all conflicts there is a danger that international law will be violated and that human rights will be set aside. There is no doubt that Iraqi authorities and Saddam Hussein must be punished by the International Criminal Court for crimes committed for decades. It is also worrying that the United States, as it is now at war, has not recognised the International Criminal Court for War Crimes. The left is primarily concerned that human suffering must be avoided, and that we must settle down with humanitarian aid as easily as possible. Secondly, we are concerned about world society and international legal order. The international legal order is our common assurance of lasting stability and peace in the world, and we cannot accept that he is being neglected. Left hope, as everyone else has expressed, that this war is rapidly over. And, as the Prime Minister said, the most important thing afterwards is to win the peace. We hope that everyone stands up to win the peace afterwards, to give men in this part of the world peace, freedom, democracy and security for food and health and other good that we see as self-said – it truly detonates them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-21.ana.ud1301e384	I note with great satisfaction that there is very broad support for the main lines of government policy in relation to the Iraq conflict, and very broad support for the conclusions we have reached. The only deviation in this way, with regard to the main lines and conclusions, comes from the Progress Party, and therefore my final comments will be mainly part of the views expressed by the party's parliamentary leader, Carl I. Hagen. First, something that Hagen had in mind, where it seemed to me that he felt that there was nothing in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' international legal material about procedural requirements. But it does so in the supplementary note, on one sheet, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has today forwarded to the parliamentary leaders. The last section before the conclusion is on the procedural requirements. That's also what I referred to in my article, which has led us to our main conclusion, namely that there is no clear basis of international law for this war. Carl I. Hagen was otherwise very concerned about which countries we should support and not support. We could, for example, He said that we had chosen to support the United States and the United Kingdom, but we had chosen to support France and Germany. Let me make it quite clear: for the Norwegian Government, this has not been primarily a matter of choosing between countries. For us, it has been a matter of defining our policies and following them consistently. We have! We have sometimes been criticized for that. There have been journalists, and there have been magnificence representatives, who have asked: do you now support that and that country in what they said yesterday, or that and that country in what they mean now? It is not the way Norway should conduct foreign policy! We need to define our policies and follow them consistently, and we have done so. We have said from the first moment that it is the UN Security Council that is going to pave the way forward in this matter. One thing to remember is that Resolution 1441 provided for new treatment in the Security Council. And when, through several meetings, the Security Council did not agree on a new decision that authorized use of power, yes, it is an expression that the body responsible for assessing threats to international peace and security felt that the time was not in time for military use. The way of peace was to be tried on. That was also Norway's position. To ignore this, as Carl I. Hagen actually recommends today, would in my view have been a clear deviation from Norway's emphasis on the role of the United Nations in such matters. We didn't find a reason for that. I have no other reason to believe that this is an unfortunate choice in terms of our future security, as Hagen suggests. The President of the United States, our foremost NATO ally, has clearly assured me personally that our close and good cooperation both bilaterally and in NATO will continue, and has expressed respect for the fact that allies and friends can have different opinions. In the case of friends, I actually appreciate them the most by my friends who dare to say from even when they disagree with me, who advise me to correct the course if they think it's crazy, and not just talk to me after the mouth. That's really good friends! Friendship does not require agreement in any situation on any matter. In addition, more NATO countries have different views than the United States and the United Kingdom on the issue of military use of power in Iraq now. I think I'll stop by this. I record that there has been a very broad dissension about the Government's position, about the main lines of our Iraq policy. It is important, because a broad consensus on foreign and security policy is itself a strength, and it gives us security in our further work on this issue as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-21.ana.ud1301e402	The debate on the presentation is closed. The President will propose that the Prime Minister’s statement on Iraq’s issue be annexed to the Minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-21.ana.ud1301e415	There is no record.
