ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e400	Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Finn Kristian Marthinen on leave of 16 and 17 June to attend the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union in St. Petersburg, from the representative of Einar Holstad on welfare leave from 16 June until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: Eldbjørg I. LundbyFor Buskerud County: Unni Hennum Lie
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e433	Erdbjørg I. Lundby and Unni Hennum Lie are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e438	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e443	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e448	Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as chairpersons. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are considered unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e456	The representative of Trond Helleland will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e460	I would like to suggest to you by Mr Trond Helleland, Mr Thorkildsen, Mr Lilletun and Mr Trene Skei Grande that they should suspend the decisions taken in the course of the process of Innst. S. No 245 from the Judicial Committee on several effective measures to prevent child Abduction and to facilitate the return of children to caregivers — Decision No. 482 on 10 June – and proposals from Trond Helleland, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, Jon Lilletun and Trine Skei Grande to ban wolf hybrids, American Staffordshire terriers and mixtures involving these breeds.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e465	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President of the Grand Duchy will draw attention to the fact that these two cases will be listed under Unit on the current map and proposed immediately. – But we will come back to that at the end of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e468	I understand that the President was aware of these two proposals. I would just like to ask the President how this relates to the provision of the Rules of Procedure that proposals which are finally decided in one session cannot be brought up again in the same session.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e475	The President proposes that we return to the procedure for this in the Unit later this evening. There is an opening in the Rules of Procedure to derogate from the main provisions of the Rules of Procedure and to take matters up to voting time. But we'll come back to that tonight or tonight. - No objections have been raised. At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e502	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party and Right 15 minutes, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to five lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers of each party group and after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e513	St.meld. No 20 for 2002-2003 is a follow-up to previous work in the Business Committee, which has highlighted the need for an overall discussion of structural measures in the coastal fishing fleet. Structure of the fishing fleet has been treated several times over the last 20 years. It is also clear that there has been a broad cross-political consensus among changing governments and a great deal that fishing capacity needs to be adapted to the available resource base in order to achieve sustainable development in industry. Structural measures are necessary to ensure the future of coastal fleets and in the interests of coastal communities. Not least, this is important to ensure the recruitment of the fleet. The government's objective is to have framework conditions that make the onboard workplaces attractive to young people who want to enter the profession. There should be an industry for which young people are seeking and on which people along the coast dare to invest because it contributes both to settlement and employment in viable coastal communities. A strong coastal fleet is one of several means of achieving regional policy objectives, and since the coastal fishing fleet is a carrier in the fishing industry, it also has a major impact on the future of coastal communities. The profitability and ability to renew the fleet are essential in this context. The measures will facilitate better profitability and greater opportunities for fleet renewal and help create attractive jobs that will enable young people to invest in their future in this profession. Today, the situation in the fishing fleet is characterised by overcapacity. International overcapacity in the fishing fleet is also placed in a wider global context and is considered to be the most serious threat to sustainable fisheries management. We need to take this inward, and at the same time we need to look into what we have known for a long time, namely that the fishing capacity of the coastal fleet is today far too high in relation to the available fishing resources. This is due to the fact that the fishing efficiency of both the sea fishing fleet and the coastal fishing fleet has increased dramatically over several decades. Unlike other industries, increased efficiency in the fishing industry will not increase total production because there are limitations in the resource base and total quotas. This also means, if anyone is in doubt, that the distribution of quotas between the sea fishing fleet and the coastal fishing fleet is fixed and has not been modified by the existing structural measures for the coastal fishing fleet. In the future, there will be a greater focus on ensuring the quality of those parts of the fish that are currently exploited, but also on taking care of those parts of the fish that are not yet exploited. To a greater extent, quality work will start on board the boat, and it is clear that in this context the coastal fleet has a unique prerequisite for delivering high-quality raw material. At the same time, such raw material provides a necessary starting point for the supply of high-quality products to the market. This could therefore develop into one of the main competitive advantages for the fishing industry as a whole. As the situation is today, we still have a little bit to go before the fishing fleet meets these future demands. Better use of raw materials is therefore an important ethical and economic challenge that we face. So this is another reason for improving profitability and renewing the fleet. The adequacy of the operational basis of the actors is crucial for their belief in the future. The pressure to act now so that the coastal fleet can maintain its position in the future is invaluable. However, there will be a balance here between the interests of the trader and those of local or district policy. These cross-cutting interests and considerations are important and, therefore, the measures must contain the necessary barriers in order, inter alia, to safeguard them. regional policy considerations. We also have to be honest enough to admit that the consequences of this will be that some boats will disappear – this is the case. If we are to take the challenges of overcapacity and technology development with increased catch efficiency seriously, this means that we have to recognise that what we have talked about and a little for a long time, we have to act. So let's go through St.meld. No 20. First of all, let me get to grips with what has been happening most: the Christian People's Party has not opened up to full quota transferability, nor does it have the implementation of structural measures for coastal fishing fleets. There is a disproportionate focus in the media on the full liberalisation of structural measures and the removal of all obstacles to the free movement of allowances. Let me be quite clear that this is not the case. The proposed structural measures have been further limited after the issue has been dealt with in Stortinget. In order to elaborate on this, I can say that this has been absolutely crucial for the Christian People's Party's ability to find good solutions for coastal fishermen in relation to the challenges of overcapacity. So there's a lot more to do before it's possible to lift these constraints in the next round, as it's claimed. One of the most important things that has happened is that we have started a process. When it was in its time suggested structuring for ringing notes and jets, it was controversial enough that someone had to go away. Today, we see that these groups are able to achieve profitability. So to the concrete measures contained in the Communication: a three-length quota cap and county limits limiting the negotiability discount of 20 pst. over the choice of time-limits; the curtailment goes directly back to society, which also has a dampening effect on the system’s tradability evaluation after three years of operation; the voluntary arrangement of transferring allowances between vessels of different sizes; hence, capping is suppressed and negotiability is reduced. I want to take some of the claims we've been met with, because I'm left with a feeling that there's a lot of prejudice and misinformation going on. It has been claimed that the districts will be depopulated and the jobs will disappear. This is not the case. These measures facilitate living coastal communities with a sustainable fleet through greater profitability and flexibility. At the same time, we facilitate fleet diversity by strengthening the different lengths. It is claimed that we are jeopardizing 1 000 jobs in the coastal fishing fleet. Here I would like to challenge the following: the trend in recent years has been a sharp decline in the number of fishermen. This would continue if we did not put in action. That means that the consequence of not doing anything is the most dramatic. The claim has been that we push the few young people who are left in the industry into the cold. I also want to refute this, because it is precisely by facilitating profitability, that the youth sees the value of investing in the fishing profession. In parallel with this matter, we discussed a Document No. 8 proposals for structural measures for young people. This has covered recruitment quotas for young people in the fishing industry. What is clear is that the focus on this is of great importance to today’s youth – it is the labour force of the future. We cannot tempt young people by offering scarce quotas and insufficient performance due to overcapacity, but we consider the problem to be considered in a larger fisheries context. It is therefore an overall committee that asks the Government to assess the different consequences of any recruitment scheme for young people. This is going to be interesting to follow the outcome. I finally want to get them a little ahead of me, who doubt the Christian People's Party in this context. In the past, the Christian People's Party has opposed the idea of fishing rights being subject to purchase and sale. In the past, we have argued that the consequences of the agreed fisheries policy and settlement targets must be presented to the Stortinget before any extension of the single quota system for boats below 28 metres. We do not conceal this, but at the same time we have assessed the situation as changed, because the deterioration in the resource situation has occurred faster than expected. The situation in relation to responsible resource management and sustainable development has gone faster than we had assumed. In addition, we believe that the lack of action on the topic that has been the subject of debate for over 20 years suggests that we must now act. We feel responsibility for pursuing a pragmatic policy and addressing the challenges. When we open the structural quota system for boats below 28 meters, as mentioned earlier, there are strong restrictions in it. We therefore believe that the measures are in the best interests of rational use of resources and of the environment. Our position has been measured up against and evaluated in relation to what the Christian People's Party has previously addressed. We do not fear that the solutions with subsequent limitations will lead to increased capitalisation and reduced local ties. This does not mean that the focus is more on return on capital and less on the emphasis on sound management of resources, local access and jobs in districts. On the contrary!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e581	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e584	I hear what Andersen Eide says, and that she is very sceptical about the outcome of what is going to happen here today. The Labour Party, together with the SV and the Centre Party, promotes a proposal that the societal consequences of implementing structural measures in the coastal fleet should be explored before this major reform is undertaken. This Christian People's Party has rejected, as the representative Andersen Eide himself was in – despite previous statements. Such an investigation has been requested from many teams. Among other things, in the largest municipality of the Christian People's Party in Norway, the municipality of Skjervøy in Troms, there is a decision on such a requirement, and there are important arguments that have been put in place. They're really worried -- they're worried about many others -- about what might happen. I heard what Andersen Eide said, but I want to know: what makes you have such a hurry that you cannot participate in such a debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e595	Yes, anti-slip – we should never be anti-slip. We have said that we will evaluate this structural quota system after three years. We think it is important to come up with that. But it's not doing anything, it's either that then the action junk will come over us. I think it's important in this situation that we do something, and that we do it now. It's not something we've been fighting with, because we've been doing this for 20 years and investigating and investigating. And one must then once come to a point where one puts his foot down and says that now is enough! I think we could figure ourselves out for 20 years to come, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e602	St. Report. No 20 was submitted by the Government, where the case-leader's party is a member. What I'm wondering is that the case-speaker is all, if one can use such an expression – I don't know if it's parliamentary, but it gets so much. At one point, the case-speaker breaks with the Government, and that applies to quota caps. I wonder why the Christian People's Party, probably, has pushed through in Stortinget an attitude that one will have quota ceilings, and that it should be limited to three. To say it this way, I am so glad that there were three and not two, as it was set to be a while. This surprises me a little bit, and it might be interesting to know the foundation, why the case spokesperson is right with the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e609	For us in the Christian People's Party, it was important to have the limitations that underlie what we say. Among other things, one of the most important things we brought with us was the quota ceiling of three. We think it would be a good idea to dampen the negotiability that there is a danger that it could be if we let everything go, as the Progress Party wants. So at that point, we want to tighten up what the government put forward in St. gemeld. No 20 – and there is no other reason than that!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e614	The case spokesperson held a good and offensive post for the government's policy. Two years ago, Mr Lilletun's representative stood on this same platform and proposed to evaluate the current unit quota system before possibly extending the scheme. And the Christian People's Party voted against the law because this evaluation was not carried out. In the setting we have on the table today, the majority recognize the need to evaluate the scheme after a while. Then my simple question to the case-speaker: why does one not evaluate the schemes that already have the consequences of, but that we have not been able to demonstrate the consequences before a set of measures is implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e623	We have a practice with a unit quota scheme in relation to the sea fishing fleet. We've seen what happened there. It is this and the assessments made in relation to the sea fishing fleet that are also the basis for our wish to do so in the coastal fishing fleet. There are limits to how long you're going to evaluate a system. An evaluation of this structural quota scheme, and its effects, will be provided after three years of operation. Then we hope that we have received an answer to what Åsa Elvik asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e630	If things go as the Minister of Fisheries at least hopes, much of the structural changes will have been made in three years. The Christian People's Party has now accepted a system in which those who buy allowances are purchased for all time. It's okay to evaluate this scheme after three years and see if it's been working the way you thought or not. I could imagine asking the representative Andersen Eide: what kind of action do you intend to take in three years' time, when those who buy the quota sit with it for all time, and it won't be possible to do anything but go ahead with the structural changes, as you did in Iceland, when you opened up the free movement of allowances, when they had their first evaluation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e638	With regard to the allocation of allowances for so-called eternal time, I would like to remind the representative, Mr Enoxen, that allowances are allocated annually. If a boat has been granted a concession of three allowances, you must receive that permit every year. That's the first one. Secondly, why do you have to evaluate after three years? Do we not believe in this arrangement? Yes, we have faith in the system, but we also believe that no system is so good that there can be no distortion. If we see that it evolves, we need to make adjustments. That's what we want to maintain. If we get warped in development, we want to do something with them. Finally, I want to give credit to Ludvigsen – I should have done so before – because he has made this message possible. It's going to be brave to put your foot down and say, "Now we're doing, now we're doing what we believe in."
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e645	The Christian People's Party has been positive in meeting the local population along the coast to explore regional governance models. Many are concerned with identifying such a regional model, because they believe that this can help to secure the values of society along the coast, prevent the privatisation of rights and the sale of rights from the community. I understand that this has been something of a Christian People's Party that has also been concerned about. From the Christian People's Party municipality of Skjervøy this has been strongly highlighted. Why won't the Christian People's Party even ask this question before putting into action a drastic structuring, like what we see now?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e652	It's constantly being asked for further investigation, a better basis for what we're doing. I am a little surprised that you are not now able to see that we have to act, not just think, evaluate and make even more groceries. The former State Council of the Workers Party, Otto Gregussen, had probably thought a good deal of these thoughts even when he left in the autumn of 2001. We can see from his last speech to the Fiskerlages national meeting that a structural change, as we are proposing today, is enough thoughts that the Workers' Party has also thought before.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e659	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e662	The fishing industry is Norway’s second largest export industry and is essential for coastal settlement, employment and business. The coastal fishing fleet plays a very important role here. The Committee agrees that fisheries resources are the property of the Community and are to be managed and exploited by the Community for the benefit of economic development and housing. On the part of the Labour Party, we want to take this into account when adopting new framework conditions for industry and for the local population along the coast. That is why we believe that it is so necessary to take time to look at the social consequences of the extensive interventions that the Storting is invited to do today. In consultations held by the Committee and in the opinions delivered on the structural communication, the need for a better basis for the Storting's examination of this major communication has also been a significant focus. A fisheries-dependent municipality such as Skjervøy in Troms has stated in an opinion that important changes to the fisheries policy need to be assessed in a consistent way before they are implemented, and they have pointed out several unresolved issues. Several other municipalities, county councils, Sametinget, regional councils, fisheries organisations, environmental organisations and political parties are also concerned. Researcher Jahn Petter Johnsen at Building Research in Trondheim says in a newspaper post that he sees it as obvious that the message will lead to an even more marginalisation of the importance of fishing for coastal settlement and employment. First anamunensis Torbjørn Trondsen at Norway's fishing high school in Tromsø says in a newspaper post that the result of the grossing up message can become a more indebted fleet with significantly reduced employment, but that many of today's boat owners can retire with millions in the bank from the sale of their fishing rights. I am amazed that the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party have not noticed such important arguments, and do not see the need for a more comprehensive analysis of today's situation and of the consequences of the measures in the communication. After all, we are talking about the future of many vibrant and important communities, which have large natural resources just outside the living room door. In view of the fact that the fish is a national common resource, the Labour Party has sought to prevent the introduction of negotiable fishing quotas in Norway. That is why we proposed that the right to exploit the combined allowances should be limited to 10 years, but this does not have a majority. However, I am pleased that the Workers' Party has included the government parties on a proposal to set a quota ceiling. Many have set out to look at regional models of fisheries resource management, including regional quota funds and quota banks. This has been argued by the fact that the regionalisation of rights can ensure the values of society along the coast, avoiding large values from fishing being privatised and sold out by local communities. At a time when many coastal communities are struggling, we should also look at such constructive input, but I note that the government parties and the Progress Party do not want such an assessment. It is most surprising, as said, that the Christian People's Party also rejects this. I fear that the Storting can today give the start of a situation that can lead to a more negative development for our coastal communities. I am also very concerned that we exclude many young skilled fishermen from the dream of doing their own business on their own fishing boat. How can it be possible to recruit young people for such a profession when the right to fish costs far more than a young fisherman can generate from capital? I refer to the proposals from the Workers' Party that are in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e683	The representative Bendiks H. Arnesen has taken up the proposals he has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e688	It is a little strange that the Labour Party, the Norwegian Labour Party, which is talking about national resources and national values, is now suddenly going to regionalise at a local level when it comes to fish resources. Almost every municipality, at least every state, has to sit with its own value, its own quotas. Is not the fish a national law and resource? I wonder how the Labour Party, and not least the people with a northern dialect, would have reacted if we were to regionalise our oil resources in the same way and said that the decisions and the right to rule were to be regionalized so that it was Rogaland, Hordaland, More and Romesdal and Sogn and Fjordane that would rule over them? I don't understand where the Workers' Party will, and it would be interesting to get a closer look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e695	Now the representative is talking about Solholm as if we had concluded. In our proposal, we are only asking for an investigation. There have been very strong arguments about regionalisation, and we just have to admit that the argument that proximity is right should also count – but we have not concluded. We are willing to investigate this, but I note that the government parties and the Progress Party are not, despite the fact that very strong arguments have come from those who have the resource right outside the living room window and have no opportunity to exploit it, so that they can maintain their communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e702	In his statement, Arnesen frames up a lot of hearing bodies to which he refers. However, most of these hearing bodies do not have the responsibility for the whole, for the resources in their entirety, which we have when we have to make a decision. We know that there is overcapacity within this group of vessels, and we feel that there is a threat to fish stocks. Does not the representative of Arnesen realise that there is a need for structural intervention in this group, which actually has too much overcapacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e709	I have framed both county municipalities, assembly, municipalities, environmental organisations and fisheries organisations in my post. It is bodies that have a significant responsibility for this industry and for other industries. The county councils as regional development actors should in particular be justified in their opinion, and they have also been given the opportunity to comment in the notification. Once again, I have to say that we have not said that we are totally opposed to structuring. But we have said that we need to look at the social consequences. It can't be that we're going so fast that we don't get to see if this destroys coastal communities – whether it's that where the smallest fleet is the bearer of society, you're going to destroy the district.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e716	I thought that the Labour Party has taken some very good stand in the setting that we have for treatment today. Among other things, an impact assessment is requested before a set of actions is taken. A request for regional allowance management – not quota ownership, as I understand the proposal, but regional allowance management. Two years ago, when this House of Law was given, it was at the suggestion of the Labour Party in government. Then one voted against the proposal to evaluate current schemes before giving legal advice to new ones. I understand that a slightly different view of it, as time passes and the world matures, but I think it's a little unclear, as the setting leads now, how the Labour Party subsidizes the Government's proposals. Does a structural quota support as it stands when the Labour Party does not agree to proposals for regional management of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e724	Yeah, I guess it's right that things mature. And when you see a negative development out in the coastal communities, you have to have time to sit down and assess whether what you've done is right. I don't think it can be clearer in the setting than what it says there. We have said that measures cannot be implemented until the things we have outlined have been assessed and assessed in a consistent manner. It can't stand much clearer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e729	I just want to remind Bendiks Arnesen that, based on the bill that was discussed in June 2001, I think it was, the ministry already has a legal base that allows one to introduce some structural measures into the coastal fishing fleet. We asked for a big message, and we received a big message, and the analyses that were made in this connection were found there. Then I ask: will it ever come to a time when we don't have to wait for anything before we can go from word to action? Does the Workers' Party believe that we will ever come to a time when everything in all areas and levels has been assessed and assessed consistently, or is this about the fact that the Workers' Party has not finished working through the fisheries policy in its own party? Or is it part of the labelling policy that we have seen a lot in recent times?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e736	Yeah, that's right, as the representative says, that we've been involved in putting in place a law on this. But what we might say to have seen in retrospect is that the message we asked for did not contain the clarifications and analyses that we thought had to be in place to take a position on this matter. I believe that the matter can be resolved at a time when all the good forces are put in place. But then you have to draw with all the communities that are now sitting and shaking over what is about to happen. If we are to analyse the future conditions of these fisheries coastal communities, we must have them on board. Today, there are an incredible number of them. I want to refer to an article in the newspaper yesterday, which describes that the concern of parts of our coastal communities is very great.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e741	I'll get a quote from a committee comment: ‘This has led to a difficult situation today and the Committee recognises that we currently have overcapacity in fisheries.’ Why does the Labour Party not address this challenge with a single proposal for action in connection with this treatment? So Bendiks Arnesen says on the grounds that the Workers' Party will have investigated the question, that proximity to the resources is correct. An interesting question for many. This means that, on the part of the Workers' Party, it is also possible to decide whether the same principle should be applied by reference to the Norwegian oil and gas resources, for example.? I am quite convinced that people in the Rogaland area will have great interest in such an investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e753	Yes, I recognize that we have overcapacity – overcapacity in relation to the resource we can take out. But I'm not so sure that what we're doing now, taking out the fleet that's the one that's taxing at least per. work is what can reduce overcapacity. I'm not sure that medicine will work, so I'm very concerned about what's going to happen next round. Then the representative Kristiansen draws out the oil resources. I do not think this is comparable. The fish is a renewable resource, a resource we have to take care of and tax on the basis of very special principles. So it's not comparable at all. I think it is strange to draw the oil into the debate on fishing at this level.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e760	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e763	The line of today's debate has been set, and let me just begin by stating that I think the rapporteur has made an excellent presentation of the Committee's proceedings and the main conclusions reached by the majority in the committee's position. There is also reason to pay tribute to the Progress Party and the representative of Solholm, who subsidly gives the Government and government parties support for the main lines of this big message. There is no doubt that Norwegian fishing industry has major problems and is struggling, as time has evolved. It's part of the picture we see around the world, especially in the markets that are going to accept Norwegian fish, which is essentially on the foreign continent. More than 150 nations receive fish from Norway. National consumption is almost nothing to count, and unfortunately we are in a situation where national consumption is too low. That's very regrettable. Norway is a great power on the sea. Norwegian sea areas represent six times the land area, and we are in charge of and sovereignty over more than 30 pst. of the land and sea of Western Europe. When, in many ways, not least internationally, we have taken on the role of precursor countries, it is very important when it comes to managing under the Ecovignette ‘resource conservation’ and other conditions that lie in how to be a precursor nation, that we meet our own requirements. We can say that with our hand on our heart today that we have not managed to achieve it. In some areas, we have been better than others, but in other areas, we're not much better than other nations that we want to correct the index finger to demand that we do something to preserve the wild fish stocks all over this globe, which is then to those degrees overtaxed. We see one report after another saying a lot about the state of things in terms of global governance. When someone today asks for further impact assessments, this is not to be expected except that you may not know where to put all the other impact assessments, which provide us with an overwhelming amount of evidence of how we have been able to manage our own resources, for which we have a supranational responsibility. Because there's nothing very good about it. Our biggest challenge in the field of fisheries policy today is to rebuild the stocks that are down to a minimum, while, of course, we have to do something about the challenges we face in the area of market access. Unfortunately, for too many years, dark people, as they grew older and older, have been allowed to put their mark on the Norwegian fisheries debate, and I see that they have not shyed down to premise today's debate either. It's a big regret. It is so strong to regret because we have seen that with open eyes we have moved in a direction where we have more or less managed to depopulate coastal communities. It can't go on like that anymore. The same advisers who make the premises – referring to the headline in the journal yesterday that Arnesen pointed out, where these dark people, often in an environment around the University of Tromsø, were given two new full-page attention – are allowed to tell how wrong it is if this voluntary scheme, i.e. a voluntary scheme, is implemented. This does not take place at any other rate than all other condemoration carried out during applause from the Workers' Party and other parties in this Chamber in the last years. Only between 1998 and 2002 was some 200 million allocated under the fisheries agreement. kr for the confederation of coastal fishing vessels. I did not hear one representative from the Workers' Party talking about the disaster that would affect the coast of Norway if this policy were pursued. It was a policy for which it was a matter of concern. This is a voluntary scheme which does not go beyond any of the fishing groups and which also has geographical boundaries. I repeat, since one after another is out there and tells of what kind of black death that will affect the coast of Norway, that we can approach the situation in a careful way by grasping the concept that needs to be grasped, namely to overcome some of the overcapacity in the marine industry. We have all the world's documentation on the table in front of us, which shows what the state of things is. We see that there are over-fishing, over-regulation, there are few weeks in operation during the year. And the biggest threat to the stock – I repeat it – is overcapacity. It's a threat to profitability, where, of course, it's also a hard test these days. Then it would be totally irresponsible for the Minister of Fisheries if he did not address this challenge, if he did not do anything about the situation, in line with what we did for the seagoing fleet, where we see tremendously positive results after the introduction of the unit quota system: capacity has been reduced far more than the many, many pessimists who were out and gave advice in advance, said. This is a careful approach. When we see the financial resources that are going to be put at the disposal of this question, I'm afraid that the challenge is that we probably take too little of getting rid of overcapacity. It is likely that the pace will not be much higher than it has been in recent years. And it has to light up a warning light at someone in this room when we see one of the main statements on CNN a couple of weeks ago, that over the last 50 years, 90 pst. the wild cod stock has been eradicated. We're about to navigate in the direction that the cod will be on a list of endangered species, which could lead to difficulties in dealing with the market. But if we listen to the advice of the dark subjects, we're going to move forward in a direction where the average age of the fishermen crawls up and up, the vessels are getting older and older, and a dark picture of the Norwegian fishing industry is drawn, a picture that becomes so miserable that the term'recruitment' is now really going to take place, probably, in a new investigation, which we're more than likely to be involved in, to make sure that someone has to look optimistic about the future, also for Norwegian fishing industry. We can no longer accept that there are 7 000 Danes who will be allowed to sit and stab the knife in Norwegian fish because these dark men have taken care to warn that Norwegian fishing industry must have conditions in the market that are not so much worse than those of all other fishing nations. So to the proposal of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. I don't know if the Workers' Party itself believes that it's feasible, even if you let some of these mentioned men from Tromsø throw themselves into investigating the question. But we're talking about a wild population that crosses national borders and county borders, and that on these migrations in search of food, in search of spawning grounds, goes as far as from the Lofoten, where the cod was born, to the Barents Sea, where it grew up, often on the Russian side, and then to move down the Norwegian coast all the way down to the Møre Coast. Some other fish strains are within the Icelandic zone before going out into the Mutthole, the Mutthavet, etc. So, through this proposal, you have to put aside what we have today in terms of schemes – I assume that the Norwegian Fisheries Team Regulatory Committee will end up in the history books to have this so-called regional administration. Will there be more fish in the sea by regional government? Is overcapacity increasing or decreasing? And as some people suggest, you have to make sure that these regional terms are allowed to buy capacity in the future. No, I think you have to look with new, fresh eyes at the Norwegian fisheries policy. It is now necessary to contribute to the repatriation of the strength of the Norwegian fishing industry. In fact, the fishing industry produces 13 times more — in kilos of fish — than one does in agricultural meat production, but we are thus equipping this industry with a sort of 'lua in hands' mentality, where we allow the darkest of the darkest of the darkest of the darkest of the darkest of all to see how this industry will be allowed to develop in the future. And if there's no profitability, a balance between capacity and resource, we're going to further sail this industry into a dark situation. Fortunately, together with the Minister for Fisheries, the bulk of the population wants to put an end to the further development of this dark mindset.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e792	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e795	It is produced as if there were disagreement here in Stortinget about maintaining a sustainable fisheries resource. So there is no disagreement – I don't think so. I think everyone wants to take care of the fishing resources. So the representative Kristiansen says that there are a lot of impact assessments. Then I ask, what kind of impact assessments are you thinking about when it comes to these forms of structuring? The other thing I would like to point out is that in the Sunday newspaper, there is therefore a fisheries lawyer who says that the Storting is about to commit something illegal when it introduces this kind of negotiable quota. Isn't this worth looking at? Is it just hesitation from this lawyer?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e802	When this lawyer says that the Storting is about to do something that carries something completely illegal, my clear answer is: Yes, if he's quoted correctly, it's the purest hesitation this lawyer is also defending this time when he speaks about the Government's fisheries policy. I also believe that when we take into account all the reports provided by the Marine Research Institute in Bergen, together with the international marine research reports, we have chosen far too many times to add to the conclusions of these reports. That's the kind of setback we're unfortunately being punished for today, and that makes us overtime have to act relatively radical.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e807	I must first thank the representative for the rose. It's okay to bring them into the summer holidays. What surprises me a little bit is that one is so limited to the Finnmark model – one doesn't see the forest for just three, as we say on our edges of the country. One finds that several crews have boats over and under 21 metres, but because one is so square, it is not possible for a fleet team to merge an 18-meter boat and a 22-meter boat to structure. Then a achieved little, I thought. I hope that the Right can be a little more flexible in the practice of this 21 meter limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e815	The representative, Solholm, is involved in a topic that is raised by several people. That may also show some of the tension in our views and in the debate we have today, how it jumps quite wide. But to Solholm's question, I just want to point out that this is a test scheme. It will initially last for five years and will be evaluated over a three-year period. So I think that during this period we will have sufficient experience material that can be used to assess whether we are going to go further in the direction of the ship group that the representative Solholm mentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e822	I thought there were at the top of many symbols and at the bottom of the area policy in the post from Kristiansen. I probably get to assume that Kristiansen puts me in the category of dark men even if I have a little more feminine appearance. Kristiansen surprisingly talked a little about the arrangements proposed by the government. He spoke surprisingly little convinced that the arrangements are going to serve the goal that they are actually going to set. Kristiansen has been a good ally in the job focusing on the fact that a resilient management of resources must be overarching. But I have to say that after today I wonder what is actually Kristiansen's strategy to achieve this goal, to build up the resources. What is the best resource building strategy? To reduce the number of boats has been our Norwegian official fisheries policy for 80 years. It has not started the purpose. Ergo needs to find the problem somewhere else, and the solution must be different. What are the Kristians ’ solutions to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e831	Clearly, the concept of ‘overcapacity’ is all, the greatest threat to a better balance in the convergence between capacity and resource situation. I am convinced that the representative Elvik very much agrees with me. Then, unfortunately, we have to address what is the greatest of all challenges. In addition, when we can ensure that reduced overcapacity, almost a balance sheet, can also allow for greater profitability in the fishing industry – a lack of profitability I have seen that SV’s representative Elvik has repeatedly pointed out the need to do something about it – we will see that a stabilised/increased balance can become a germ for perhaps more robust and strengthened settlement, which is also an incentive to achieve better and greater recruitment to the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e838	Ivar Kristiansen's posts were a post that we've heard so many of them from that edge, that I must admit that I actually can't quite rise above his description of the darkest of the darkest men. However, the starting point for the intervention by Ivar Kristiansen was the concern about the resource situation in the fishing industry. There's a concern that there's every reason to share. Most countries have fished down their resources and are now struggling with overcapacity, with low profitability and with an industry where the resource base has been reduced. From 1990 to 2002, the number of coastal fishing vessels has been reduced by 24 pst, while capacity has increased by 30 pst over the same period. Fewer vessels, more capacity, and more profitable vessels have become worse and worse throughout this period. My question to Ivar Kristiansen is, what makes the Right think that by continuing on the same path they are going to reverse this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e847	I think there is a relatively simple answer to Mr Enoxsen's question. It's to act in such a way that it's simply less likely to allocate the allocated quota to. Today, unfortunately, because of the overcapacity we have, a modest quota has to be allocated to many. Now we get units out of active fish, while it becomes more accessible to those who stay. With my return on math education at school, it means that there will be more sharing by fewer, which will provide an opportunity for greater profitability. An alternative policy, to which I understand the representative Enoch swears, is to wait and see. It doesn't take this government and the majority parties the chance, because then we continue the depopulation of Coast Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e854	Action may be good, but it's not necessarily a good act if you don't have a full overview of the consequences of what you're doing. That's what the Workers' Party has pointed out that you should have gotten a better overview of. More structural measures in the fisheries sector have been implemented over time. One of the instruments used has been the unit quota scheme. There has been considerable criticism, including: by the government partners of the Christian People's Party, for the effects claimed by that arrangement. The proposal, which is likely to receive a majority today, involves substantial changes to the unit quota system, firstly by the fact that the Government's proposal is not limited in number and that it is not limited in time. If the representative of Kristiansen agrees that what appears to be adopted today involves a permanent merger, which thus goes beyond the consequences of what has been followed by the unit quota system that has been introduced, inter alia. in parts of the trawler fleet, and in that way means a more permanent consolidation and modification than that of the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e861	I think we are wise to deal with the decision that the Storting is going to take today, which gives us the opportunity to evaluate the scheme. I have noticed that the Workers' Party uses the Christian People's Party as a target in this debate. They have some sort of stigmatizing uprising against the Christian People's Party, often by reference to the municipality of Skjervøy as a kind of exhibition window for how the Workers' Party intends to do things. I think you'll be dealing with the realities of the message as it exists. It is also clear from the review that the fleet scheme has been a formidable success. Finally, what are the ex-fisheries ministers, who support and recommend this communication, mistaken, including the former Fisheries Ministers of the Workers' Party, who state that, for all the world, have adopted the Government's proposal? It'll be crazy not to do anything. What are these, who themselves have been held responsible, and who give the government the advice we intend to follow today, are wrong in?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e870	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e873	Today we need to discuss fisheries and the coastal fleet. He's part of the big connection, of the marine industry, which we're all a few at a time in the future is going to be the industry that's going to give us incomes of the same size as oil revenues. Then I think it's important that we have relationships and framework conditions that make it possible to develop this industry in the future, so that it can become the heavy economic pillar of Norwegian society. Then we have to take certain steps, and I thought that this message is a step in the right direction. What is perhaps the most important of all we're facing, which is a major challenge, is to make fish stocks and fish stocks so big and resilient that we can house with the profitability of these resources. As a result, we also meet for years when it comes to how we manage our fish resources, making stocks big, and when we've got the big ones, that we can't house more than they can bear in terms of the future. I also think it's important that we get the recruitment mentioned in Document No. 8:88 and in the setting of that, we need an industry that is modern, which has modern working conditions for them to add. That doesn't mean that a fisherman doesn't have the same framework conditions for entering a fishing boat that he has to board another vessel. If we're going to be able to do that, we're going to have to pay for every single vessel. How do we get that? We don't get that without getting more revenue on each boat. And how are we going to get bigger revenues on each boat? Then we have two ways to go. It's either to increase the output of the resource, so that the boats get larger quotas, or to reduce the number of boats, so that each boat can get a larger share of the total quota. It's not worse math than that. That fishermen will build boats that are more efficient and that are perhaps bigger in the first place is understandable. There's a big difference between a 35-footing from the 1960s and a 35-footing today. We know that. And it's not natural for fishermen to have good jobs. It must also be important. Then we have to take care of ourselves so that it is possible to obtain wages on board each boat, so that it becomes interesting for the youth to board and become fishermen. It applies to the sea-going fleet, and it applies to the coastal fleet. I think a person in the message is plotting to take part of these signals seriously. I feel that the message goes in the right direction in relation to building stocks, creating profitability on board the boats, creating a basis for recruitment and at the same time making it possible to create good jobs, but I did not think she was going far enough. I don't understand why a person is so afraid of transferable quotas, if he organizes them in a way that doesn't make the big capitalists one of the small ones. Nor will I, even if we have a system of transferable quotas, have a system where the paper movers in the Holmenkol lock are going to sit and manage our fish resources. That's not my point. I imagine, and I see the value of, that we have a large fishing area fleet where the ownership of the resources is related to this. Furthermore, it is unnatural to have this distinction at 21 m in the case of the structural quota system, for vessels between 15 and 28 m. I think it's an obstacle that means that you don't get a good organization and efficiency of your fleet. I want to point out again to some critics that this is a voluntary scheme. No one is forced to buy or sell. No one will be forced to either condemn or not to condemn. It's a voluntary scheme. And then each of them evaluate the price. It is claimed here that the bankline fleet/autoline fleet has become so hopeless. But employee party Knut Arne Høyvik says that there is nothing to show that those who have bought quotas and bought another boat are worse off than those who have not bought. He says it's rather the opposite. So this scare-mongering propaganda, which comes from SV and the Coastal Fishery Team, which are two sides of the same thing, is not right. I don't understand why to have a quota cap, because it will also reduce the ability to get an effective fleet, to get an effective structural quota system. I don't understand why we're going to have it, because of course some limits will be set by the fisherman himself, because there is, after all, a limit to how much one can fish. It's a little bit strange that we're going to have these consequences that the Labour Party absolutely wants. I agree with the representative of Kristiansen that we have enough money. One should be aware that history shows that these are the cases where we have a chance of something that we think is right, which has led the world forward. It has never led the world forward to sit on the back and consider and think through each situation and possibility of 'the worst case'. In those cases, we're really tired and we're afraid to be brave, that we're doing something new. It's quite true, as has been said, that what has been done before is the Labour Party that has been responsible for most of the last 50 years. These are the ones that have led to a fisheries policy that has led to overcapacity. Now we have to be willing to take the chance of getting him down. That is why I think it is quite unlikely that we will have the regionalisation debate that the Labour Party is putting up. So here counties and municipalities have to manage their own small resources. And then Bendiks H. Arnesen gets offended because someone's pulling in the oil here. But the fish is a national resource in the same way as the oil, so it can't be offended because if one compares the oil resource to the fish resource. When Bendiks H. Arnesen frames different organizations, municipalities and municipalities, most of them are north of 62o N. I get it. I asked the question, and Ivar Kristiansen also asked the question, but we did not get any answers. What would the Labour Party say if, in the 1970s and 1980s, we began to talk about a local management of the oil resource that lies out in the Norwegian Sea? I'm not so sure that the Labour Party would have said that there was something we were going to withdraw. But now, all of a sudden, a local management and local ownership needs to be absorbed, and of course, we need to be right of those who have the fish resource. Why shouldn't we be right about those who have the oil resource closest? Why shouldn't we go to the right of those who have ores, mountains, etc. All the way up to itself? Why do we want politicians from North Norway and the West to decide about forest resources that exist in the internal east? That's the national resources we're talking about. That's a national administration we need. We need to see the whole country together. That's what's important. That's why it's important that we've actually been able to open up a trial plan when it comes to the operating system, which we think is a good measure that we support, and that we now get to remove the limitation that was in the message, that this should only apply to Finnmark, so that we might now get this to apply to the whole country. That's why I thought it was going in the right direction. Several grips can and must be taken later, but we are on the right path to the best for both the country and for the fishermen, whether they fish along the coast or far at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e894	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e897	We have heard that the Progress Party does not want quota ceilings to be set. They believe that quota ceilings restrict fishermen. They also see no problems with tradable allowances and would like to solve them even more. Does that mean that the Progress Party wants all sales of allowances to be completely free, with full negotiability and no quota cap? If this is the case, has the Progress Party considered the consequences for our coastal communities – settlement, jobs and our coastal culture – that will be threatened with closure and deportation? All these consequences should have been investigated before any decision was taken on this matter. On this particular field, it's unearthed too little. We don't know the consequences of this, and we don't know what's going on with these societies. Are these values really secondary to the future fisheries and coastal policy of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e903	No, it's the answer to the last question. We are overconfident that our policy will save the coastal settlement, because the fishing boats and the fishing industry will have to lie along the coast. The fishing resources are along the coast or at sea, so that's fine. What we want is an industry that is profitable and that can run Norway and Norwegian fishing industry in the future. And we can do that by solving it a little bit. It's strange that the Workers' Party has not been united. They can't have been, so they'll have a statement and a statement. The times when we took a couple of chances of doing something, and then we started -- it was the Workers' Party expert in their early childhood, but they've obviously forgotten it now. Now they are to be cleared, but it is probably of internal hygiene, because one has not agreed on its own fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e908	I registered that the representative Solholm put the Coastal Fisheries Team and SV in the same box, as opponents of the proposals in the setting, but then I thought Solholm was looking elegantly over that also central trust elected by the Norwegian Fisheries Team, which itself are autolinears, warns against introducing the same arrangements into the coastal fleet. Is this a success? We don't know, because we don't get any evaluations on the table. I would also like to add to the representative Solholm that an alternative strategy for better profitability is actually cutting costs, but of course it is a strategy in which the Progress Party is not particularly interested. I wonder how Fisheries-Noreg, with the Progress Party's fisheries policy and with the proposals in the configuration, will look. How is the Progress Party supposed to prevent the large ones from raising the small ones, as Solholm expressed concerns in its submission? Is he, for example? interested in strengthening participation laws? It would then be a glittering measure to prevent just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e915	It's dangerous to predict, if future especially. I have no concern that our fisheries policy will not lead to a better society overall in Norway than the fisheries policy SV proposes, which is to remove the sea fishing fleet, which is only to be left with coastal fishing fleets, nor does it mean doing so in other ways. It's clear that getting a system of transferable allowances can be done in many ways. You can use the Finnmark model as a starting point, where translation is done within individual length groups. Now there's a bounded one, because you don't get the big ones that have built up today. It's strange that SV hasn't seen the salary and the fleet that you've now received before ringing, which is really profitable. I must just refer to the chairman of Sunnmøre and Romsdal Fiskerlag, Knut-Arne Høyvik, who is an autoline fisherman and a working partyman, and who praises this and thinks that there has not been a failure with unit quota arrangements in the bankline fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e922	I think there is good reason to repeat the question asked by Åsa Elvik, because that question was not answered by the representative of Lodve Solholm. The programme formulations of the Progress Party say that they want to auction off the annual fishing quotas to the highest bidder. The aim is to remove most of the legal regulations that exist in the fisheries sector. In today's setting, it is proposed to remove the regulations introduced by the Government with regard to county bonds, with regard to the interchangeability of the various length groups. There is little left of the regulation in the fisheries sector with the fisheries policy of the Progress Party. When Lodve Solholm started his post by saying that he did not want the paper movers in the Holmenkol lock to manage the quotas, or that it would be the big ones to buy the small ones, I would like to hear how Lodve Solholm with the Advance Party auctioning the allowances and the release within the fishing industry to avoid that happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e929	I think that a system of getting a resource out on the open market, where we can regulate this against having different groups of schemes where a laws of negotiable allowance system within the various groupings, will in a good way prevent that from happening. It is clear that a shell should be like fishes and not like a paper move or something else to be in a translatable quota system. You can also use the resource tax system within this system. I think it's a little strange that the Central Party, which has a desire for the most regulated society, can think of itself in this country, will not be present now when they have seen that the policy has failed, that we have a fisheries policy that is not adapted to the resource, and that there is far too much overcapacity. I just want to tell the central party representative that your former government council supports this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e936	I stand here as the representative of one of the dark men, but it must now be. I now have my membership in order in the Norwegian Fisheries Team. The Møringen – they eat in the south, and they eat in the north, and they never get saturated. We would almost think that those who speak the Morder dialect were in majority in the Norwegian Fisheries Team and Norway's Coastal Fisheries Team because the quotas are there. No, they're not. What is the Progress Party and Lodve Solholm's medicine for us to have a younger guard in the Norwegian fishing industry? Is it auctioning away the allowances for 20-year-olds who do not have money to provide the increasing recruitment? Is that how we're going to get young people into the industry? No, I'm afraid the policies of the Progress Party can lead to the quotas ending in the Holmenkol lock.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e945	But there won't be much fish in Holmenkollen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e948	If Steinar Bastesen had been in the hall and listened to my post, he might have listened to what I said when it was about recruitment. We support that proposal by the Central Party on the recruitment quota system. The entire committee asked the government to consider how we can manage to create a recruitment quota system so that we can get our young people into the fisheries. The other thing I said when it comes to recruitment is that we have to make the boats so profitable that the working conditions and environmental conditions on board the boats become so interesting for a fisherman to be a fisherman. This is not to say that all fishermen will start with their own boat. But one will perhaps start as a crew on board a boat, and then there must be working conditions on board the boat that make one feel that one has a profession that is safe and good, and that one has a good job, while one can also have a family life alongside being a sailor and a fisherman.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e962	I note that there are also divided opinions on this matter in the Progress Party. A prominent member of the Buland Progress Party – not with the Norse dialect – says: ‘We would prefer to stop the structural message before it is adopted. It kills the coast, simple and simple.’ To that end, Mr Solholm said that in two years' time the action programme of the Party in this area might need to be amended. Would the representative, Mr Solholm, support the active fishermen in Buland for such a change?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e972	Calling him a leading member of the Progress Party seemed to me to be exaggerating a little. As far as I know, he has been a member for one year. Before he was a member of the Central Party for 14 years and in the Coastal Party for one year. What I can answer when it comes to 2005 is that, like the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Coastal Party, I believe that we too will review our party programme towards the 2005 election. Then I've invited both the man from Buland and others, fishermen in particular, who drive the industry, to be in the process that we're starting, to be like any other party no, when we're going to review our party program. And then we'll see if there's multiples for that to happen. That process is in progress in the batch, and I'll be in it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e980	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e983	‘We are afraid of an increase in the capitalisation of the industry. We're afraid of a development where increasing capital return requirements can lead to an increase in pressure for larger quotas. With increased demands for return on capital and more efficient boats with more capacity, there is little help in whether fewer boats are involved in fishing.’ There's a lot to say about the size, and a lot of it's wise. This is not soothed from own breasts, but is taken from the business committee's debate on 26 April 2001, on so-called special quota arrangements, where the legal secret of unit quotas in the fleet below 28 metres was given. That's what's going to happen. treat today. The speaker was Jon Lilletun. Today I share Lilletun's concerns. Lilletun was for two years concerned that one had not evaluated the schemes that one already had, and that one could not document the results of the unit quota scheme had become like one wanted. Nor has there been any form of evaluation today, much less impact assessment. The Council of State has quickly made a statement that the best form of impact assessment is to test the scheme in practice. Well, it's probably too difficult for the Ministry of Fisheries to carry out an impact assessment in advance, but an evaluation of the structural measures that a person has already seen. the quota system in the sea fishing fleet and for the conventional fleet over 28 metres, could one do well? After structuring, it should be interesting in this context, but there is no knowledge that the department does not have, as is also confirmed in response to questions from the committee, contrary to what the case-speaker said earlier today – and in which the majority of people are not the least interested. I thought it was good, of course, that, in the course of the bulk treatment, there were formulations for an evaluation of these new structural measures after three years. But I can't understand why you're not looking at your experience until a new set of actions is implemented. Why is it not interesting for the majority to keep to the budget title numbers, which shows that for the conventional fleet over 28 metres, which has had access to the unit quotas for some years now, the debt has increased on average from 20 million. NOK 34 million. Do you really want to delete this item? The equity has deteriorated, from negative 1.8 million. NOK to minus SEK 2.2 million. kr. Why isn't this interesting to put emphasis on? This is the basis for me to characterise the policy to be implemented following a decision here today, as a gigantic fisheries policy experiment. The ministry and the majority assume that the market price of the allowances to be translated is not going to be higher than that the purchasers will have a better business income. I'm not convinced of that. Similarly, the market price of allowances is so high that the gain on an increased allowance basis is consumed by the investment in an allowance. In other words, it might just as well be the person who sells allowances, who realizes the rent and makes it his financial assets, while the buyer gets an increase in financial costs and indebtedness. That's why we fear that the proposed structural quotas will not improve the profitability of the fisheries, but will weaken it. Today we are in a situation of historically low quotas in cod fisheries. In our opinion, the best long-term tool to improve the profitability of the whole fishing industry is to build up resources and manage them on the basis of maximum long-term benefits rather than on the basis of short-term services. In isolation, it is also the most profitable in the short term. In cod fishing, it is most profitable to allow the fish to grow big before he becomes a prisoner. A distortion of the pattern of taxation would therefore constitute an important measure to meet the fisheries policy objectives. This is the basis for us wanting to make better use of the coastal, conventional fleet and not to wreck it, as the bulk of the population suggests today. We have asked questions in wisdom in driving structural adjustment in a situation of low economic activity and particular industrial challenges. One of the Nestors of Norway's Fiskerlag, Thor Wold of Andy Island, has said to the newspaper Fisherman: ‘We cannot have a fleet based on stock levels. This means, in practice, that we are unable to take the quota in good time, which means sea-to-shore transfer." But that's exactly what we're doing. There is little difference between argument and premise in St.meld. No 20 from the position of the Employment Committee all the way back to 1937. The problem is too many fishermen and too many small speeds. The solution is fewer fish and the structure changes in the fleet. Today we're writing out the same medicine that we've been using for 80 years, and he's proven not to work. Why is there still a one-sided focus on the fact that reducing the number of fishing boats will be a proper grip on the challenges facing the industry today? Overcapacity is a global challenge such as: is mirrored by that 90 pst. of the major species are eviscerated. But we're forced to ask questions about what kind of capacity you want in the fishing industry. SV would like a differentiated fleet, unlike anyone else, with both coastal and seagoing speed, which can contribute to settlement and value creation on land. But it's the goal to direct the instrument, it's not the instrument to direct the goal. That is why we want a stronger priority for the coastal fleet. We have therefore put forward proposals to ask the Government to propose how one can phase out the factory jet fleet over a decade, because this fleet contributes much less to land construction and value creation. We also suggest that one be able to open to transfer the allowances from the fleet over 28 meters to the fleet below 28 meters. In addition, if one could start using SND as an instrument to stimulate a conversion based on the knowledge we have about misinvestment in the 1990s, we could really have provided a profitable coastal fleet with a healthy financial situation. We're going across the opposite direction. SV takes note of the fact that the department has got a legal secret to set up a structural fund, but we will oppose the fact that the fund will not be used to buy out capacity in the smallest fleet. So we want the fund to be set up in such a way as to get rid of the unprofitable, old and unsuitable speed, regardless of its length. It is the smallest fleet that best helps to meet the general fisheries policy objectives of profitability, sustainability, jobs and construction, which only become words if the policy goes in the opposite direction. It's the smallest fleet that's already strongly structured. Everyone knows that there is a purchase and sale of fish rights today, and the structural quotas are a legalization of this. I thought the majority have a very unclear attitude to the question when one on the one hand says that the fishing resources should be common to the people and, on the other hand, facilitate their privatisation. Bjørn Herzhou at Norway's fishing school – we get the feeling that he is struck by the characteristics of the darkest of the darkest men – called a spade for a spade. He says in an article: «Transferable quotas do not sound good in Norwegian political debate. The last time they were tried, the minister and the bureaucrat went on a formidable defeat, following a quick reversal in the Workers' Party." [[1992]] Thank you for that! Those were my words, not Hershoug's words. He goes on to say: ‘Since then, individually negotiable quotas have been a non-theme of Norwegian fisheries policy debate. Nevertheless, such schemes are precisely those for which further provision is now being made.» I'm not saying we're introducing freely translatable allowances today. I'm saying we're going a long way on the way to freely transferable quotas. I think that the proposed operating arrangements also contributed to an increase in the privatisation of resources, because one allows the person with allowances to rent, lease or borrow allowances. We are therefore moving towards this testing scheme. I thought it was good that the Storting demanded a quota cap, and if I had our Christian People's Party representative, I would have said thank you for at least getting this. But I think it's eye-catching that the multiples don't go in for the quotas to be time-limited, as they are in the marine fleet. This reinforces, in my opinion, the impression that these quotas are private property. There is also an answer that the Ministry has sent to the Committee that these quotas are going to be a source of income for the future. We're on a proposal to sort out regional quota management. This could serve as a counterweight to the increasing privatisation, and it would be interesting to see the outcome of a clarification of this question. But it's a knowledge that the bulk of the population is not interested in. That's what I think is sad. I just want to make it clear that the proposal is not about regional ownership of the quota. It is about the allocation of regional quota management. That's two completely different things. The size again confirms today that the fish in the sea is the common resource of Norwegian people. That's the administration we want to have a statement of. Finally, I want to be allowed to address the suggestions SV has made, whether alone or in conjunction with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1037	The representative, Åsa Elvik, has drawn up the suggestions she made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1042	It could be a good idea to get a foundation for why SV would not agree that individuals should be allowed to have operating arrangements, so that two boats in a municipality that may have problems can merge their sluts and operate it either on one boat or on two boats etc. I don't think it's very likely that SV won't be able to strengthen the point competence here. Then Åsa Elvik is busy with good analysis, and she thinks she's found good analysis, when she says that the unit quota scheme in the bankline fleet is a failure. But everything indicates that she's not a failure. Those who know the industry well claim that there is no indication of bad times, that those who have now bought quotas are worse off than those who have not bought. After all, the prices of whitefish have made the profitability of that fleet structure as poor as it is. There's another thing that Åsa Elvik should also take with him. It is that over the past five to six years there have been huge investments in new boats that have nothing to do with the unit quota system and that have also made the path in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1051	We are moving towards the operating arrangements for the same reason that we are moving towards the structural quota system. If it were just a matter of exchanging allowances or borrowing allowances, maybe we could have evaluated it, in return for having seen some constraints. But here's what we're talking about, you're going to get to rent allowances. Ergo is the person who hires allowances, like his own allowances, and is allowed to charge for another person's being allowed to benefit from them. This is a long step in the direction of privatisation, and like Bjørn Herzhou, I would say that I do not call it an exchange when I go to Poland and buy red wine, I call it a purchase and a sale. I thought that Solholm's representative should be careful to characterise the unit quota scheme in the marine fleet and the conventional fleet over 28 metres as a success. Here's a very exciting number, and I stick to numbers saying that the debt situation is dramatically worse, the equity situation is dramatically worse, and I'd like to see the ministry come back with an explanation about this. But I think the department doesn't have that kind of knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1058	I have to be allowed to say that I am very disappointed with SV in this matter and about the position you have taken on this issue. I had believed that SV would assume the role of being a driver to achieve a greater balance between the capacity and the available resource that we have to capture. However, the debate here refers in some contexts to some of the new-born men from Tromsø, and in other contexts you refer to the Thor Wold of the Fiskerlage, and then you leave the attitude that it is really okay with a little overcapacity, because we can wait and see. We can wait and see if the capacity can be more consistent with the resource in a few years. But you haven't gotten into SV, which I actually thought you had, that there's a huge struggle about the available resource? It's a cape fishing, it's partly a predatory fishing, which means we don't need any more documentation. It is disappointing to hear that SV is so much unclear on this important issue of Norwegian fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1063	We don't wait and see. We're making quite a series of suggestions, which I did very well in my article. We don't wait and see. But I think the representative Kristiansen should also be able to see the difference in fishing capacity, in the sense that a seat down and count boats and measure cargo volume, and catch needs. That's two completely different things. Therefore, I think we need to find a solution to this problem. We're not going to solve it by rejecting the most profitable fleet. We don't solve it by introducing mechanisms that increase the capital requirement for the rest of the fleet. Otherwise, I would just say, as we have written in a comment in the setting, that one does not solve regulatory problems, such as overregulation and capping, through structuring. It seems that I'm going to use a very dramatic tool to solve problems that you can solve in a much simpler way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1072	We would like to thank and promise, as the representative Elvik said, that quota ceilings are coming, since this proposal came just from the Christian People's Party. We're very happy that we've got a majority for that. When I now listen to the representative Elvik, I hear repeatedly the argument that I have heard several times from the Coastal Fishery Team. Why does SV no longer listen to the largest fishing organisation, Norges Fiskarlag, there 80 pst. by the members are coastal fishermen, a fishing team supporting the Government's proposal, which fully supports the notification, and which has had an impact on many of its views and not only refers to any negative performances of individual trustees?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1079	Now I must honestly admit that I was a little surprised. SV is a political party, and we listen to those who are interested in talking to us. We've had several meetings with Norway's Fiskarlag and listened to their point of view and took part of them for intelligence. In particular, we propose that Group II be exempt from the structural charge, in line with the Fiskerlage’s requirements. But I find that there is a very big disagreement in the Norwegian Fisheries Team. Among other things, a decision was taken at the annual meeting in Nordland Fylkes Fiskarlag, which goes very far in saying that the schemes that were at that time on the horizon were going in the wrong direction in relation to the challenges facing the Norwegian fishing industry, and they had proposals for measures that were much more in line with what we stand for than what the Government has put forward. We stick to the Norwegian Fisheries Team in a very proper and straightforward way. We always talk to them when they want to talk to us, but to say that what is Norway's Fiskarlag's policy is to be our policy, we will never do. And I thought maybe it's a little bit special that the other party in the Big One does it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1084	We do not always agree with SV, but in this case there is a lot we can agree with SV in. That is why we will agree with SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre on this matter. But what I was going to ask about is maybe a little outside the case. SV has voiced the claim that the Barents Sea was empty for cod. This year we have experienced an attack of cod on the coast. It's from the Syltfjord. A coastal boat walked for an hour and a half through an area of cod standing so close that one could not even see the bottom of the echo sound. The same scientists who said that it was free from cod say that now the coastal cod is gone. Does SV still share this view that the Barents Sea is empty for cod, that the coastal cod is gone, and that we have to impose restrictions? Is SV still of that opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1091	It was nice that the Coastal Party was very much in agreement with us in this matter. That's what we're going to take with us. We have never said that the Barents Sea is empty for cod. We have laid out statements from researchers who have said that the cod stock has our hut outside safe biological limits. ICES, the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, made its recommendation in the previous week, saying that the Norwegian Arctic cod is still housed beyond safe biological limits. They say that in order to house the population within safe limits, they recommend a significant reduction in the tax rate below the commodity limit. One recommends a slightly higher quota than what we've had this year. One of the recommendations is to: full stop in the fall of coastal cod. I'm very happy that the spawning stock seems to be taller than one had anticipated, but I still think there's reason to have ice in your stomach and manage the cod stock from the point of view of long-term but maximum yield.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1099	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1102	It is a matter of very great importance that we are dealing with today, not just for the fishing industry or for the population along the coast, but actually for the whole country. Norway has all the prerequisites for becoming a major force in the marine sector. Seafood products harvested in a resource- and environmentally sound manner will have a future competitive advantage in the market. Quality will be one of the most important competitive advantages, whether we are talking about traditional fishing industries or about farming. Climate, clean seas, proximity to resources, housing patterns and a varied fleet structure are our main competitive advantage today. We must take care of these advantages of competition. The main challenges facing industry are market availability throughout the year. It's quality of products. There is flexibility in relation to changes in what the market is asking for. It's profitable, and it's recruitment to the industry. The Centre Party believes that these challenges can best be met by measures other than those proposed by the Government. above all through a targeted focus on research/development with a view to better resource utilisation and higher value creation on the product, not least to make a proper use of the whole fish. We must get a freshest possible raw material on land, which means that we must have a coastal fleet, and we must have a decentralised industry and reception structure in the future. We also believe that local ownership both in industry, in fleets and in farming will be beneficial in relation to the development of the fisheries sector in the future. The government's proposals and the majority's vote go in the opposite direction at many of these points. We get fewer and larger vessels. Over time, we will have fewer and larger reception and industrial facilities. The proposal proposes to privatise the general public. You make a right that someone has gotten to harvest from a natural resource free of charge, into a tradable commodity, where those who sell will be left as winners, while those who feel compelled to buy rights can easily become losers. You're going to be more vulnerable to price falls. You're going to experience an increased debt burden in the industry. It would be enough to look at what has happened in the farming industry in recent years, or in parts of the fleet that have undergone structural changes. The Central Party supports, on the basis of what I have now been through, not the Government's proposal. We do not want the privatisation of the general public. We don't want to privatize the community's resources. However, the centre batch is for instruments to ensure fleet renewal, which can ensure increased profitability and which can help us to obtain live fish management in order to take a step forward in the exploitation and quality of fish. We also want to maintain a regional balance in quota allocation and in terms of quantity within available resources. Nor are we opposed to a reduction in the number of vessels. We've been through that for a long time. We have also not said no to such schemes in the past, but we say no to reducing the number of vessels through the introduction of negotiable allowances. We have supported, both in the previous round and in this round, the proposal to introduce a structural charge. Such a mechanism may allow the mastering of vessels and the extraction of capacity where we wish to have regional quota banks identified which can again dispose of the released allowances. Those allowances may then be managed within each region. This contrasts with a model that makes the allowances negotiable between fishermen. Some have argued strongly to reduce the number of vessels, so that more fish can be fished on each boat, and believe that this is what is needed to increase the profitability of the industry. I have no problem understanding the fishermen, those who are inside the industry, who want to catch larger quantities on their boat. It's natural. Any owner of a business wants to have a greater share of the cake, a greater share of the market or a greater share of the resources available. It was just supposed to be missing, because there is no doubt that harvesting a larger quantity on a boat that you already have will increase profitability. But we've been reducing the number of vessels for a long, long time. That's all we've done. The number of vessels has decreased throughout the history of the fishing industry. At the same time, vessels have increased in size and capacity. In St. Report. No 20 statistics have been provided for the last 10 years showing that the number of vessels has only been reduced by 24 pst over a 10-year period, while capacity has increased by 30 pst. This development will continue with the Government's proposals. We will get more boats up to the 28-metre limit and fewer boats down to the 21-meter limit, i.e. increased capacity and thus increased indebtedness and lower profitability as a result, and not better profitability, as the majority hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1128	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1131	Of course, the Government and Government Parties will have a national administration and control of the fishing resources allocated to Norway. There can be no doubt that this will be the case in the future. I see that the representative of the Zenterpartie said in a comment: ‘The Central Party believes that a model involving a regional quota bank where a region can purchase fishing vessels will address the need for fleet restructuring in a much more controlled and better way than the Government’s proposal.’» That's how you can cancel the law on participants. Is it a primary municipality that will now be allowed to purchase fishing vessels? Is the county council the representative of Enoxsen thinking about, or is it perhaps a regional council that will now have access and opportunity to purchase, control and regulate the coastal fishing fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1145	If the representative of Kristiansen feels uncertain about what is in a regional quota model, it might have been an idea to ask that question during the committee's examination, then there might have been a chance to discuss such a regional administration agreement. Of course, we do not want regional councils, municipalities or county municipalities to start as fishermen and thus cancel the participating forest. On the other hand, we want it to be possible to keep the quotas available through reductions in the number of vessels – for example. through withdrawals, through a conditioning scheme – that they are to be managed regionally and remain within a region. We don't want to get a dilution where quota shares float freely between parts of the country. We believe that the model that has been outlined by several people, including: Nordland county municipality, can be a good model to build on. However, how this should be put into practice, how this should work in practice, is actually a rather complicated issue. That's why we haven't said exactly how this is going to be done in the settings, we're asking for an investigation. We don't want to privatize the fishing rights, as the majority advocates. We want to figure out alternative models before starting a structural change that allows some fishermen to buy other people's allowances. It's starting at the wrong end.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1154	The representative, Enoxsen, said it's the buyers who win and the sellers who lose. We have an example of the ring-note vessel. They have had a unit quota arrangement with purchase and sale now, and there it has been found that the salary has increased. Both those who have bought and those who sell have won. Those who sold or bought cork have also won, because they have reduced the number of boats from 400 to less than 100 and have paid up. If there is a branch within the fishing industry that does not have a problem with the recruitment, it is the purse seine vessel. There it goes, then it's susar. Within the autoline fleet, they claim that it's not the unit quota scheme that's why there's a poorer economy now, and that wages are poorer and indebted, that's because the price of fish right now is very low, especially on white fish. That's why we have those problems in the autoline fleet, not the unit quota system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1166	I think in many ways breeding is the worst example in relation to the effects of making the right negotiable, as one has done. An exclusive right, which you have offered a few, was traded during a period of high prices. The blues saw gold and green forests for this industry, and then the rights were traded for between 30 and 40 million. kr. for one concession. The first problems when the price drop came were those who had bought large with borrowed funds. We also see that in parts of the fishing industry, as I said. Parts of the autoline fleet wear with some of the same. Those boats over 28 meters that have been allowed to participate in the structure system have the same problems. Of course, there are several reasons why the ring-fleet fleet is going well. But I must be allowed to say that a reduction from 400 to 100 vessels, as we have seen within the ring-fleet fleet, would mean a dramatic change in relation to the housing patterns and delivery patterns of the coastal fishing fleet. I don't think Lodve Solholm fully overlooks the consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1173	Former Minister of Fisheries Peter Angelsen said to the Fisherman as late as June 4, 2003: ‘In my opinion, there are no better solutions for vessels over 15 metres in length than those described by the Ministry of Fisheries in the Structural Communication.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1191	I must say that I had been very disappointed if this line had not come. As I said in my main post, I have no problems at all understanding the fishermen who want a little bigger quotas on their boats. I have no difficulty at all in understanding that someone who has invested in a vessel and has a large available capacity, who may fish 100 days a year, believes that by getting fishing 150 days a year, one can improve the profitability of this boat. That's pretty obvious. I'm a business owner myself. The day that I am rid of all competitors and have a monopoly situation or a larger share of the market, my business will of course get better use of its capacity, and profitability will increase. But as elected representatives of the people and as big ones, we also have an overall responsibility that we have to take. For the Central Party, it means total responsibility that we do not want to privatize the general public. It's a fundamental point of view from our side where, unlike the Christian People's Party, we don't want negotiable quotas. We are, in fact, firmly committed to the Christian People's Party, which has always meant: it is a Community resource to be managed by the community and to be distributed among the vessels that exist there. And then we're going to find other ways to reduce the number of boats.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1200	I listened with interest to the post of Odd Roger Enoksen. And what he wasn't into was the same question that I was asking: what about the recruitment, what about the youth in the different fisheries organisations? The former leader of the Central Party, Odd Roger Enoxsen, said nothing about that. And I'm just as concerned about it today, as when I'm in those meetings. Youth is largely absent. What kind of medicine does the Center Party have to get young people back in their organizations?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1206	There's a rather complex question The Bastisen is traveling here. There are many reasons why young people are failing the fishing industry. It is clear that the age of vessels is important. The centre party has therefore always been in favour of good financial instruments to ensure a fleet renewal to ensure attractive, good jobs. But we don't want to do it the way that will be the effect of the Government's proposal in St.meld. No 20. We also have a Document No to deal with today. Eight proposals from Marit Arnstad to give recruiting quotas to young people to secure recruitment in this way. But the most important thing is actually to ensure a district policy that allows young people to live in District Norway, on the coast, in the countryside, and thus can provide a basis for ensuring recruitment also in the coastal fishing fleet. This means that we must secure jobs on land, we must ensure alternative jobs for those who do not want to enter the fishing industry. Because without a whole community where there is room for everyone, there will be no one for the fishing industry either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1213	Much of what the representative, Mr Enoxen, has to say in his statement is easy to agree with. He points to the fact that this is the technological development that is the main reason why we today have a misunderstanding between available resources and capacity. That gives us challenges. The majority here want to address the challenges inwards and implement structural measures. That is what Mr Enoksen is against. I want to ask the Enoxen question this way: Do you think Enoxen that we can stop technological development, or even reverse it? And then I ask, does Enoxen think that there is a connection between such an attitude and the fact that it is difficult to recruit young people to the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1220	I don't think it's possible to stop technological progress, and I don't want it either. But I want a technological development that goes in a different direction than that we're still getting bigger ships with greater energy consumption, bigger and bigger capacity, where a natural quantum fish is to be caught on fewer and fewer vessels, larger and larger vessels with freezers on board, which deliver where they get the best price for a frozen product. I want to move towards vessels that can handle live fish, which can move quickly over short distances, where you can deliver to flexible reception facilities that are able to handle live fish, in order to take care of the whole fish. It is the future of the Norwegian fishing industry, not a fleet structure, where we are going to end up with more and more frozen products transported over longer and longer distances and where there are fewer and fewer facilities on land to handle this fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1225	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1228	The issues we are discussing only today relate to the largest industry in Norway – after oil, but it is the largest industry in employment. That's why the press release is so good today. [[Laughter]] I must respectfully say that we have two journalists present, and that is not bad. So we're discussing the biggest industry in Norway, but what the Stortinget and the press department are concerned about is dogs and kids. You can discuss what's most important, whether it's dogs or kids; we can ask the press release about that. We're actually discussing the biggest industry in employment today, but it's so few that the press department is not interested. That criticism has to be taken away by the press. The size decided in the previous growing period, with the Advance Party and the Workers' Party's support, to send a recommendation to the Ministry of Fisheries to establish a unit quota scheme for boats below 28 metres. So the Ministry of Fisheries has done nothing but what they have been told about from Stortinget. It is a little too late to change meaning today. But we become slaves of debt, whether we like it or not. For what is likely to be adopted today is that there will be transferable allowances, it will be legalised. We have traded allowances and traded boats with allowances in the past. We have traded a resource that we have received partly for free. For my part, I guess I'm the only coastal fisherman in Stortinget, and I'm standing on this pulpit. I got the fish free from society. I could go fishing as much as I wanted all the time and make money on it. But it has to change, it has to be legalized to transfer those quotas. I've formed a subsidiary, so I can sell the shares. But the allowances are to be traded by boat, and it is to be legalised. It is okay enough for those who have positioned themselves and have received several boats, who have to jump from one boat to another in order to thus fish the quotas for the other boats – with the same crew and the same company. It's not right to do it that way. But is that the answer in the message that people are waiting for? I don't think so. They shall lease out the allowances or sell the allowances, in order to have them legalised. The notification further states that there should be no size limit within a municipality. Within the municipality you can sell from a large boat to a small boat. And in the case of a limited liability company, there is no prohibition on selling shares. Shares may be sold by the municipality. That makes it negotiable. If the Right Party and the Advance Party get what they want and repeal – because it has to be removed – everything is suddenly negotiable. And those who have the most money can buy. If you call it something, I'll call it elephant disease, and elephant disease you die off. The industry will die out, whether you like it or not. So to the conditioning system: Yes, you have to be on it, but you have to pay it yourself. We've spent billions structuring into the ring-fleet fleet, but we're not going to do it in the coastal fishing fleet. There you have to pay for it yourself. That's not right! That's far from right! They have tried to privatize the industry in Iceland, for example. Yes, it works – for the big ones. It works for the credit institutions that borrow money. For them, it works well. Then I agree more with the Central Party in terms of regionalisation. We have to get there that we regionalise the fishing quotas, and then you can sit and control and decide, and then you get quota allocated according to how good you are, not how much quota you have. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1241	Now the president thinks it's true that the bastese is addressing the proposal he's made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1244	I am referring here to the proposal that has been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1249	The representative of Bastisen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1252	I would like to begin by commending the Minister of Fisheries for giving this big message a design that allows more than just the very insiders to understand what this is all about. This is important, because more people need to be interested in our fisheries and take part in the discussion on the management of these common resources, both here in the Biggest and in society otherwise. That being said, I have noticed that this message does not contain an explanation of the social consequences of implementing structural measures – this time for coastal fishing fleets. It is a weakness as it results in a lack of process, among other things. towards schemes being introduced. That is not true when several representatives claim that we have downloaded with that kind of consistency. In fact, we haven't, at least not in the last eight to ten years. Time and again, the Stortinget has confirmed that the Norwegian fishing resources belong to the Norwegian people together. Similarly, it has been pointed out that the value of these resources is made available to us by the fishermen taking up the fish from the sea. As long as this right to fish was given to everyone, this was okay, but now the truth is another. Participation in fishing is limited, and it is the law of participants that governs the person who has the right to own fishing boats in general. This should increase the attention to the fact that the conditions of the Participant Act are observed, even when the dispensation ratio in the Act is used. We have a system in which the fishing quota has received a price when it is sold with the vessel. We don't get away from it. Nor do we get away with the fact that this development has taken place over a long time and under changing governments. When the coastal fishing fleet is now also structurally adapted, it is important that the scheme secures the objective of a good distribution of fishing vessels in terms of size and geographical distribution. Coastal fishermen can easily be found along the entire Norwegian coast. Coastal fishing fleets have great advantages when it comes to proximity to the fishing industry. This fleet therefore has the power to supply fresh quality raw material, which should be a competitive advantage for the fishing industry. Here, there's room for innovation and innovation, like in other industries. There should also be a great deal of room for new ways of dealing with catches, including: by taking the fish alive and carrying out further fattening and processing. This should also be seen in a value creation perspective, by the fact that fish come into the market at different times and thus may receive a better price. It is the salary perspective and the pressure on the resources that are the related elements of the message. Structure is one of them, but in this message it is underlined that the whole raw material should be used. That's what I'm going to say. The requirement that the entire raw material be kept, read and accepted for a long time, but there are many elements that need to be put in place to make this a reality. It must work with the market side. It is difficult to get fishermen to take care of this residue without having reasonable assurance that there are customers who want to buy it and at a price that defends their work. Today, a good job is done through the RUBIN Foundation in this field. Several research environments work in this field. Nevertheless, there is too little coordination and cooperation between the various ‘leaks’ involved. It is my hope that the Minister of Fisheries will take a closer look at this and, at all costs, require that research activities and results carried out with the State as a full or partial source of funding be made available to those who will use the results of commercial business. It is also appropriate to require that the various actors in the field cooperate and share the results between themselves. Since the total amount of catches is hardly going to increase monthly in the future, what we do with the raw material that we actually take up from the sea is going to be decisive. Could it be an idea for the Minister for Fisheries that he is considering giving a quota supplement to those fishing boats that have a plan for and in practice take care of the entire raw material, at all conditions in a transitional phase, so that we can get these wheels going? So a little about recruitment: the Storting Message focuses on the need for action to lead to more young people wanting to work in the coastal fishing industry. We all hope so. However, in such a perspective, it is strange that the Minister for Fisheries is so keen to weaken the funding of FINKO, the Centre for the Competence of the Fisheries Industry, by removing State aid to this organisation. FINKO has made a major effort to get young people to choose fish and fisheries-related education and career choices, and has closed down their work. I'm afraid it may seem to be short-sighted to weaken FINKO, and I hope the Minister for Fisheries will reconsider his view of this field. Finally, I must say that it is important that we receive the evaluation ordered by the Storting after the third year of operation. Once we have received that evaluation, Stortinget should be able to discuss the fisheries policy on a broad basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1278	I refer you to the rapporteur's statement on the arrangements recommended by the majority, and of course they will be followed up by the Government. I am very pleased that an overall committee agrees with what is my main argument for the structural measures, namely that we currently have overcapacity in fisheries. A natural consequence should therefore be the recognition of the need to adapt better fishing capacity and processing capacity to the resource base from which we actually have to harvest. I also agree with the Committee on the further examination of Document No. 8:88 on recruitment quotas. Overcapacity has had several very unfortunate consequences. Firstly, it provides a constant pressure and afforestation to harvest as much as possible of what the sea can provide. This in turn leads to the need for expensive and comprehensive control and enforcement mechanisms. Last winter, we were shown under the loot fisheries that overcapacity leads to pressure on agreed regulatory arrangements and sets fishermen up against each other in the fight for day-to-day delivery. Regrettably, overcapacity has the logical consequence that the quotas are getting smaller than they should have been for each vessel, which in turn brings low income for each fisherman and economic loss to society. Because the fishing capacity is not adapted to the resource base, the additional returns that the harvesting of a natural resource can produce are lost. The sum of this results in a more or less constant need for short-term solutions to acute profitability problems, which has in turn resulted in weak recruitment to the coastal fishing fleet and an increasingly older fleet with long-term problems for the whole industry. The government’s proposal in the Structural Communication on ‘Structural measures for coastal fishing fleets’ is a response to these challenges, and I am very pleased with the position of the majority. I take note of the changing majority and the changing support for the individual proposals. In this way I can quote coastal fishermen Halvar Larsen on the ‘Halgeirson’ from Senja, a cod-dependent vessel without lucrative herring and noting rights, as in the Troms Folkeblad on 11 June this year said: ‘If the allowances increase and the Storting also adopts the structural message that will allow us to collect more rights on one boat, it does not look wrong.’ And he adds: ‘I think we’ve been down to the worst’. What he is asking for is for the Storting to change the policy, so he and the other fishermen can both preserve the fishing nets and increase the value creation from the export industry. For me, such statements confirm that voluntary structural quota schemes, voluntary control schemes and voluntary operating schemes are proper medicine and that the saying that ‘the person with the shoe knows best where it prints’ is also valid in the fisheries policy. For this reason, I place greater emphasis on fishermen’s attitudes than many self-employers have had to believe – see if they have left the fishing boats and the fishing vessels for the most time and are hot and dry with good revenues from the media, public jobs or other safe jobs where overcapacity, low cod prices and low cod quotas do not affect the money book, as it does for the fishing population in fishing waters, in which I have chosen to live. The structural quota system, the structural fund and the operational arrangements to which the Storting is currently granting its support will prove to be some of the more important instruments to stop a very unfortunate development we have seen over a long period of time in the fishing industry. If we don't do anything, the negative development will shoot further speed. I therefore invite you to change to keep it now, and don't wait until it gets even worse. We have experience building on. Firstly, low quotas and high fishing capacity have led to the cessation of cod fishing in the past and in the past years, resulting in a high level of leave for fishermen and industrial workers. Secondly, the recruitment of the coastal fleet has shown a frighteningly negative development, and thirdly, the fleet has become dramatically obsolete. It goes without saying that it's hard to renew the fleet, because there's not enough profitability. But at the same time, innovation is essential, because in the future we will have to take care of 100 pst. of the fish as a quality product — as several have pointed out, inter alia: the last speech. Quality work starts on board and coastal fishing fleets have unique prerequisites for the provision of high-quality raw material. It is a advantage that will be taken care of when the Stortinget takes its decisions today. At the same time, today's fleet has problems in providing young people with safe jobs and a good working environment. Of course, they require all-year jobs and high enough income to meet their obligations in a start-up phase with family, house and home. The Government's willingness to change the fisheries policy in this area must also be seen in the context of the fact that, without such measures, it is more difficult to maintain Norway's second largest export industry and the very bearer of coastal settlement patterns — if young people choose to leave fishing and travel to the city. There are such trends to counteract the structural measures for coastal fishing fleets. The worst thing we can do is we can't do anything. There is a excruciating need to change the policy of maintaining the main features of the coastal settlement. Therefore, I warn against following those who will postpone the solutions, in a kind of belief that the problems will solve themselves if we push them in front of us. I agree with former fisheries minister Peter Angelsen who said in the Fisherman on 4 June this year: ‘The question is briefly and clearly how to involve coastal fishermen, as part of our competitive fishing industry, in the economic and social development of our society.’ I have also recorded that several former state councils and state secretaries in the Ministry of Fisheries, from changing workers' party and centre governments, now provide their support for the measures the majority of the population will take today. In this way, I have seen an increasing upsurge in the industry on the structural measures, thanks to the extensive and broad public debate we launched when we started this work. The aim of the proposals is to provide the coastal fishing fleet with framework conditions which allow each boat owner to choose suitable adaptation arrangements for each individual and which, overall, provide better capacity utilisation. When I joined the Ministry of Fisheries in the autumn of 2001, I promised to work for increased profitability throughout the food chain and to increase the freedom of fishermen in their profession. That is what they get through the decision today. One main point is that the measures are voluntary. No one shall be forced out of the industry. The arrangements must therefore be so favourable that many will take advantage of them in order to achieve the necessary structural impact. Both the coastal fishing fleet and the sea fishing fleet count today for many vessels in relation to the resources, as is acknowledged by an overall committee. The different groups in the sea fishing fleet have their structural arrangements, and many groups have come a long way in reducing and increasing profitability. The coastal fishing fleet is now given such an opportunity. In other words, the objective of structural measures is to facilitate a voluntary reduction in the number of vessels. We do so in such a way that the objective of a varied fleet – composed of both large and small vessels – is met. We also pursue the objective of geographical diversification based on regional policy considerations. And I'd like to make it clear that the option we're choosing now was a structural adjustment directed by fishermen who had to give up for economic reasons. This option would not allow either to ensure a differentiated fleet or to achieve the geographical distribution objective. Bankruptcy is a poor tool for structural adjustment in a district policy perspective. Therefore, improved profitability and thus increased financial capacity for survival and renewal are necessary. It is important that the practitioners have sufficient operational basis and thus believe in the future. This cannot be based solely on larger future total quotas for fisheries as a whole. In fact, our objective is stable, high total quotas, but we can hardly be sure that nature will have ups and downs. We therefore need to put in place schemes that can work over time and be available when individuals see it economically appropriate to use the schemes. That's what we're now doing for those who are going to bet on the future. No group in the fishing fleet can avoid this structural adjustment. And no one can demand an increase in quota shares for themselves and for their group when other groups have adapted their structure to the shares they have been allocated. As I said, different groups in the sea fishing fleet have already come a long way in their structural adjustment, and the measures proposed here should facilitate the same in the coastal fishing fleet. For coastal fishing fleets, the situation today is that everyone, regardless of the level of ambition of the individual, is given the same conditions. The effect of this has been a steady deterioration for everyone. There is no reason to believe otherwise than that the average age of the coastal fishing fleet will continue to increase if nothing is done. An increasingly older coastal fishing fleet will not be able to meet the requirements of the future and will be the competitive advantage for Fisheries Norway as it should be. It's not doing something that's the most dramatic option. I'm amazed that some of the parties here are taking the order to expose the stick and make it bigger. That's why I've invited you to change to preserve. In other words, a voluntary reduction in the number of vessels in the different regulatory groups is necessary to facilitate a robust coastal fishing fleet in the future. At the same time, we are maintaining the quota distribution between sea and coast and internally within the coastal fishing group, as we stated when the Government introduced the so-called Finnmark model to ensure the minimum ships stable and predictable framework conditions. Such a coastal fishing fleet, together with a adapted fishing industry, can provide a good enough economy to ensure viable local communities. I think it may be important to listen to the reality that fishermen feel that they are struggling with: poor structuring due to poor economy. It might be right to quote a coastal fisherman, Trond Berntsen, as the Fisherman said on February 24, this year: ‘We stood in the choice between stepping down or betting on. When the plans for a new structure in the coastal fleet arrived, we decided to continue our efforts." And he added: ‘Fishing prices do not take the night sleep away from us. It will be worse if the structural plan is not implemented.’ I think that's what we're going to remember, and it's in stark contrast to what some of the people who are characterized as dark people have made sense, that everything gets worse if you do something. The problem is that if you don't do anything, the coastal fishermen will be the big losers. I'm amazed that so many people turn to speakers to exacerbate the pain.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1363	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1366	I hear what the Council of State says, and I refer to the fact that in the Business Committee we agree that fishing resources are a national common resource. But we also record that more and more people along the coast believe that this common resource is now being converted into private property for the few. Some say it is so strong that the coastal population thus falls, and local communities will be destroyed. My questions will then be: Is this concern from small and larger coastal communities unjustified? Are the reactions too strong, or do the Government's analyses show that the fear is justified, but that the change has to be implemented for purely economic and market reasons? Does the Council of State mean that we just have to face up to the fact that many coastal communities do not have the right of life in the future, and that people in such areas are just going to start preparing for a deportation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1371	Interestingly, the representative Arnesen so strongly stresses that the fish is a national resource. But in the next round he doesn't take the consequences, so now I think it's time that the representative Arnesen decides whether this is a national resource, which will then be managed by a national regime, or whether he wants anything else. You can't want both of them. So Arnesen's representative makes himself a spokesman for this too. Then I think it's important to read the message. It will be seen that both the operating system, the structural quota system and the control system have two important considerations. One is that the geographical bond that is there today is not being rocked. The second is that when this government implemented the so-called Finnmark model, we secured as the first government and I as the first government council that the smallest boats also got predictability in the allocation of allowances. We maintain that, so that it is not possible to transfer allowances from small to large boats or the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1378	I agree with the Council of State that the message is a step in the right direction in the Norwegian fisheries policy to ensure profitability, recruitment and, not least, bustling. In this way, it must be a small defeat for the Council of State to feel that the party of government in the Committee is in favour of a quota ceiling, which the Council of State did not notify. I'll find out. I would still like to see the right if there is a little hope for these fleets that have boats above and below 21 meters. If there were to be an application for a derogation at the Council of State table on the autumn part to merge, within one and the same fleet, the quota for a boat of 18.5 metres and one of 25 metres, in order to gather the quotas on the one boat, is it possible that a person may be exempted from the rigid rule contained in the message?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1383	I am pleased and not surprised that the Progress Party is in the forefront of fisheries policy. For what we are now presenting and which is being adopted in the Grand Duchy is, as has been said, a step in the right direction. It is an important step in ensuring the settlement and diversity of the Norwegian fishing industry. The introduction of an allowance cap of three allowances per year. ship, I don't have any problems with dealing with us as the State Council and the Government. It would be limited to how many allowances it was interesting to buy on each vessel, because the practical implementation of the fishing does not allow an unlimited number to be collected. Secondly, many of those who now want to structure themselves are people who own two and three boats, and who now want to use the opportunity to take out ships to reduce costs and thus avoid the crew going from two to three boats to take the same quota that they can now take on one ship. In this way, this is an important step forward. Then, in the handling and follow-up of Stortinget's decision, I will strictly stick to the decision that has been made. I am not going to deal with thoughtful applications that are not on my table. I'm going to deal with the Storting's decision in a proper way, and not go beyond the constraints put there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1392	I found it disappointing that the Council of State follows up the rhetoric of the representative Kristiansen. I would have expected better from the council if I didn't expect better from Kristiansen. I think we're all a few people who want to focus on what the nutritionists say, but I think it's alarming that the government's policy per year. This definition is to coincide with national decisions taken by the Norwegian Fisheries Team, and one of the masculinity considerations will not take on board the fact that there is a significant disadvantage in the Norwegian Fisheries Team as well. That's what I thought was very special. Former Fisheries Minister Peter Angelsen said in a debate in the Odelstinget in 1999, in a comment on the Progress Party's proposal to investigate the resource tax: ‘The interest rate charge is best suited to a reality in which the privatisation of the common resources has been carried out and where, therefore, it is necessary to include in the single fund a share of the basic interest rate for distribution.’ Is the fact that the Council of State is now sending out to consultation proposals to address resource interest rates, that the resource has been privatised in practice, and that one needs to withdraw part of it into the common fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1404	I am pleased that there is a broad consensus that we should now assess resource interest rates. Then we get when the investigation is available, present it to the Stortinget and get a proper debate on how to deal with this in the future. But at least this is a way of ensuring that society gets its fair share of the value creation that is going on. The representative Elvik said she had expected more from the council. To that it's saying that it gets to stand its test. I had not expected anything else from the representative Elvik, and then you get to interpret what you want, not least with the background of some of the statements that have come. A large point has been made that merging two vessels would increase the level of indebtedness in the industry. It's an error ending. And when, to those degrees, the bankline fleet is used as an example of the increase in the debt burden, you have respectfully failed to report the calculations, because in that group it has actually been reduced from 1.8 billion to 2 billion in total.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1411	It's interesting to record what the Minister of Fisheries says about the Christian People's Party's victory with regard to quota ceilings, that it is of no practical importance, and that there is therefore no reason to oppose it. It is also interesting to note that the Minister for Fisheries says that bankruptcy is a poor instrument in relation to the fleet. Then it's strange that the Council of State will let that happen in the industry. But then a little bit to this with the purchase and sale of allowances. As I have said repeatedly in my previous posts, the number of vessels has decreased by 24 pst. within 10 years. So what the Minister for Fisheries wants to do has happened every day in the history of the fishing industry. There have been fewer vessels, fewer fishermen, and thus more quotas have become available on each boat. But there's a significant difference between what's happened before, and what you're adding up to. Who's going to sell? It's those who are approaching the retirement life, and it's the newly established ones who have such a high debt that nervous bank managers force sales. Those who want to buy are those who have 10-15 years left until they become pensioners and who have capital to buy. Is it the young newly established Minister for Fisheries who wants to leave the industry with coercion from their banking relations?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1418	It should really be unnecessary to ask if it is the youth I want out of the fishing industry, when I have so strongly stressed that precisely by increasing profitability, we can provide the basis for recruitment to grow. Thus, fishing-dependent Finnmark now has the highest average age of fishermen. Recruitment to the coastal fleet fails dramatically, while one is in line to be on the ring-fleet, which has structured itself. It tells us that this is useful. The center party medicine is that everyone should earn the same amount of money. Because it's not like we're preventing people from buying a single vessel with a single quota, it'll be just as negotiable under the authorisation schemes that are. But what's wrong with one who owns two boats being allowed to merge these into one quota on one boat and thereby reduce the cost? It doesn't increase the leverage. I trust that the fishermen – but I understand that neither the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, nor the SV have it – are able to invest in a way that allows them to manage this and operate their loans. That's where I trust the fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1425	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. The reason for this communication is that coastal fishing will be more profitable. Is it to increase the profitability of the introduction of a resource tax that increases the profitability of the payment of allowances? I would like an answer to that question. So that's another thing. The right goes in to privatize the fish's general view. Will they also go in to privatise other natural resources, such as the sea, the coast, the forest, the water, the oil and the gas?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1434	A keyword is profitability, or lack of profitability in this industry. I am pleased that a joint committee acknowledges that this is overcapacity. So the question is, what do we do with that? We from the Government and the majority in this Chamber come with measures. But I'm recording that others are saying, no, let's push it in front of us, it's so hard, it's so problematic. In previous debates, the Labour Party made it clear to me: now we must not structure, because now it is so difficult. Well, we have to make some adjustments now, and the representative of the Coastal Party should also be willing to do so. So it is that we have started a work on collecting a resource tax. It has not been decided to implement it. We are going to investigate it, and as far as I am concerned, all parties agree that it is an important investigation so that we can conclude. In fact, it may help to counteract the tendency of some to obtain large profits from the purchase and sale of vessels with rights. The fish is a national resource and shall be managed as a national resource. That's the government's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1442	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1445	It is a serious cross-section of thought that, on the one hand, we have unique opportunities for developing activity along the coast, not least in the fishing industry, while on the other hand we see that parts of the coast are the areas with the greatest decline in the population. This means that the Workers' Party believes that there is a need to develop a new and comprehensive coastal policy. We want the coast to be a driving force for national value creation, and through it we will also facilitate a stable settlement in coastal areas. It is also important to facilitate the development of the fishing industry, first of all through strategic development. Here, among other things, we must: Ask the basic question how it is possible that we have a fishing industry where we fish in Norway, freeze it, send it to China and get it processed, and then it is sent back to Europe. We need to have a strategic commitment where we take advantage of the advantages that we have for development in this industry. Secondly, the fishing industry must contribute to coastal development. Fishing resources are a social resource that needs to be managed for the benefit of coastal settlement and industrial development. It is a strength that the industry has a structure in which actors vary in size and that they each form the basis for viable communities. There is also a need for significant renewal and upgrade of the fishing fleet. It is necessary to provide for a modern and varied fleet to ensure full-year access for industry to high-quality fresh raw materials. But there is no objective in itself to reduce the number of fishing vessels. However, in some cases it may be an objective to reduce overcapacity so as to avoid increased pressure on resources and improve fleet profitability. However, the working party is against freely tradable quotas in the fishing fleet. We therefore believe that no arrangements should be put in place to give a single operator a fixed share of the quota set at all times. There is something fundamentally different than having the right to participate in closed fisheries, and it suggests that permanent structural quotas should not be introduced by, for example: may retain a share of the allowance supplement in a unit allowance scheme beyond the prescribed period. The working party has not said that we are against structural measures for the fishing fleet. In many cases, the Workers' Party has contributed to the implementation of structural measures. But first of all, we need to know what the impact is of the measures taken. The Labour Party has therefore criticised the fact that the social consequences of implementing the measures proposed today have not been adequately addressed. Secondly, the Labour Party considers that there is a need to explore alternative ways of doing so, and has therefore proposed the development of a regional model for fisheries resource management, including regional quota funds/quota banks — in other words regional structural schemes that ensure stability in relation to the different parts of the country. Unfortunately, there is no majority in favour of carrying out these investigations before the Stortinget is due to take its decision today. For this reason, the Workers' Party has also included in its current position a subsidiary assessment of the proposals submitted by the Government. Governments stress the importance of action. Yeah, it could be important. However, if you do wrong, the adverse effects of the decision may be greater than if you had not acted, but took the time to consider what to do before acting. The Labour Party believes that what the Government has proposed is, in principle, something quite different from what we have so far seen in the Norwegian fishing industry. Therefore, it is also strongly underlined from the Workers' Party's side that there must be a minimum of changes to the Government's arrangements. The government's proposals are, in principle, different by the fact that it does not limit the number that can be merged and, secondly, that it does not limit in time. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that it is necessary to set a quota ceiling on three vessels, such as to become a majority today, but the Workers' Party also believes that a limit should be set in time. And it's alarming that batches that in this room have been intensively opposed to introducing unit quota schemes, referring to the effects of it, are actually in favour of schemes that bring us far beyond that. [[President clubs]] Today's proposals and the decisions taken today,
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1460	It was a long ending. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1465	While I was listening to the last speech, I could not help thinking about the following: If the investigations that were requested and what you wanted to postpone had been started during the time that this person was the Fisheries Council, perhaps action had now been done. But fortunately, the Storting does it anyway. The debate on the structural measures for coastal fishing fleets has engaged the whole coast and has resulted in many media redundancies. I would say that in many ways there has been a strange debate, and some have, through disinformation, been able to create a completely erroneous picture of the consequences of such a system. In particular, those who are most opposed to this are not the ones to which the arrangements relate, but to a large extent persons outside the fisheries sector. Some local politicians, big-time politicians and well-known academics have for a long time predicted both the raging of fisheries, unemployed fishermen and deserted coastal communities as a result of the system of structural measures in the coastal fleet. I'm sure this won't be the result. A viable coastal community presupposes that people can live off their jobs and create an economic surplus and security for themselves and their families. The government's proposal for structural measures for coastal fleets has this as a starting point. Today we know that many fishermen own more boats to have enough to fish on. This entails considerable costs both for administration and for maintenance. They fish up the quota for a boat, in order later to proceed to the next boat. Such a situation requires action, and the long-term measures of fishermen are being adopted by the Stortinge today. Unfortunately, not all parties want to help fishermen in this situation. The working party travels around the country and the beach and points out the problems in the fisheries. Only by itself is a solid criticism of their own fisheries policy, which they have formulated over 60 years. The paradox is that it is the Workers' Party that does not want action now, but wants to postpone it. I had not dared to see concurred fishermen in my eyes if I had not wanted to remedy the situation, when the situation is there. The problem is that a number of retired top politicians in the Workers' Party have just wanted to welcome the Government's proposal. Some environments want to reject the scheme, with the argument that instead you have to take rights from the trawls. This will be the last nail in the chest of a coastal fishing industry in crisis. Thousands of people in the outermost islands and islands have their income just through an industry that also relies on raw materials from a seagoing fleet. There is no redistribution of quotas between ship groups, and we know that the coastal fleet represents 71 pst. of cod caught by the Norwegian total quota. Therefore, it is good that the Stortinge adopts the Government's proposal for structural measures, thus ensuring the coastal fleet continues to be profitable and living communities all over the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1480	At the same time as we discuss St.meld. No 20, we also have to deal with Document No. 8:88, about recruitment quotas. There is an overall concern in the committee, I think, because we see the problem of recruitment to the industry. We agree that there is a misunderstanding between capacity and resources. Today's debate reveals that we disagree on the solutions, at least we disagree on how to implement the solutions, but we agree that we need to look at the recruitment problem that we have. We have to try to reconcile the fact that we have a coastal culture that through generations has been characterised by diversity, that young people today want modern jobs, they want jobs that provide a stable income. It is the starting point when an overall committee now asks for a review of any recruitment schemes for young people. There are four points we point to in the committee's comment, and we ask that it be taken into account in the review. Firstly, we want to have an assessment of the impact of past schemes that have been tried and implemented. We want to have an assessment of the impact in relation to the rules of participation and regulation. We want to assess the appropriateness of a time limit and the time limit. And we want to get an assessment of whether it's appropriate to have an upper age limit of 25 years. What we hope to get out of this investigation is that we can reverse the negative development that we see, by increasing the age of the fishermen, the practitioners. I trust that this can be reversed, because the coastal culture in Norway is characterized by adaptability — it is characterised by diversity and adaptability.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1491	I will not repeat the argument from an interesting and important debate, but I would like to comment on the touching concern of the Christian People's Party which has again been shown from the opposition. I think it's something special when the Workers' Party refers to statements from Skjervøy, a municipality where the Christian People's Party has a pure majority. If Skjervøy has now become an ideal municipality for the Workers' Party, we are proud of it. In Skjervøy, they can just show that because they have made a conversion of the coastal fleet, most of it works in the municipality. We are proud of our rapporteur. SV is afraid and concerned about the Christian People's Party. I would say, who is not concerned about the future of the fishing industry. But in this case it is in our opinion now to get over the anxiety and trade. I recall the strong pressure on increased quotas that came from the fishermen in March when the cod fish was stopped. According to the Christian People's Party, that should have worried EN more. There we have a common concern that I think we can share in solving what has been presented today. Odd Roger Enoksen also had a greeting to the Christian People's Party. The representative Odd Roger Enoksen said: We stand firm on the Christian People's Party always meant. Yeah, I'm not so sure about that now. We stood together in the innermost part. O. No 55 for 1998-99, where we asked the Government to sort out the unit quota system we currently have for treatment. That's one side of it. The other side of it is that we had a Minister of Fisheries in the Central Government who in Friday's Fischeriblad comes with a strong call to all of us to just go in for what's on the table today. He says, «A postponement may be described by the saying; «While the grass grows, the cow dies». Therefore, it is hoped that those who will make a decision have ice in their stomachs and are shaved enough to stand on the signals that were given several years ago. Political predictability is important for those who are to invest in the future and are given the opportunity to create safe jobs.» It is a strong call from a common fisheries minister to both the Christian People's Party and the Central Party. Finally, I would just like to say briefly: with regard to the industry on land, the huge interest in what is happening today is precisely what is happening. If we get a coastal fleet with larger quotas, industrialists say they're interested in concluding agreements with the coastal fleet to get full-year deliveries, and they can offer better prices. That is what the Christian People's Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1507	Some brief comments on questions addressed to me. First, of course, I will follow up the decisions that are made in both of the two cases that we are now dealing with. These measures, if used — for which voluntary action is envisaged — are intended to provide a stronger and more profitable fleet. The aim is to reverse the trend towards shorter and shorter seasons with subsequent problems for both the fishing industry and fishermen. Cape fishing provides poorer quality and less income, and therefore now the coastal fleet needs measures to increase profitability and renewal, improve the working environment and improve the safety of fishermen at sea, and make it possible for young people to choose the fishing profession. The head of the Troms Fiskarfylking said just before the weekend in the Fiskarfladet: ‘With the new structure, people have a chance to climb a boat instead of a tree. But we have now basically lost both boat and people all the time in recent years, so this hardly leads to any dramatic change." That is why Mr Schjött-Pedersen's words will be as if he thinks it is right that the Minister for Fisheries has the power to act, but he should rather not act. After all, it is a result of the misguided policy that we have the results that we now see in the coastal fleet. Therefore, it is necessary to change it when the backbone of the coastal fleet is over 34 years old, when the average age of fishermen in Finnmark is 46 years old, when the recruitment has failed for the last 14 years. 14 years ago, one in three fishermen was under 30 years of age. Now one in five fishermen are under 30 years of age. Then, with respect to reporting, we have to do something. So some comments about what has been said. There will be no less fish for the coastal fleet in the arrangements being put in place here, as you could get the impression in the speeches by the representative Arnessen. The distribution between coastal fishing and sea fishing is fixed, the Finnmark model is fixed and the geographical ties are fixed. Nor is it correct for Schjøtt-Pedersen and others to point out that the notification does not deal with employment and rural consequences. I refer to the cap. 11th@item: inlistbox But now it is such that these schemes are voluntary, and therefore it is also impossible to carry out a complete impact assessment. It would have been possible only if there had been coercive measures. Then there are several speakers, including: Bendiks H. Arnesen, which gives the impression that if you just let go of introducing these voluntary schemes, the flight from the fishing industry will stop. But it's like the coast and the communities along the coast have experienced a continuous decline in the number of fishermen and the number of vessels from 1949, and so it's the Workers' Party that's been responsible for the longest time. That's why we have to do something different than what we've done now. Then it's used as an example that the bankline fleet is indebted. The actual ratio is such that the number of ships in the bankline fleet has fallen from 98 to 53, the average debt has risen from 20 million. NOK 34 million. NOK, but the sum of liabilities in this fleet has fallen by DKK 1,8 to 2 billion. This shows that total debt can also be reduced in the coastal fleet. If I may, President, just one last response to the Tveiten representative to grant a grant to those who process the whole fish. [[The President clubs.]] It's an interesting thought, we're going to evaluate it, but we're not going to get away from anyone else. But I'm taking the proposal with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1529	The president wants to remind us of speaking time. We have a long, long day ahead of us. No more people have asked for the floor to speak on the matter. 1 and 2. At the request of the family, culture and the Administrative Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are processed together. [[Footing, see page 3280]] - It's a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1559	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is to be seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1570	As rapporteur for the examination of St.meld. No 39 for 2001-2002 I am pleased that the consensus within the Committee has been so great. I would also like to start by congratulating ourselves on a historic nursery settlement that will mean a lot to children's growing-up conditions. We'll say more about later today. The report on children and young people's ageing and living conditions in Norway is an important communication, addressing the challenges of thinking around the overall growth conditions of children and young people and developing a comprehensive policy in this important area. It is good that we have now incorporated the Children's Convention into Norwegian law, and that we have dealt with this message at the same time, so that we have seen children's rights and this message in a context. Through the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, Norway has undertaken to promote the rights of children in a number of areas, and I assume that the Ministry will come back with proposals for legislative changes necessary to ensure the rights of children in the various areas covered by this Communication. Most children and young people in Norway live under safe and good economic conditions, but prosperity does not mean that they are well-being. Caring failure, poverty, violence, bullying, drug use, sexual abuse, difficulties in reaching school and difficulties in entering the labour market are part of the reality of a good number of children in Norway. We have had a negative trend in child protection, where the number of children in need of intervention is strongly increasing. The number of children with out-of-home measures has increased dramatically in recent years. Resources need to be deployed and measures taken to meet these developments. There is too little research into which child protection measures are targeted. More attention needs to be paid to research into different measures for children and young people, so that the large resources we use in child protection are good enough and targeted. The Communication emphasises that the objective is to contribute to a child and youth policy that creates a safe, meaningful and evolving everyday life for more people. To ensure this, cooperation and interaction between parents, public authorities and non-governmental organisations need to be further developed. Changes in living conditions, more lifelong breaks, increased commercialisation, sexualisation, advertising press, slimming, major challenges in the field of drugs, more serious violence, a new communication reality and a stronger level of leisure organisation make new demands on parents, the public and the voluntary sector. Education is more important than ever. The knowledge nation of Norway is important for individuals and as a driver of social development. Ensuring equal rights and equal opportunities for children and young people is a key challenge. Family security is a prerequisite for good personal development, and we agree with the Government that we must focus on the child's best and the child's right in the life debate. The right of the child to be associated with the parents under Article 9 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the parental responsibility under Article 18 must be an essential basis for the development of family policy. Children and young people must have real influence, and this must be legalised. Article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child refers to the right of the child to express his/her opinion and to attach weight to the opinions of the child. It is important that children are heard in matters relating to them, so that they can participate in designing policies for children and young people and influence their own daily lives both at home, in kindergarten and at school. Purchasing press and advertising affect the attitudes and behaviour of children. There is an increasing tendency to sexualize children and the everyday lives of young people. Research on the sexualisation of children and young people and how the media affects children and young people must be given priority in order to put in place the right measures to protect children and young people from harmful influences. Increased globalisation is a challenge — and provides children and young people with increased opportunities to achieve their goals — and this needs to be addressed through increased international cooperation. An active public policy towards children and young people at all levels must reflect a holistic approach and be based on the needs of individuals and groups. A challenge for future policies is to ensure comprehensive and clear priorities in services and services. At all levels of administration, not least at ministerial level, an assessment must be made as to whether the interests of children and young people, their right to be heard and their opinions are given weight and care. Equally with the gender equality accounts of the Equality Act, a child and young people’s accounts should be made by general government. The government will strengthen and further develop cooperation at state level and in municipalities and counties. There needs to be more committed cooperation between different levels of government, and ministries need to cooperate much more than at present, to ensure that government authorities give clear and unambiguous signals to municipalities and counties. Influence must be ensured through the law, and the economy of municipalities must be strengthened in areas that protect children and young people. Children and young people’s ideas, thoughts and proposals shall be taken into account in planning, policy-making and day-to-day work at different venues. The Ministry of the Family has a special responsibility to be a driver and to follow up on the whole of further work and to strengthen cross-ministerial cooperation. The Labour Party and SV believe that a cross-ministerial group responsible for coordinating all policies relating to children and young people should be set up. The dialogue with the child and youth communities needs to be strengthened and become more committed to the Government — and governments in the future, of course. A Youth Council should be set up which is involved in the ongoing work. Representatives of this Council should be members of this Interministerial Group. The government has established a youth panel and various groups. We believe that it is more appropriate to establish a cross-ministerial body that looks at child and youth policy in an overall perspective. SV proposes that the Government should come back with a proposal for a child and child-rearing law. We believe that this is a good tool for achieving the whole policy we want for children and young people. Poverty in a country as rich as Norway is unacceptable. Children living under poverty often have poor growing-up conditions, and measures need to be taken to eliminate poverty in Norway. The message’s recipe for preventing poverty is the work relationship of parents. It is difficult to implement when unemployment is increasing sharply. It is with concern that we record that sole caregivers are in the process of getting a lower standard of living. The government needs to come back with concrete and targeted measures to tackle poverty among children and young people. Unfortunately, the proposal from the Labour Party, the SV and the Centre to come back with comprehensive and concrete proposals against poverty in families with children does not give us a majority for today. There are many children who are sexually assaulted in Norway, and we refer to the proposal adopted in connection with the Innst. S. No 121 for 2002-2003, asking for an investigation into the situation of sexually abused children in Norway and their families. Such monitoring is absolutely necessary, because children are often overlooked for sexual abuse, and they often do not receive adequate help. We're failing these kids. I have been working with assault problems as a midwife for many years, and it has puzzled me how many people have not been seen or taken seriously, when they have sent out signals in many ways that something is seriously wrong. Here's the big darkness. Efforts to address the negative development of drug use need to be stepped up, and the Ministry needs to follow up and implement the decision on the statutory right to treatment for drug use and the psychiatry for children and young people with child protection measures adopted in the Stortinget in the context of the treatment of St. report. No 40 for 2001-2002. Efforts to prevent and combat problem behaviour related to violence, racism, discrimination and crime in the child and youth communities need to be stepped up and targeted. More funding needs to be used for research and for various projects, so that prevention can have a demonstrable impact. The most important part of the school’s mandate is to give all children and young people the opportunity to realise their abilities and talents. At the same time, this is the school’s main distribution policy task. The best response to poverty and marginalisation in adulthood is good basic education for all. The Committee supports the Government's view that policies aimed at children and young people have the same objectives and quality as other cultural and media policies for the population. Studies may indicate that the best way to ensure the security of the cultural policy effort directed at children and young people is by adding responsibility to the part of the municipal sector responsible for the cultural field. The cultural school system will be a cultural boost for children and young people. We look seriously at the situation of young people's opportunities in the labour and housing markets. The fact that young people are not at work is a waste of one of our most important resources. SV joins the measures in the communication, but believes that one should have a legal right to housing and that families with children should not be accommodated. We believe that overnight accommodation at the shelter cannot meet the housing requirements, as laid down in human rights. I don't have much time left. I would then like to address the proposals from SV and the proposals we are promoting together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. I will re-apply proposal No. 6 to a transmission proposal, and I do not promote proposal No. 4, as it is taken care of in the Public Health Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1627	The representative of May Hansen has drawn up the proposals she made well for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1630	The size of the population is currently addressing a very important report on the ageing and living conditions of children and young people in Norway. First of all, we can conclude that children in Norway are generally well off, and that Norway is a good country to grow up in — for most. Traditional poverty is virtually eradicated. But even though most children and young people live in safe and good economic conditions, there is much left for everyone to do well. Wealth is not equally distributed, and there are still children and young people living in families with so limited financial resources that they can be characterised as poor. It is not binding enough on measures to combat poverty and poverty development and on measures to prevent the unfortunate development of children and young people. Children shall be able to participate in leisure activities, school leisure and school-based activities regardless of their parents’ finances. Many people feel that they are not at school, and in periods of increasing unemployment, young people without experience from work can be brought into a difficult life situation and social problems. Today there are 16 000 unemployed under the age of 24. Therefore, the Labour Party wishes to provide a youth guarantee to ensure employment or education for young people under 25. We cannot decide here in the UK that children and young people in Norway should feel good. We can only adopt a child and youth policy that can help to create a safe, meaningful and developing everyday life for more people. It is important to ensure good interaction between parents, kindergartens, SFOs — school leisure schemes — schools and non-governmental organisations. Children and young people are individuals who deserve respect and influence over their own lives. All are different and should have development opportunities based on their own value and abilities, but each individual lives in interaction with others. Children do not choose their parents, and the Labour Party believes that kindergartens, school leave and public school are the security that all children need. It is not the parents' wallet to decide which offers children should receive. The family plays an important role in building security, identity and value, but friends also play a central role in the lives of children and young people. In the circle of friends, there is learning and testing that is not possible with adults. Voluntary children’s and youth organisations, youth clubs and other meeting places play a central role in developing social awareness and sense of responsibility. We don't want our children to end up in negative youth environments. Therefore, it is important to provide municipalities with an economic opportunity to create the safe meeting places that can strengthen positive identity development, and give them the opportunity to participate and influence. The strenuous local economy makes it difficult for municipal politicians to give priority to prevention of child labour and youth work. Youth clubs and outreach contacts are being closed down. I am therefore pleased that a majority in the United Kingdom has ensured that sport and culture are now getting more money to strengthen the possibility of increased activities among children and young people. But not all children and young people engage in organized sport, so it is important that the unorganised youth also get their share of the drugs. It is important that children’s and young people’s policies are given high attention in all departments. The Ministry of Children and Family now has the primary responsibility for the child law, the adoption law and the growing environment of children and young people. Municipalities are responsible for the welfare services offered to all their inhabitants of all ages. The local economy, which is under the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, determines what opportunities a municipality can offer to children and young people in the municipality – not to mention the great responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health. Child protection needs to be strengthened to help all those children and young people who do not have the security that so many of us take for granted. The fight against genital mutilation, circumcision, and the many ruined lives by some adults committing sexual abuse against children, must never stop. Children and young people are influenced daily by advertising models. This causes many to develop eating disorders. Anorexia and bulimia are serious diseases that affect many young girls, but also boys. Both school and sport have given this far too little attention. This societal problem must be tackled. Children and young people who are reminded daily that they are unable to attend school or sports, and also do not look like Beckham's wife, can at worst become depressed and self-destructive, which, in turn, can lead to poor self-image and, in the worst case, suicide. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to strengthen the paediatric psychiatry. In order to do so, it must be accompanied by state resources, and everyone here in the Grand Duchy should be aware of that. It is a responsibility of all of us. Although many of us here have youth behind us, we may not have completely forgotten a time of many difficult, unanswered questions, such as: Who am I? – not least on the sexual level. It is therefore important to focus on information and the possibility for young people to get in touch with professionals who can provide professional advice. It's important that sex is put into an overall framework that can tell the young people that sex is not just a technique and a number, but most importantly, there's love between two equivalent people and leads to taking responsibility. Therefore, school health should not become a balancing item but be strengthened. I can't talk about the growing-up and living conditions of children and young people without seeing this in relation to the overall living conditions of families. The Labour Party will therefore be committed to reducing unemployment. Unemployment is wasted on resources – and a major problem for individuals and families, both human and economic. When father or mother loses fixed income, this reduces the possibility for children to participate in activities that cost. It is therefore very sad that the majority in this Chamber will not support the Workers’ Party’s proposals in relation to the revised national budget to increase the number of labour market measures. The working party will not make it more difficult for the unemployed than they already experience. The Bondevik Government, with the support of the Progress Party, increases the number of days before the unemployed are entitled to unemployment benefits, and the same parties have made sure that those who become unemployed actually have to earn 80 000 kroner before they are entitled to social security. This affects part-time and low-paid people. This cannot be called solidarity with those who have it difficult already. This also does not strengthen the growing-up and living conditions of children and young people. That's what the Bondevik government should do. I recommend an article that was in the magazine in the newspaper on Saturday: «Good time, bad advice, changing moods. Life as an unemployed person can be tough. But what happens to the children?"
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1663	I want to start by commending the Government in general and the Minister for Children and Family Affairs in particular to pursue an active and forward-looking policy in the field of family and growth. The government has, among other things: a comprehensive communication on family policy, which the Committee looks forward to considering on the other side of the summer. The perspective in the message is actually as natural as it is surprising. Family policy shall be based on the family as a safe framework for child rearing. The government has done extensive modernisation work within the main welfare measure we have, namely the school. This I will come back to later. Last, but not least, the Government has also provided this Communication on child-rearing and living conditions. The measures presented in the Communication are so many, so diverse and so extensive that it is not possible to address all of them in a single article. We should also be aware that since the notification was submitted last June, many of the measures described in the communication have already been implemented. We should also note that there is a relatively broad consensus on the growth message, and the majority are essentially behind what is the government's policy. I would like to stress that the Right is very pleased that Norway now has a government that is pursuing an active and forward-looking family policy, where the main focus is on creating good growth conditions for the children. When you read the setting, you can’t avoid noticing that the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Workers’ Party take advantage of the opportunity to blackmail the economic situation of the municipalities. I'm not going to disagree that the municipalities are facing quite major challenges to get the ends to meet. The government has also clearly indicated that the finances of municipalities should be improved, and municipalities should receive more of the transfers as free revenues. In addition, the government’s tight fiscal policies have contributed to a deterioration in interest rates and the exchange rate. It is also an important contribution to the local economy in the long term. But what I'm concerned about here is the left-hand side perspective on how to meet the challenges. At each crossroads, these parties use the opportunity to say that the solution is more money. They seem to think that if the public had only been allowed to take one penny more from the households or jobs, we could solve all the problems. But it's a shame they refuse to realize that it's possible to think about something new, that it's possible to do things differently, that it's possible to get more money back. I spend some time on this, because it's important that households, i.e. the families, keep as much of their own income as possible in order to give children and young people a good upbringing. It is important that as many parents as possible are able to manage their own income and not depend on public transfers. As politicians, we have a duty to manage taxpayers' money as best as possible. It's a duty we should take quite seriously. The right will give families more money, which is necessary to improve living conditions and growing conditions for children and young people. The main part of both the historical and the modern welfare state of Norway is the school. A good school is essential to give individuals the opportunity to realize themselves. A good school is essential to provide a good starting point for all children to be able to cope and stand on their own, and is thus an extremely important social policy and balancing tool. A good school is essential for Norway to be a knowledge nation in the future, with a knowledge-based business that creates the values we so sorely depend on if we still want Norway to be a welfare nation. The right is the school party. As described in the Communication, the Government has implemented or is in the process of implementing a number of measures to create a better school. For the right, it is impossible to settle down on the fact that one in five Norwegian students cannot read and write properly. We cannot settle for the fact that Norwegian students, despite the enormous resource availability and the high teacher density, score mediocrely in international comparisons. It is therefore reassuring to see that we now have a government that takes these challenges seriously and wants to do something with them. In this context, I would also like to point out measures to improve the physical and building conditions of the school that facilitate good learning, action plan against bullying, so that everyone can get a safe school day, and improved teacher training so that we get competent and committed teachers. Last but not least, the government also strengthens the content and quality of school. It takes time to turn such a huge organization as Norwegian school, and we have to lubricate ourselves with patience.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1687	Fortunately, it is in Norway that most people have a good and safe breeding environment. Most are surrounded by a family who both take responsibility and give the children the love and care they need. The danger of getting a growth message is that as politicians, we end up focusing on everything that's wrong in society, forgetting or losing focus on what's good. And there's a lot of good in this growth message. The children are our future. They will be women and men, parents, society and nation. We depend on our children's attitudes, their social views and their goodwill to secure our own future as elderly, old and perhaps nurturing people. What can therefore be more important than ensuring that they get the very best growth conditions, education and opportunities to develop into harmonious and safe people who can create good social relationships for the benefit of all of us. It's not going to come from the fact that this is essentially the parents' task. It automatically becomes their responsibility as they put a child into the world. And the best framework around the growth of a child is, in the opinion of the Advancement Party, a harmonious and stable home, where two parents together create a safe place for the children to grow up. This must be the starting point. But unfortunately, there has been a development where there has been a change in the framework of stable conditions. The family's ability to have stable care and mission functions is significantly impaired, perhaps especially due to increased cost of living. Well, it's hard to live in a single-income family, simply because the cost of living has become too high. However, the consequences, for whatever reason, are that public responsibility for an increasing proportion of children and young people’s waking up time: kindergarten, school, SFO, municipal leisure activities, etc. – all organized in a good educational form. This was obviously meant ironic. I actually think we're doing the kids and the kids a bear service by taking care of them and sneaking around them at all times. The growing-up generation actually has to learn from their own mistakes, and not be taught everything – just as we did, and that has become people of us too. The difference between us and the kids and the kids who grow up today is that we had a mother at home -- at least many of us. No, I'm not going to chase the women back to the kitchen bench. Whether you want to be at home or not, people get to choose for themselves. But my point is that there was actually someone there. It was the safe foundation, someone to talk to, someone to cry at, someone to laugh with. It was the safe foundation, and we should do that as a goal to get back, that conditions are set up, so that parents have an opportunity to follow up their children. I may be wrong, but I'm actually convinced that if we had done that, we would have avoided much of the child crime, early onset and behavioral problems. It's about having time, and it's about caring. The fact that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is now being incorporated into Norwegian legislation is joyous. The Progress Party has had the program fixed for a long time, and it is good that it will be put in place. But the Progress Party also takes inwards that the world is probably not the way we would like it to be, and that the public has a certain responsibility for safe breeding environments and even has responsibility for some children and young people in Norway. So not all parents are able to give their children the care and love I talked about earlier. But the more important it is for the public to do that job properly. We've heard too many sad stories about children and young people in child protection institutions and in foster homes. It means one thing that the public does not do their job well enough, despite all the good intentions of politicians both on the Stortinget and in the municipalities. Therefore, the Progress Party promotes proposals for the Government to come back with a case concerning the establishment of growth monitoring, free and independent supervision to accompany both in kindergartens, schools, child protection institutions and all other places where children live, that nothing is illegal and that there are good breeding environments in Norway. We do not get a majority for this proposal today, but the idea is launched, and we will come back to this. And then we're going to hope that other parties will eventually see the benefits and strength of having such supervision. In fact, when it comes to the question of contact persons in the municipalities, some municipalities have contact persons. In addition, the Progress Party believes that growth monitoring will also do so. In addition, there are many good ideas in the communication and a great many good tools for giving children and young people good growth conditions in Norway. It will take too much time to comment on the various measures proposed by the minority in the vote. The progress party cannot join them, although I do not doubt that the intentions are good, and that one intends to protect and spare children and young people as much as possible. However, we are of the opinion that the public cannot regulate and prohibit. I have faith in the growing family, and I have faith in us as parents. The progress party actually agrees with the Gro Harlem Brundtland once said: ‘However, we are parents who have the primary responsibility to give our children the security and respect for themselves and others who alienate them from crime and violence.’ Nabokering is gone, but parents are still here to ensure that most children and young people grow up safely. I would like to take up the proposals of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1718	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1721	The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has now presented in government a big message about children and youth's growth and living conditions. This is the first comprehensive communication on children’s and young people’s policies presented. It is quite amazing that we had to until this year before it came. In other words, it's a historical event. But it is also historic, I think, with the broad and solid majority we see here today in the Grand Duchy of Government policy. That is the majority of all the proposals. This promises good for our further work for children and young people. The vast majority of children and young people in Norway today live in safe and good economic conditions. However, prosperity does not mean prospering and having a good time. For some, the everyday life is marked by insecurity and solitude. Caring failure, violence, bullying, drug abuse, difficulties in reaching school and difficulties in entering the labour market are also part of the reality of some. To address these challenges, the Government has presented a comprehensive communication on child policies and youth policies. We want to create a warmer society. Our starting point is responsibility for our own lives and a co-responsibility for the community. The Family and Care Party Christian People's Party wants to create good conditions for children and young people. Through child and youth policies, the Government wants to make parental responsibility visible and challenge the many good forces among children and young people for participation and social responsibility, and not least adults are challenged to free up young people's own resources. Take children and young people seriously! The aim is to contribute to a child and youth policy that creates a safe, meaningful and evolving everyday life for more people. To ensure this, cooperation and interaction between parents, public authorities and non-governmental organisations need to be strengthened and further developed. There is a need to stimulate value-conscious choices, voluntary efforts, co-responsibility and parenthood. Improving the participation and influence of children and young people in society is important. A main perspective in the message is children and young people as resources. Strengthening the participation and influence of children and young people is continuous. I believe that children and young people have far too little influence in today's society. They must have an influence as early as possible on decisions relating to them. Childhood is a life phase with its own value, and not just a preparation for ‘real life’. Our policies for children and young people should be based on their being «human beings» and not «human becomings». Children and young people account for a quarter of Norway’s population. In the last decade of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, we have also increased the focus on children and the rights of young people. With this government, the Children's Convention has been incorporated into Norwegian law. Childhood is a life phase with its own value, not just a preparation for ‘real life’. Most Norwegian children and young people have good reproductive and living conditions. But there are children and young people who need extra support and help to get as good opportunities as the majority. This Communication also addresses services and measures for children and young people with special needs, such as: increased staffing in mental health protection and work against sexual abuse and exploitation of children. At a time when we are experiencing changes in family patterns, and a break in life, we believe that the family’s importance for growth has increased. The notification refers to many measures to strengthen parental responsibility, including: cooperation between school and home. With regard to children with disabilities, in this context I show that the Government is working on this as a matter of its own, and will come back with a comprehensive policy in this area. It is important that we increase interaction between the public and voluntary sectors. This could increase participation, diversity and responsibility. We want municipalities to have their own youth contacts, and there should be more young people in boards, councils and selections. First of all, I want to challenge government agencies to use the resources that young people represent. But it is important that we do not socialize young people into becoming bureaucrats. By that I believe that it is not always natural for young people to sit on board and sample, this because young people are going to be themselves and not be hostages to political decisions. Youth must be allowed to mean something without always being responsible at the other end. I would therefore like to comment on the following proposals which have been promoted today by the members of the Committee of the Socialist Left: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider the establishment of a Youth Council to have representatives of the cross-ministerial group.’ The Christian People's Party believes it is inappropriate to set up such a state youth council. It will be problematic to provide advice that is representative of the whole youth group and that can take care of all aspects of child policy. Youth, like everyone else, is also very different. That's why it's natural to use different ways to get young people to express their opinion. The Christian People's Party believes it is more important to allow young people to be creative and premiscuous in the public debate than to become public entrepreneurs, as SV will. In this context, I refer to the Government Youth Panel, a panel set up for a period of time to be a critical commentator to the Government's environmental and aid policy. Such short-term projects believe the Christian People's Party will be useful and a good way to listen to young people's voices. The Christian People's Party believes that the voluntary children's and youth organisations are the best speakers for children and young people. The Christian People’s Party has therefore simplified the legislation on support for children’s and youth organisations. The new regulation entails substantial simplification. We want to contribute to increased activity and greater diversity of children’s and youth organisations. We make it easier for small organisations with a limited basis for recruitment to obtain stable revenue. In addition, a new start-up grant will facilitate the establishment of organisations. We want both organisations and authorities to spend less time on applications and controls. The changes free up time for organisations, and the authorities will have more time for follow-up and guidance. We want this to increase the involvement of children and young people and improve their situation. This is probably a message for which this government has submitted and received an impact. I congratulate the Davøy Council on an offensive and forward-looking policy in the work of children and young people. But above all, it is a promise for children and young people. I wish we had had time to read out measures following measures taken from the message. I recommend that Storting's listeners – the President and others – read the message, because there are a lot of useful and many challenges that we have to address in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1754	Yeah, we'll see what we can do during the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1758	Introducingly, I would like to say that there is an extensive message we are about to deal with, and that the centre party is essentially about content. The message is full of fine words about strategies, states and measures that will probably require resources if one is to be able to implement it. The center part agrees with most of the sketches. But if we are to succeed, it will be decisive that the many good measures are followed up by the necessary means. I am surprised to note that the representative Rafiq used a lot of the time to roll over the Centre Party, the Labour Party and SV, while the representative focuses on the good community economy, when we debate a message that goes on children and the growing-up conditions of young people. The centre party emphasises that the family has ours and still has to be an important arena around the growth of children and young people. Although society is constantly changing, with more and more challenges both for children and adults, it is likely that never so many parents have followed their children as closely as they do today. It is now different to be a child and a parent than it was just a few years ago. Many parents have a more demanding work life. Parents have money, but not time. There are many people who are missing a network and have no family around them. The technology has invaded the children's room, and more and more children use more and more of their time rather than various screens. Many have probably been the ones who could call the time their prisoner, and have feared that the technology would solve the time clip. But we just have to recognize the following: the technology gives more possibilities, which in turn requires more time. For this reason, the Centre believes that the overarching ‘time policy’ needs to be given greater attention in Norwegian policy. It is against the background that the Centre Party has pointed out some social measures and measures to help parents in a time-consuming everyday life and to take time back. I would like to mention a strengthening of the time-accounting arrangements and of the care pay arrangements as an example of how we can contribute. Childcare facilities at an affordable price are an important element of a healthy family policy. Should young children's parents have real freedom of choice, this is, in my opinion, entirely decisive. We have to have flexible childcare facilities to adapt to the users, it's going to benefit family members. And with a bunch of stuff behind the kindergarten message, which we're going to deal with later today, I have great faith that we're going to achieve that goal. And either Rafiq likes it or not, this will cost money. Children and young people can safely be the most important resource we have. Investment for the benefit of children and young people is an investment for the future. Here I could take a number of measures to facilitate safe and inclusive communities, but I would like to highlight in particular the challenges we face in terms of road safety. In my home country, we have worked a lot with traffic safety plans for the municipalities in order to get a safe track and get the number of traffic accidents down. It is the vote that there is a lack of money that has set limits on ensuring the schooling of many children. The unemployment rate is high and growing, many plant machines are standing, while hundreds of socially useful tasks are waiting to be solved. It is incomprehensible that we can afford to pay unemployment benefits, but not afford to secure the school for our children. A new approach that gives cause for concern and concern is the so-called 20-year crisis. Young people are subject to strong demands and systemic pressures in a society that promotes their success, and pressures when it comes to grades, education and demands in the workplace. The explosive increase in burnout among young people is a warning lamp. The struggle to be successful both at school and in careers, socially and at home may well reduce the quality of life to too many. Many of the demands in time are unrealistic and harmful, for example: the appearance requirement. It's a cross of mind for us that the most common cause of death among young women is food refusal. Commercialisation and advertising are contributing to the decline in normality, and there is less room for shortages and individuality. For the Center Party, it's important that we don't get advertising directly directed at children, e.g. through ether media and that there is a ban on advertising in school books. It is not recommended to cover all areas of the message in 5 minutes. Finally, I would just like to say that preventive measures should be put on the agenda, so we do not spend so much time on repairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1786	Children and young people are the future of the country. How do we take care of those who are going to continue our country? Some will answer that children and young people have never had it as well as they do in Norway today. Yeah, maybe it's right if we talk about money and wealth. But we also have many children and young people who are both being bullied, experiencing violence and care failure, and who experience that mother and/or father often rushes. These children and young people will also be involved in shaping future Norway. Therefore, the authorities must facilitate and give real priority to all children in the situation they may be in. Let them feel that they are worth something, even without parents with lots of money and status. The challenges lie ahead, especially for young people. It's about not being outside, so the pressure gets high to be in most things, both activities and outdoors, and that's where most young people want to limit their parents. I agree with professor of sport Gunnar Breivik when he says, "Let children bore themselves." They'll figure something out eventually, and then creativity turns out. Then comes the imagination, the play, and the exploration. I think it's healthy that not all activity is organized activity led by adults. But all children are entitled to safe surroundings, and I get worried when I hear that more and more parents choose to take their children out of the school leisure system because of the costs. They do not have the power to pay both school leave and kindergarten for younger siblings, and that affects those children who should perhaps be the most likely to join the school leisure system. The Labour Party is concerned that we will again have many key kids, as we had before the school leisure system was introduced. I think it is completely wrong for the government to cut the funds for the school leave scheme, and then put it in the framework of the municipalities. This is clearly a weakening of the offer to our smallest schoolchildren. Where is the whole idea of a safe growth, and where is the interaction between state and local authorities that is really the intention of the message we are now dealing with? The content of the message is good, but there will not be much interaction when municipalities get poorer and poorer finances. Evil tongues say that the Workers' Party in all contexts is bringing forward the municipal economy, and that with more funds for the municipalities everything would be very well. Yes, it is in the municipalities that children, young people and adults live, and that is where school services, leisure services, school health services and other prevention work have to be cut down on children and young people. These are realities, and it doesn't create interactions. It creates frustrations. But then we are so lucky in this country that we have a very good organisational life and volunteers who like to support it. Prime Minister Bondevik praised the voluntary work in his New Year's speech and, in particular, highlighted the Night's Eves and the work these adults are doing for youth at night. What is at the top of the wish list for children and young people is contact with adults, said the Prime Minister. Those were sensible words, but they must not just be words, they must also be action. When we see and hear what is happening in sports and culture Norway where children are involved, it is important that framework conditions and simple legislation are in place. We can't do the job of just volunteering. I know that children who get local cultural experiences get a strong sense of belonging, a pride of being who they are, and a pride of being where they are. They learn to trust themselves and trust others. This is, in fact, both district policy and urban policy. We have to let children and young people go, they have to participate in their premises, and they have to be involved in decision-making processes that have to do with their own everyday lives. We have to let the kids get different values on the way than just tough movies and hours in front of a PC. Finally, I would say that the most important thing is that we give of our time. Let the kids feel like we're there for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1817	First, I would like to say that it is gratifying that there are so positive feedbacks that the message is comprehensive and good. St.meld. No 39 for 2001–02, The Growth and Living Conditions for Children and Youth in Norway, is the first comprehensive communication on child policies presented here in the country. The Communication sets out an overall effort to strengthen the growing-up environment through interaction between public authorities, non-governmental organisations, parents and young people themselves. A main perspective is the resource of children and young people. Another important perspective is the strengthening of parental responsibility, which the representative Woldseth also pointed out strongly. The communication is based on five overall objectives: good and secure growth conditions with a place for diversity active family policies that provide children with a good starting point for independence and self-developmental co-responsibility and influence over their lives and in social solidarity, responsibility and respect for others The message is comprehensive, and I can't go into all the different areas of activity here. But I would like to stress that the message is concrete and takes into account the many challenges we all face in ensuring good growth and living conditions for all children and young people in Norway. Overall, 168 actions and fields of action are presented. The Committee has provided a thorough response to the notification, which I have read with great interest. I am pleased to note that the Committee expresses its satisfaction with the communication, and the overall perspective on the growing conditions of children and young people to which it refers. If we are to work together to ensure a good growth environment for all children and young people, this must be given a real priority, both at state and at municipal level. That is why I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus about the importance of enhanced efforts for children and young people. The treatment of the notification must be seen in the context of other important issues of importance for children and young people promoted by the Government and discussed in the Stortinge in this spring. This may include, inter alia: the communication on child protection and youth protection, the call for proposals on childcare policy, the call for proposals on the action plan against poverty and the call for proposals on public health policy. I can also mention some of the action plans that have already been submitted: the action plan against rape, against gender mutilation, against the commercial pressure on children and young people, and the ongoing new action plans on family violence, on sexual and physical abuse of children – and yet the list is not exhausted. All this should and must be seen in the context. The rights of children and young people, and their opportunities for participation and influence in society, are a horizontal theme of the Communication. The Committee has also placed great emphasis on this and has chosen to see the Communication in the context of the Proposition on the transposition of the Children’s Convention into Norwegian law, which has recently been discussed by the Stortinget. I hope that there is no doubt that the work on the follow-up to the Children's Convention, both incorporation into Norwegian law and follow-up on policy-making, has a high priority on the part of the Government. I would also like to refer to Norway's third report on the follow-up to the Children's Convention, which we have recently sent to the United Nations. Strengthening parental responsibility is one of the main points of view of the message. This is further elaborated in the family message, St.meld. No 29 for 2002-2003, as presented by the Government in April. I have taken note of the Committee's views on family policy, and that one will take this up to its fullest extent in dealing with the family communication for the autumn. Family policy is, as you know, one of the central issues of the Government, and I look forward to an exciting debate in Stortinget when the family communication is being addressed. The committee configuration contains several minority proposals. Time does not extend to that I can comment on everyone, but I still want to draw someone out. The Party wishes to establish a growth monitoring body. I do not see that the interests of children and young people are better protected by establishing a new supervision alongside the supervisory systems that are already in place. I would like to point out that the supervisory tasks have become more concentrated than in the past, by the fact that the county doctors and the State Education Office have now been integrated into the county offices. I'm referencing here to Innst. S. No 307 for 2000-2001. Instead of setting up new supervision, I would like to point out the importance of ensuring high quality and effectiveness in supervision, so that the interests of children and young people are better cared for both in kindergarten, school, child and youth protection and in health services. I have also noticed that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are asking the Government to come back with comprehensive and concrete measures against poverty in families with children. This is a work of which the Government is occupied, and with which it is working over a wide area. I would like to refer here to the Action Plan against Poverty, St.meld. No 6 for 2002–03, as treated in spring. I am familiar with the criticism that the plan does not contain enough concrete measures aimed at children and young people, as some have said. To this I will reply that child poverty is closely linked to the economy of parents and that measures to strengthen parents' association with the labour market are important. It is also important that good services and services are available in municipalities, so that those in need of additional support and help get it. Furthermore, good and cheap child and youth meeting places are important locally, both under the authority of public authorities and non-governmental organisations. This is highlighted in the Children’s and Youth Communication, and we have already started a dialogue with voluntary children’s and youth organisations on this issue. At all, you have to see all of these relationships in context. Furthermore, this year the Ministry of Children and Family has invited the largest cities to apply for funding for holiday and leisure activities aimed at children and young people in families affected by poverty problems. We have received many good applications for the department, and these funds will be distributed before the summer holidays. These are just a few examples of what is happening, and I can promise that the Government will follow up this work in the future. But if we are to make a good effort, it is important that the municipalities also follow up. The government is constantly criticised for imposing new tasks on the municipality and for not compensating for increased expenditure in carrying out the tasks. Although this criticism does not always lead to correctness, I am glad that in the Children's and Youth's Communication we do not impose new tasks on the municipalities. However, the Communication contains a number of proposals and signals relevant to municipal child and youth work and encourages municipalities to put children and young people on the agenda. I think it is important that there is a clear signal to the municipalities about the expectations of child and youth work locally, and I have received more positive feedback from the local sector that the proposals and calls in the communication are of great benefit to local work, and that is a pleasure. Many of the proposals and calls addressed to the municipal sector also do not require new funds, but may also require local authorities to organise their work in other ways, and not least to ensure an active dialogue with young people, parents and non-governmental organisations. In order to stimulate good child and youth policies in municipalities, the Government will, among other things, from this year onwards of appointing a municipality for children and young people. This should be a municipality where children and young people have influence and who have distinguished themselves through a long-term effort to improve the growing-up environment. Children's and youth policy is an area that engages many. If we are to get a good bet, I will again underline the importance of interaction and cooperation between the many who are responsible for children and young people's growth, and that there is an active dialogue with children and young people themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1865	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1868	I am very pleased that the Council of State is concerned with a comprehensive policy. Does this mean, then, that the Council of State, like the Workers' Party, could have wished that we could have further strengthened unemployment and labour market measures? And does that mean, for example, that the Council of State could agree with the Labour Party that we must guarantee that youth under the age of 25 can receive either work or education? And that means that the Council of State is also concerned that children who don't have it so well at home can have a place of assembly, for example. SFO? I would like to take up the thread from Torny Pedersen's posts and ask: What will the Council of State do to replace the many SFO measures that become too expensive for some parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1873	There were a lot of questions the representative Faldet travelled here. I'm very busy getting unemployment down, and it's also the government. Having a job is extremely important if we are to be able to become good families – you need income. In this context, the Government has also increased and stepped up efforts to combat unemployment. Throughout the poverty message, it is also possible to strengthen labour market measures and work for all as a red thread, because it is so important for everyone. When it comes to this with the SFO, I cannot go into that arrangement, because it is not the subject of debate in this communication. But the challenge went to the gathering place for children and young people. If we ask youth today, we get the answer that having a place to be is actually one of the most important things for children and young people. In my opinion, there are too many public buildings empty, even in the afternoon, in our municipalities, and they could have been better used.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1882	It was incredibly good to hear the Council of Ministers talking about children's rights. I didn't even hear her mention the words "best of children," and it was incredibly delicious, I think. We are changing our vocabulary a little – but back to growth monitoring. Child protection institutions are not provided with the supervision they are required to carry out at the county level, and growth supervision is not, in fact, intended as a new supervision on the side of the established supervisory systems, but it is intended as a substitute for all the different supervision now integrated into the county office, both in the field of school, kindergarten, child protection and other matters. I wonder if the Council of State can assess this when she now learns that it is not intended as an oversight on the side of the supervisory arrangements that are already in place, but is intended to replace them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1889	I am enough of the perception that the different supervision we have in the different areas today is important to maintain. I'm thinking about the county, which has a general supervision of the municipalities. He also has a responsibility for the supervision of child protection and child care. In terms of health, we have a health surveillance, i.e. the county doctor, who is responsible for psychiatry and for the health sector in general. And then we have an education director's office that's responsible for the school. I am concerned that we should have an oversight that also has a basic professional competence. If the representative thinks that we should replace the supervision I mentioned, with one supervision, I might be somewhat concerned as to whether it could have the necessary professional competence in all areas. It is possible that we have not yet discussed the content of what the Progress Party wants, but so far I want to maintain the supervision we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1896	I have two questions for the Council of State. One is the message that ‘the government will consider... providing more housing solutions with related services to these groups. In general, families with children are not allowed to stay at the hostel’. This population has decided that families with children should not stay at the home. We still know that there are children who do. I wonder what the Council of State will do with this problem in the future, which is very serious. The second is, how will the Council of State engage with children's and youth organisations in commitment? It is not the case that children and young people should become politicians. Nor has SV meant that with its proposal. What we are concerned about is how to hear children, because you are now obliged to listen to children and young people in all matters relating to them. One of the things that came out as the most critical in the hearings we had about this message was that children and young people felt that they had not been heard and had not been included.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1903	With regard to the homeless, I would like to refer here today only to the housing message that is coming, which will be debated in depth in the Stortinget later. Here, this is going to be viewed in a whole. The fact that no one is going to live at the shelter is part of the government parties in the setting of the notification, namely that it will be followed up by the Government. When it comes to obliging cooperation with the children’s and youth organisations, we have good cooperation with them. Yes, children must be heard. We know that at municipal level, the child representative scheme is under review, i.e. the timing of the selection process is now being consulted. Here you want to look at this question. In addition, we know that three-quarters of our municipalities have already set up different – to say – influence bodies for children and young people. With regard to the government and the department that I run, which is responsible for the children's and youth organisations, we have a good and formal cooperation with these. But we also have a number of other different forums where children and young people are heard in different areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1913	As the Council of State said in its article, 168 actions follow the message. As I've said before, I think it's very good there. Public services such as leisure clubs, music and cultural schools, etc. shall be provided and shall be reasonable or approximated for free. There is also a good deal about health centres and about strengthening staffing within the psychiatry. This includes: talk about 205 more daily places for young people, 265 more daily places for children and young people, etc. All of this I thought is very good. However, on the basis of what was said by the Right-Representative on the good municipal economy, and that many of these measures should be taken in the municipalities – including the municipalities. The psychosocial service will be strengthened by 260 years of work – I almost have to ask the Council of State to think about how this will be financed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1920	This will need to be followed up by different departments in the different areas. The representative mentioned psychiatry. The population knows that there are quite specific escalation plans in child and youth psychiatry. It's important. In relation to the Ministry of Child and Family Affairs, we have, not least in this Chamber, just a short time ago debated the Child Protection Communication, which is extremely important in terms of both the organisation and content of services, and the way we are going to work. But I want to say that, on the part of this government, we have also proposed to increase the framework, not least the free income of the municipalities. Our municipalities are different. There are no municipalities that are equal. They have come a long way in different areas. Despite this, Stortinget continues to want to designate – in my opinion too much – the municipalities. I wish we could have agreed on greater flexibility in relation to the municipalities, so that they might also have had the opportunity to give a stronger priority to what is always important. Children and young people are a strong priority also for many municipalities, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1929	I do not think that the Council of State answered directly Eirin Faldet's question about the cost of having children in the SFO and the problems we see in front of us. That's why I'm going to ask the council to answer whether she shares the Workers' Party's concern that we can once again get a lot of six, seven and eight-year-olds with keys to the neck because of the costs of the SFO, the safe place that we've been able to get, and that's actually legal?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1934	It is clear that as the responsible State Council I am also concerned if we have too poor offers for children and young people, it is through SFO or other arrangements. What the representative also mentioned in his previous post, this with time pressure, the fact that the parents may have too little time compared to what you want for children, is also important. With regard to the SFO, I would like to say once again that there is no theme in this big message. We have debated it many times before in this Chamber, and the representatives here are very familiar with the Government's view on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1943	The string font for replies has been terminated. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1948	In fact, the first thing that strikes me is that there are only women who have so far had the word in this case about the growth of children and young people. I don't know if it's men's fault, or if it's the women who don't let the men go. It's not that easy to say. But I think it is actually sad that the men do not participate in this debate that is so important. The message has a lot of themes, and we've heard fragments from several of the themes. I just want to stop up a little bit on the theme of school and education. The representative Afshan Rafiq spent a lot of his time commending the Government, and especially the Right, for the efforts that have been made and that are to be made in the future to improve the public school. The representative must do so. It is right that the government has promoted many issues relating to primary education. We have already dealt with many issues in this Chamber, and many good decisions have been made. But much of the noise around this has been about fresh oils and the financing of fresh oils. Many people actually feel that the government is betting a lot on this topic and the right to choose school rather than to create a good school. The representative Rafiq went on to say that the opposition is constantly talking about resources. I would like to remind you that the Secretary of State here from the Parliamentary Chair has actually also expressed concern about the resource situation in school. That's why I think it's a little easier to say that it's just about using and exploiting resources in a better way. I think public school is important. It is important as a common arena for children, as a meeting place, regardless of social background, religious position and ethnic background. That is why I believe that primary school, the public school, is actually very important, and that it is an area in which much more attention should be paid. When it comes to the resource situation in primary school, we know that the number of split hours has fallen considerably in the last two school years, 9 pst. the first year and 10 pst. the second year. It simply does not lead to more organized education. If there's something that needs to be an important task for the school, it's just to be able to organize the teaching in such a way that there are no losers created in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1963	The representative, Mr Rafiq, was concerned about this with economic and administrative implications. There is a separate point in the setting of the message, 2.15, where it says: ‘The Committee is pleased that the Communication concludes that there is a need for increased funding to strengthen and further develop work in the field of children and youth and considers that this needs to have an impact on the annual budgets. The government is making a stronger effort to improve the growing-up environment for children and young people. This is necessary in order to meet the major challenges facing us in terms of children and young people’s growing-up conditions. It faces new major challenges for local and central authorities.’ It is almost so I wonder if the representative Afghan Rafiq knows what she has been on in the setting of this message. Under the point of economic and administrative consequences, that's exactly what it says. I really took the word to get into Document No. 8:39, which we are now dealing with with this message. It is a proposal from me and Sigbjørn Molvik to ask ‘The government is coming back to Stortinget with proposals for measures that stimulate Norwegian municipalities to establish their own contact person/talker for children and young people’. The proposal has been included in the setting for this growth message, because we think this belongs together. Children and young people need contact and intercoms in their municipalities. They should fill part of the same function locally as the Children’s Ombudsman at national level. The establishment of a contact person/counterperson for children and young people in municipalities must be voluntary and provide a wide range of local design and organisation solutions. The contribution of central authorities in this context should be financial mechanisms that stimulate the establishment of such a function in each municipality. We are promoting this proposal in the examination of this communication today. In the end, I was not allowed to say that the message does not address the situation of disabled children and young people to a great extent. It has been addressed to the pulpit earlier today, and the Government will come back to the UK with concrete measures and policies in this important area. I also did not have time to thank the Committee for a good cooperation. Then I hope this message becomes a driver of a better growth policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1979	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left are vigorously trying to turn the growth message into a message of growth in poverty. My intention is not to criticize them for being concerned with poor children and adults. I just think it's a little sad that these parties are not once able to break free from some of their more programmatic formulations. The Growth Communication describes a number of poverty reduction measures. Poor children are really the children of poor parents, and one of the most important things we can do to combat child poverty is to strengthen parents' employment. So there can be disagreement in the Storting about how best to do it. The growth report establishes the principle of a free public school, and fresh schools believe that we are an important complement to public school. The right believes that a good and free school for everyone is the best welfare policy we can pursue, and that a good school, which takes the individual student seriously, is inextricably linked to a good upbringing. I think it is important to stress that there should be no doubt that this government is taking poverty seriously, not least in the case of child poverty. Rather, we see that the Right and Government will have targeted measures to combat poverty, while others will lubricate the money thinly beyond with large general schemes that do not reach those who need it the most. I would like to remind the Labour Party and the Socialist Left that the Government has presented a comprehensive communication on poverty in Norway, where it has outlined a number of targeted measures to combat poverty. So to the representatives Eli Sollied Överaas and May Hansen: I don't disagree that the municipalities are facing major financial challenges, but the Right and Government are working to find solutions to how it can get better. This applies not only to resource access but also to finding new ways of organising activities. And unlike the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, which use every opportunity to blackmail the situation, we're trying to do something with it. And that's what I in my main post underlined was sin.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e1992	First I would like to say that I think this has been a good debate. Although it's now beginning to eat a little bit at the end, there's a lot of consensus about the important thing. It was with some wonder that I heard the representative Woldseth propose a growth monitoring. We already know that the Progress Party wants state supervision in almost all areas of life. Only in the last year has there been talk of child protection, school supervision, police surveillance, and a number of other government agencies. However, the particularity of the party’s own growth supervision is, at least in its programme, that ‘the family as an institution is the best example of voluntary, non-publicly regulated, social tasks’. It is not easy to see what kind of supervision the party's growth supervision should be. All regulated publicly funded tasks and measures described in the suspension are already subject to supervision and control in any form whatsoever. In addition, we have the Children's Ombudsman, who has a more relaxed watchkeeping function. I would also like to highlight the Civil Ombudsman as a body for which the administration has great respect and which has an impact on matters of the nature of the Progress Party as an example, and the kindergartens are subject to strict control. At the same time, I would like to stress that the role of parents as ‘supervisors’ is very important. We must innovate that if it ever comes to that point that we change the forms of supervision of child - rearing services, one must be very aware that we do not undermine the rights of parents and their own desire for responsibility for the growth of their children. If the Progress Party sees a growth monitor that is a pooling or coordination of different supervisory functions within the growth area, it may not be very alarming, unnecessarily centralising and with uncertain consequences, perhaps but not alarming. If, on the other hand, the Progress Party wishes to establish a growth monitoring body to deal with matters entirely on its own merits, or, as the representative Woldseth said in his statement, ‘all other places where children live’, and that it will be up to the growth monitoring body itself to consider what kind of matters they will go into, I would strongly warn against the proposal. Of course, the right cannot agree to the establishment of a free occasion inspection for example. to enter the families and to monitor the good conduct of their parents, the good functioning of the family in accordance with state standards. That's not how we can and should not have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e2003	It was recently criticised by the representative of May Hansen that there were too few measures aimed at disabled people, and that the government would come to the Stortinge when it came to this point. On Friday last week, the government presented a big message related to people with disabilities, with 120 measures to reduce the number of people with disabilities, as it says. Education, work, accessibility and services are the main areas of action in this Communication, and the Communication has, as it has said, more than 120 measures to help reduce the barriers of people with disabilities both at work and in leisure. And just to mention three main points: it's what goes on active participation and full equality, it's what goes on good accessibility to buildings and the outdoor environment, products and services, and it's what goes on more people in work that can benefit their abilities and facilities for themselves and society. So we've been following up the disabled, in particular from the government, through our own big-time message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e2012	It was like the usual representative, Avshan Rafiq, who made me take the floor. It seemed as if it came as a bomb to the representative that we have different views of different things, and that we allow ourselves to point it out from this pulpit. Then comes Afghan Rafiq with a long list in relation to the excellence of the Right. Isn't it programming its policy from this pulpit? I actually thought that Afghan Rafiq was aware that we are in Stortinget, and that we in this house are supposed to be doing some politics. At least that's how I understood it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e2020	Sometimes I get a little tired. I actually have to ask myself, where was the representative Sjøli when I kept my post? I spent six minutes of the article telling about the family's excellence, and then I spent one minute on growth control. Even – I'm sorry, President – the Council of State had brought with it how hot I was talking about how important the family is. Then I talked about the public, and about the children staying in the public room for more and more time, and that was where this growth monitoring was going to come in and replace – I say it now for the second time: replace – the supervision that is today. For example, we know that in 2003 there are child-restraint children who do not receive a single supervision by their county. If it's good supervision, then I'm wondering what the representative is really talking about. Of course, a growth monitor should not interfere with the family. The family is the one that can best provide our children with safe breeding environments, and growth monitoring should ensure that the public does their job properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e2027	I am surprised to note that the representative Rafiq continues to claim that while the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre without a stop black paints the situation when it comes to local economy, the government party is so-called creative when we discuss a message for children and young people. It is the state council itself that has said that 168 measures are mentioned in the message, and then it is reasonable to find out what it is the government's part of mein when the health services in the school are to be strengthened with 800 annual works and psychosocial services with 260 annual works. In addition, 400 outpatient professionals are required. Are these now going to pay with creativity, or does the government acknowledge that this will cost money?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e2034	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4. [[Fotation, see 3281]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e2049	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3282]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e2065	At the request of the family, culture and the administrative committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to three lines with replies after the insertion of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e2072	It is with great pleasure that I can see that there is a broad welcome in the Storting to support Stavanger's candidacy to become the European Capital of Culture in 2008. All parties, except the Advance Party, will support the prior commitment of State grants necessary for Rogaland County Municipality, together with the municipalities of Sandnes and Stavanger, to proceed in the application process. Being the European Capital of Culture is a very big boost for the Stavanger region, and it is a great boost for Norway. Here, Norwegian cultural environments will meet the international attention in a demanding way. The reason invites projects that can extend our ambitions with exciting contributions, also put into a wider European context. When the Right Heart backs up under Stavanger's candidacy, it's because we're convinced that this is a right bet now, and because we know that the Stavanger region will master the task. Through a long-term cultural effort, the Stavanger region has shown that they want something about art and culture. The cultural workshops at Tou Bryggery, the establishment of Sola kulturhus, or Stavanger’s urban installation ‘Broken Colomn’, which follows Antony Gormley’s installations on Solastrand, tell of the political will and a cultural environment with the ability to bet and perspective for innovation. The Stavanger region will move into a new phase after the oil epoch. The region has clear objectives and strategies to develop a modern and economically robust platform for the further growth of the region. Art and culture have been identified as important areas of activity to achieve this. In this picture, the Capital of Culture project is included correctly. It will strengthen the overall image of the city, its international networks and contribute to local enthusiasm. At the same time, you'll see that it's going to trigger a series of creative processes across the whole Stavanger community. A Capital of Culture project must, by virtue of its international reputation, and its economic scale, also be handled as a national matter. The project must involve major national projects involving our leading creative environments. If this is to become a reality, planning must facilitate this from the very beginning. The Stavanger region is asking for trust and support to take on an important mission for Norway. If they succeed in becoming the European Capital of Culture, it is important that both national authorities, such as national cultural and business environments, do not lose sight of the project in the years to come, but have the power to keep focus on the many possibilities that this project carries. All of Norway must provide a project such as this constructive resistance through the wish to participate, and set out contributions, demands and expectations as to what the European Capital of Culture should be for all of us. We are in front of the application job. I expect the government to come up with the help of the dragon, and wish the Stavanger region good luck with the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e2098	The municipalities of Stavanger and Sandnes and the County Municipality have applied for the status of European Capital of Culture of the Stavanger region in 2008. I am very pleased that it is not only the region, but now also the Government, which fully supports such an application, as is the majority here in the United Kingdom today. It is clear from the Labour Party that if we succeed, the application and work ahead of us will receive great and wholehearted support. It is important that a region, a country and a part of the country look ahead, look ahead and take initiatives, not least at this time, in new areas as well. We have to build together. That's why culture, regional, national and international, is important, and we have to do this in an interaction. I also think that the application so far contains good economic considerations. I think the region, both the county, the municipalities and the private ones, stands up quite strongly here, and it should just be lacking that we here in the Stortinget together with the Government are already giving a preliminary promise of at least 100 million. kr. Everyone knows that the Stavanger region has long and strong traditions culturally and historically. There are traditions that go far beyond our national borders, both to the United Kingdom and the island there, down to the continent and in the Baltic Sea regions. This will contribute most to strengthening our application and, to put it that way, to making it easier to deal with in Brussels. The role of the Capital of Culture could also have a very positive impact not only on local and regional cultural life, but also on building it together with the national, so that it becomes a whole, and it will be an incentive for the whole nation to take this promise. We have some experience from the Bergens region when they applied to become – and got to be – the capital of culture. Questions can be asked about certain aspects of this. But it is important to put it into the further considerations as we now continue in this setup here in order to get the best possible starting point if it would be yes. It is important to remember what it really is this region has been and can be in the future. The setting says something that I think is very significant, namely: ‘Stavanger as the future European Capital of Culture must become a cultural port for the whole of Norway’.» It's important when we look at how international this region is. That's where we have a lot to build on together. Such work is important, with all the international contacts you already have. That work and those contacts must also be built on here. The final decision, as we know, will be made in the early next year. I look forward to that decision. We all have to be good ambassadors to get this done, so that that decision goes in a positive direction, not just for the region, but for the whole of Norway. It's very important here to build on different pillars of our society building in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e2122	At the risk of launching the very large debate, however, I cannot fail to give a brief explanation as to why we will vote against this matter. There are probably not many minutes going on, I would assume, before a representative from some party immediately comes up on this pulpit and claims that the Progress Party is culturally opposed, but that is not the case. I represent Hordaland, and it's not that many years since Bergen was a cultural city. Not many years have passed since the price tag that was set was significantly exceeded. I must first say that both Stavanger and Sandnes are magnificent places. They will certainly come to their right when it becomes a capital of culture there. It will be, but it will be against the votes of the Progress Party. What worries me is they're 100 million. kr to be granted by the State. We are strongly opposed to that. Here we're going to spend taxpayers' money on a huge project, where the price tag barely stops at 150 million. kr. When the Stortinge today will grant 100 million. Stavanger and Sandnes municipalities, Stavanger has already granted 50 million. At the same time, the politicians in Stavanger will have to cut 150 million. kr. in his municipal budget. It hits the primary tasks first and foremost. That is what concerns the Progress Party. Stavanger has a reputation for planning to build a new concert hall in connection with the Capital of Culture event. It seems to get a price label of 1.1 billion. Experience has shown that a cultural city is a bottomless turn-off and that it is the primary tasks it is going through. We should not start with such huge projects as a cultural improvement effort until we have all the primary tasks solved. Actually, I don't think Stavanger or Sandnes does. What the final sum really was in Bergen, I shouldn't say for sure. But I know it was about a lot of money in addition to what was the original budget. The Progress Party does not want Stavanger and Sandnes to have the same challenges that Bergen had, and that is why we want to warn them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e2135	I didn't intend to comment on the Progress Party as a anti-cultural party, but when the invitation comes so open, it's hard not to. It's really unnecessary to comment on it, because that job seems to me to be the best way to fix it myself. It's not that they're cultural opponents, but it's a little bit difficult to find a line on what's being supported, and what's not being supported. They're always going to spend a little less money than the rest of us, but then there's other measures than on the cultural side where they want to spend a lot more money. I think the development in and on its own is good. They are willing to spend more money than before, but it would have been okay to find a course soon. So to Stavanger: SV supports the idea of Stavanger as European Capital of Culture in 2008. We agree with the rapporteur's considerations on the possibilities of such a status. We will also refer to the experiences of Bergen and point in this context to the need for the state to play an active role if it enters. That means there must be enough resources to carry out the project, as intended. I guess that means money. This is going to be a lifting that is heavier than the Stavanger region can handle alone, and then it is important that, as the rapporteur said, it becomes ‘a national matter’ and a common ‘lift’. We also assume that such involvement by the state means fresh resources, that they are not taken from, or weakening, existing cultural budgets and measures, and that the same is true locally, that there is no other planned cultural action or necessary welfare measures in municipalities and counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e2144	Fortunately, it is a clear majority in favour of state subsidies for the cultural activities of the times in the Stavanger and Sandnes regions. There is no drama in today’s debate, because all parties outside the Progress Party have taken a positive view of the Minister of Culture and an overall government’s fine assessment of entering into the Stavanger region’s status as European Capital of Culture in 2008, and not least the commitment to state support of up to 100 million. kr for the event. It's not just Stavanger City, it's the whole Stavanger region. The municipality has concluded a cooperation agreement with the municipality of Sandne and the municipality of Rogaland. The Stavanger region has long and rich art and cultural traditions, and the region has become an international venue. The region has experienced a cultural boom in recent years through the internationalisation of the region and a great growth of artistic production environments. Already today, the region stands out positively, with a rich cultural life, of great breadth and high quality. This major effort to become the European Capital of Culture is a huge economic effort, in which both Stavanger and Sandne municipalities, the county council, businesses and organisations contribute in addition to State aid. Today’s adoption of support for the application by the Stortinge is a great tribute to the initiators of Stavanger, with rapporteur and head of culture at the head, but also to all the environments and organisations in the Stavanger and Sandnes region that make this cultural initiative, with children and young people in focus, possible: the great and professional at the Barneteater in Stavanger, many singing and choir-group amateur theatre groups at the secondary schools, Gosen and Øygardsrevyenscholarene theatres in upper secondary: Idun, Merkur, Sigyn and Muninde exciting production environments voluntary teams and associations of the aesthetic lines of secondary schools throughout the higher education future universities If the application is successful, we will have an exciting and inspiring time, with preparations, implementation and – perhaps most of all – lasting cultural investment in the region. The application mentions the theme of literature and freedom of expression, film, TV, new technologies, the protection of cultural memories, the development of Mountain Site Musikkpark to a national power centre for music and art, and the invitation of opera houses in Europe to guest performances in Sandne's cultural house. It's a long one, it's a lot exciting that's in the application. The party of progress is the only party that opposes, and I allow myself to make some comments on the comment of the party of progress. The Progress Party will not use State resources to apply for the status of European Capital of Culture for fear that such status may be counterproductive to the good intentions. The party of progress cast doubt on the results of such a cultural effort and is critical of spending money to organize a people's party. Becoming a European Capital of Culture is much more than a national festival! The bulk of the money is spent on progress, not least on reducing taxes on alcohol in hundreds of millions of classes. Is it because in such cases they are safer on the results? It is a pity that the Progress Party cannot see that every crown invested in culture is a crown invested in quality of life. The European Capital of Culture application has been supported by the largest cities in Norway. It's not just a Stavanger and Sandnes project, but it's a cultural effort for the whole country. We can only remind ourselves of the value of a successful OL event ten years ago, with the good little hammer and Norway effect. Similarly, a successful project, such as the European Capital of Culture, will have a high market value for the region and for the rest of the country. But most of all, a cultural effort like this will and will provide inspiration and support to cultural actors and improve the quality of life for children and young people – yes, for the whole population. Let's cross our fingers and hope that Stavanger's application arrives. It will be a well-earned victory and a great challenge for the whole region!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16.ana.ud919e2191	The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is up. That is why the meeting of the morning is being cancelled, and Stortinget will be back at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
