ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e56	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e63	Backgrounds include: by the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, the Government of the Ministry of Labour and Administration last year promoted a proposal to amend the State Enterprise Act. The Act was adopted by the Stortinget on 19 December 2002 and entered into force on 1 January 2003. The reason was Article 61 of the EEA Agreement, which prohibits aid granted by State resources in any form whatsoever which distorts or threatens to distort competition by favouring certain undertakings, provided that it affects trade between the Contracting Parties. The amendments to the State Entrepreneurship Act removed the aid element for commitments incurred after 1 January 2003. With regard to the transitional arrangements for the obligations existing before 1 January 2003, ESA has addressed the Norwegian authorities and expressed doubts as to whether they adequately comply with the State aid rules laid down in Article 61 of the EEA Agreement. The ESA has subsequently submitted proposals for appropriate measures to Norway. ESA granted Norway a period of time until 31 July 2003 to amend the transitional provisions of the State Enterprise Act so as to abolish State guarantee liability for liabilities other than specific loan agreements. Norway has accepted the proposal for appropriate measures vis-à-vis ESA. Norway has also accepted the deadline for making the necessary amendments to the State Enterprise Act, but has taken a reservation in relation to when the case will be dealt with here in Odelstinget. The Ministry of Ownership of the State undertakings with State-guaranteed loans has assessed ESA’s requirement that a guarantee premium be calculated for each individual loan, rather than on a flat-rate basis for each company’s loan portfolio. The Ministry of Ownership has concluded that it is practicable to calculate a market premium for each loan in relation to specific loan agreements, including derivative contracts. The revised national budget for 2003 presented concrete proposals for the calculation of the guarantee premium relating to the loans of each State undertaking, applicable from 1 January 2003. Furthermore, the Government proposes to amend the transitional provisions in such a way as to express explicitly that the State is not liable for obligations relating to non-specific loan agreements, including derivative contracts relating to specific loan agreements, even if they have been concluded before the law enters into force. The new guidelines make it necessary to make changes to the Norwegian State Entrepreneurship Act. One of the objectives of the State aid provisions is to ensure that some undertakings do not achieve a particular competitive advantage over other operators. The Norwegian authorities have confirmed to ESA that proposals for appropriate measures are accepted and that the proposals that will be promoted to bring the law into line with the provisions of the EEA Agreement on State aid have been set out. It is against this background that the Government proposes to amend the transitional provisions in such a way as to express explicitly that the State is not liable for obligations relating to non-specific loan agreements, including derivative contracts relating to specific loan agreements, even if they have been concluded before the law enters into force. One is pleased that a broad majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, has joined this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e82	The background to the amendment adopted today by Stortinget is the ESA’s view that the State Enterprise Act involves a general State aid scheme contrary to the EEA Agreement. On this basis, the Government has proposed – and will have a majority – a change in the State Enterprise Act. In the opinion of SV, we are talking here about politics and not about formalities. That's how we see it, never documented any necessary relationship between ESA's enquiry on the one hand and a change in law on the other. So the reason is a little bit thin, to be careful. I believe that the ESA's enquiry for all practical and legal purposes must be balanced to a much greater extent than the Government has stated, against an exposure to the specialty of state enterprises today. That is why we do not support the amendments to the laws that are to be voted on today. The legislative change is neither lengthened, necessary nor consistent. If the Government has a burning involvement in relation to State aid schemes, it is sufficient to point out that the same government has by hand implemented general State aid, which has been implemented either with or without the ESA’s approval. It is enough to mention special depreciation rules for the oil industry in connection with the Snow White development. That's why it's not consistent for the government to refer to ESA when they run hard matches with ESA in other areas, just it smells money, or I should say oil, in the short term. What's happening is that the government here is pushing ESA forward in a case that's part of a long-term process that's about making state companies more like regular private companies. It is, as I said earlier, about politics, not about formalities. There are strong forces in turn. The process of privatisation of State power underlines this with all possible clarity. In recent years, we have seen that state infrastructure, such as the hospital, the Posten, the NSB, has become a share company. Universities have gone from being a management body to becoming a special law company, and the Clemet State Council is considering forcing them over a corporate form. Several state-owned companies are to be sold in full or in part, as part of the agreement between the Government and the Progress Party in the treatment of the ownership notification in the spring of 2002. There's something called jumping when you get a message. There are also people who jump without being told. At times, Stortinget is a hopper full of Holmenkollen, and when it comes to jumping for things that the EEA agreement imposes on us, I think of the baby food directive, the acquisition law, etc. In this case, I believe a solid telemark should be set by saying no to the proposal submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e95	Today’s proposed amendment is a continuation of the changes made to the State Enterprise Act last year, which also adapts the State Enterprise Act to ESA’s terms and conditions. The change in the law will mean that state enterprises become even more equal to state limited liability companies. It is therefore even less justified than before why one actually has a State enterprise instead of a State limited liability company. The State Enterprise Act was enacted in 1991 in connection with the transformation of State power and State network from management companies to state enterprises. It is clear that then a form was chosen which would in a way give more distance to the public and to the state, but which would at the same time ensure the social considerations that both companies should pursue. In the following decade, several state enterprises have been organised as state enterprises, precisely on the grounds that they should be given a certain degree of freedom, while at the same time fulfilling the social tasks related to their activities, such as: in Stadskog, in Enova SF and also in SIVA. What we are now doing with the changes proposed today is to erase the distinction between state enterprises and state limited liability companies. That's what the Center Party considers unfortunate. We believe, like the Socialist Left Party, that this is an unnecessary change in law, and that it is an unfortunate change in law all the time we want the organisation of state ownership that should be closer to social tasks and the state responsibility than a state corporation should be. The Central Party therefore believes that this matter should really give rise to a debate on state enterprises as ownership of the State in the years to come. We believe that if that kind of state institution is involved, it cannot really be organised through state enterprises and there is really no particular difference in relation to state limited liability companies, one should have a review of whether state ownership should be organised in another way. It is possible that in this context, too, it should be considered to go back to what is the traditional form of ownership related to state ownership, namely an administrative enterprise, which is the usual and traditional form of ownership in relation to state activities with clear social objectives. It must be said that both Statskog, Enova, SIVA and Statnett have. Our proposal in the present case therefore has a background in a desire to have a broader debate on what kind of future organisation should be of the kind of state activity that this is about. There should also be a debate that goes beyond simply adapting to the ever-increasing liberalisation of the rules of state enterprises from ESA, i.e. a broader debate whether we still see ourselves serving to organise these activities as state enterprises, or whether they should be organised in other ways. With these words, I would like to include the proposal of the centre party in the vote, and also recommend that the centre party accept the vote proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e108	The representative Arnstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see page 54]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e126	No one has asked for the floor. Odelstingen is then ready to deal with case No. 3 on the agenda. [[Votation, see page 54]] The position in that case has not been beyond the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that Odelstinget still deal with this matter now. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e146	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Centre Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that 3 replies be given after the speeches by the main speakers for each group and after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e153	Odelstingen today has proposals for a law on the concession in the case of the acquisition of real estate. The law replaces the law in force of 31 May 1974 No 19, which is then repealed. At its hearing on 23 September, the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered a judgment in Case C-452/01 Ospelt and Weissenberg. On 13 October the Committee sent a letter to the State Council of Sponheim requesting an assessment of the impact on Norway of the EU judgment. The letter with State Council Sponheim’s assessments of the impact on the Norwegian system of housing obligations is attached to the cancellation. The main features of the Government's proposed new law are: 1 that consideration of the environment and the needs of future generations shall be apparent from § 1, the provision of purpose2 that the acquisition of built-up property may take place without concession if the property is not more than 100 dean and no more than 20 dean is fully cultivated.3 that non-residents may acquire property for leisure purposes without concession4 that the acquisition of uninhabited single premises for residential or leisure houses may take place without concession if the land is either located in the area which has been outsourced to the building area in the municipal, regulatory or building plan according to the Planning and Building Act, and where the land division has been carried out or approved by the building authorities, or if the land is not more than 2 dean. The Ministry proposes that the freedom of concession in the case of such acquisitions should be subject to the construction of land within five years5 that the acquisition of other unconstructed properties may take place without a concession if the property is situated in areas regulated in the regulatory plan for non-agricultural areas or is situated in areas designated in the municipal plan for construction. The Ministry proposes that the freedom of concession in the case of such acquisitions should be conditional on the transferee not making a change in use contrary to plan6 that the requirement to live in the case of acquisitions from close relatives changes the corresponding new limit in line with the new land limit7 that the speculation clause in the applicable law § 7 is not proposed to continue8 that price controls be abolished for anything other than agricultural property. However, municipalities shall be able to continue to set the concession limit at zero. The Government also proposes to abolish the requirement of agricultural and forestry competence, as set out in the Law on Soil and Forestry. In my opinion, it is interesting that there is a majority in the vote against two fundamentally important points in the Government's proposal. The Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and SV, has rejected the proposal for a land limit of 100 deches, of which no more than 20 deches must be fully cultivated, and the proposal to lift the requirement to the municipalities of agricultural and forestry competence. Unfortunately, these parties only have a majority in the Business Committee, not in the Storting, so much indicates that the Government will have a majority in the Chamber today together with the Advance Party. It is alarming that, without any impact assessment of the previous change, the Ministry is already proposing to increase the concession limit so far. In the discussion of the agricultural notification, presented by the Central Government of the Minister of Agriculture of the Christian People's Party Kåre Gjønes, it was a majority to raise the concession limit from 5 dean to 20 dean. The Decision entered into force on 1 January 2001. The minority was then made up of the Right Party and the Advance Party. The right-hand side suggested raising the concession limit to 50 pieces. I consider it appropriate to recall that neither the consultation note nor the proposition have attempted to estimate the number of properties that will now be concession-free. Figures collected by the Norwegian Bondelag from the SSB show that over 25,500 agricultural properties will be concession-free with the Ministry's proposals. I am pleased that a large majority of the committee are involved in pointing out the possibility that municipalities have of setting the concession limit at zero. Maintaining this right is essential for the exercise of local democracy. I assume that the municipalities that choose to set the concession limit 0 are respected and that the decisions of the municipalities are not undermined by a liberal interpretation of the exemption rules at this point, as pointed out by a large majority of the committee. The Ministry has proposed removing the requirement to have agricultural and forestry competence in municipalities. The proposal appears to be unfortunate when, at the same time, the Ministry will confer jurisdiction on all concession cases and divisional matters on the municipalities. It is important that the municipalities that manage several economic and legal instruments possess agricultural and forestry competence – firstly because the municipalities of agriculture are now considering increasing transfers to municipal agricultural management in order to provide a basis for new economic development and attractive housing, secondly because low skills are likely to lead to more complaints and lower legal certainty, which in turn leads to longer processing times and the need for greater capacity and more competence at county level. Societal costs of such a development could quickly become high. Against this background, the Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and the SV, opposes the proposal to eliminate the requirement of agricultural and forestry competence. Of course, the degree of official control in the movement of real estate is an important issue, both because it affects the right of individual to dispose of their own property and because such control is important in order to achieve key policy objectives. I myself have lived a large part of my life in a building where over time there have been more and more unoccupied houses and abandoned farms. This is unfortunately the situation in too many rural communities. To facilitate the possession of properties by people who want to live in rural areas must therefore be central to our policy-making. But it is not without saying that today's concession law is an obstacle in that way. Of course, today's law is not without weaknesses, weaknesses that can and must be corrected, including: by changing its practice. I believe that there is good reason to allow for greater use of dispensation in areas where there is obviously no alternative to recreational use. And we see a lot of examples of that. It is certainly better that the properties are used for leisure purposes than that they are uninhabited and due. More attention should also be paid to the de-allocation of building stock on properties where there is a demand for additional land from nearby farms. The buildings of these properties may then be traded either as full-time dwellings or as recreational dwellings, if this is the option. There are two adjustments in today's legislation that I think will significantly improve the situation in many contexts. The proposal the government is promoting today, and which seems to be getting in touch with the Storting, raises a number of issues. There is no doubt, as is also apparent in the hearing opinions, that raising the concession limit to 100 dekar will lead to a price pressure on agricultural property. Significantly more properties are not subject to price control. When properties up to 100 decks are exempted from price control by the authorities, this will inevitably lead over time to a price pressure on properties over 100 decks. It will also hamper access to additional land, as the price of many of these properties is likely to be high, and it will be difficult for active farmers to compete at prices compared to those who want the property for purposes other than farming. Access to the necessary additional land will therefore become more difficult for business operators. I think this is going to open up extensive sales for leisure purposes, not least in the attractive areas around the Oslofjorden and on the south coast. When also very many of the farms in the West, with the size of many of them, will be concession free, I think we're going to see a significant increase in the leisure property market. This is not a good development in areas where full-time housing is undoubtedly possible and where provision should be made for people to live in full time. I think the government would have insisted on spending some more time evaluating the law that came into force in 2001, where there was a significant increase in the land limit for concessional properties, from 5 dean to 20 dean. The limit of 5 deacons had been fixed since 1974. When, as soon as two years ago, the limit was raised so strongly, I think you would have insisted on spending some more time before considering taking new steps. Finally, I would like to recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e229	The rapporteur has dealt here with the main areas in this matter. I would therefore like to focus on the views of the Workers' Party. The last time this case was dealt with was in 2000. Then it was the Bondevik I government that thought that one should raise the limit from 5 to 15 goals, while the Workers' Party, the Right and the Advance Party thought that one could raise the limit from 5 to 20 goals. This was then decided. We believe it is important to ensure that the country's scarce agricultural area is maintained. It's right in this context to point out what's in St.prp. No 1 for 2003-2004, Ministry of Agriculture budget: ‘Since the Ministry has now adopted new methods of recording the area under construction, it appears that the degradation of cultivated land is much greater than that envisaged by the Ministry in recent years. Although policies and guidelines relating to soil protection are clear, developments in the area of land degradation are alarming. If developments do not reverse, the basis for national food supply in the long term will be severely weakened.» The Ministry writes that they aim to organise a national conference on soil protection in 2004. The members of the Labour Party believe that the effect of the regulation in force from 1 January 2001 is difficult to establish, as it has only been in force for two years. In a letter dated 22 October 2003 from the Minister of Agriculture to the Committee: ‘I believe it is too early to draw conclusions on the long-term impact of changes on ownership structure and housing patterns. However, the effect on the price level of properties below the landline is an immediate consequence which must be assumed to be significantly stronger in densely populated areas than in areas where the distance to the site is large.» Our concern is both soil and price. We want the Earth to be run preferably by the owner of the Earth. It's worrying that 30-40 pst. of the areas currently operated are operated by persons other than those who own the land. Everyone knows that the earth is better kept when the land is owned by the driver. The price of land is important for those who buy the land. That is, as the Council of State says in its letter, clearly that, especially in the press areas, preferably with good soil, the price will increase when farmers want to buy more land. In an agriculture that is pushed into larger and larger units, it is important that food land does not grow again because properties become recreational dwellings. We therefore believe, as stated in the setting, that it is natural that a person comes back to the question of changed concession limits in the context of the treatment of the law of no part. In NOU 2003:26 About the right of use and the right of use the land limits of odel are also affected. There is now more time to look at the effect of regulation in 2001, and it may be reasonable to see the land limits of no part in connection with the concession limits. The new proposal adopted today by the Government is that a distinction be made between cultivated and uncultivated areas. As the Workers' Party sees it, this could lead to some larva growing, so that one can claim that one falls below the limit of 20 goals. Another challenge is to get equality in the treatment of such cases. In our opinion, there is a great danger that some municipalities will consider the area cultivated differently from others. While the law on the licensing of pig and poultry production aims at reducing the need for discretion and promoting non-discrimination, one here, in our opinion, is doing the opposite. I think the municipalities will need more resources to manage the uses that now come within an area limit of 100. We believe that one should not build more bureaucracy in relation to agriculture. In a time when a large number of out-of-service uses and units are growing, bureaucracy needs to be reduced. But then one has to shrink to the right level of administration. A press release from the Ministry of Agriculture on 8 October 2003 said that municipalities have more influence over agricultural policy. I quote from the press release of the Ministry of Agriculture: ‘The government will take action to increase local authorities’ responsibilities and scope for action in the agricultural policy. This will contribute to greater integration between agriculture, other industrial development and environmental measures.’Others:‘The draft budget underlines the need for valuable agricultural land to be better protected against redisposal...’ This is what makes it right from the point of view of the Workers' Party to say that municipalities must have agricultural competence. We have not served to increase complaints and lower legal certainty, leading to longer proceedings with a need for greater capacity and more competence at county level. These are the closest owners of the land, and those who are active in agriculture, who can also find the best solutions when problems arise in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e274	I'm addressing the minority proposal from the government parties in the setting. I think you do rural and barley-Norway a formidable bear service if you don't have the ability to see that this is really a happy day for barley-Norway. But those who don't want to change, those who want to say no to the possibility of billions of investments in Building Norway, can only continue to stick their heads in the sand and let development happen at the same rate as now, where the displacement from the village is greater than we've seen in many, many years. We know that there are an estimated 25 000 uses that will now be exempted from the applicable concession law. We see the interest in getting in and taking over, restoring, repairing, firing lights in houses in remote and displaced villages – a deportation that has again resulted in closed schools, shops, etc. We see that through the Sem Declaration and through the fact that the Minister of Agriculture has taken on board a necessary restoration work from his predecessors, there is an opportunity for us to remove the cheap selling stamp in rural areas, that through today's decision, which involves a legislative change, we can provide an opportunity for those who want innovation, innovation and alternative activities in rural areas. Then it is no use, as I record that the rapporteur does – and I record with even greater disappointment that the Workers' Party is involved – to combine what goes on the possibility of income and income increase for the farmer, and what is happening through today's very forward-looking reform decisions. If you want life, activity, innovation and innovation in rural areas, you have to make a change. More documentation is required. So we have kilometers of evidence on the table showing that today's coercive policy, which has been linked, stood behind and fought with beaks and claws for, has given nothing but stagnation in the village as a result. I don't think we need any more documentation. What we need is action. We need to revitalise and give Building Norway an opportunity, and that opportunity opens up for today. When I say that I am disappointed with the Workers' Party, I mean to remember that for a few years ago, when the Workers' Party was in the Ministry of Agriculture, they actually thought of some new thoughts and were willing to think loud in some situations, and they were in there to assess an area limit of 50 deans. But I see that now one has fallen back into the center part fold, which means that one should go on again with the red patch system, the cheap sales vignette, in rural areas, as well as not wanting to look at the opportunities that need to be put into use to get the vitalised countryside. And at the same time, they say no to the possibility that is now open, which also implies freedom of choice as to how we can contribute to the development of rural areas. I also believe that, when we look at this in an agricultural policy context, we are afraid that additional land and land use for agricultural purposes will be reduced by this necessary and important reform we are about to adopt. It is later considered that it is possible in Norwegian agriculture today to live on a use of 50-100 deches. Do we need more evidence that today it is not possible to exist with these land borders with an active, robust and living agriculture? In fact, the Minister of Agriculture has now taken seriously the task of giving the professional, executive and active farmer an opportunity to revitalise the business, provide more innovation, and above all an opportunity to raise more income and a greater basis for living off their rural properties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e289	The representative has addressed the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e294	I don't use to say that people don't know what we're doing, but sometimes I want to say it anyway. The representative Kristiansen says that we claim that it is possible to live on an agriculture of between 50 and 100 goals. We've never claimed that. This is about soil protection, taking care of the agricultural land we have. When the representative also says that with this majority decision, we will remove the price stamp in the countryside, I wonder how much more the representative thinks it is right that the farmers should pay for agricultural land that they want to buy. Since we are now going to remove the price stamp, there must be a significant increase in the price for the farmers who want to buy land to grow food on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e303	It's a well-known variant to claim that others don't understand what you're doing. I think there are a lot of hundreds of thousands of people around the village who actually don't understand what Norwegian politicians have been doing for decades, where they've made sure that the relocations go one way, from Building Norway to the center. No one is taking the initiative to override, price control, if a son or daughter from the village moves in and is going to buy an apartment in urban areas, if the price is 1, 2 or 3 million. kr for a few square meters. There is less concern than today's variation of price control, public prices, which means that there is no turnover, which means that we have a defective trading of properties, that we have estates that are large property owners in the countryside, because there is no interest, incentive or motivation to make sales andvitalisation. We have to do something about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e308	The representative Kristiansen said it was a happy day for him today. And as a warm and good person, I'm glad that Kristiansen and Right have a happy day, because it's been a very long time since they've had. So it's good to see. But I have a question as you now increase the concession limits only from 20 and then up to 100 goals. When does the next increase come from the Right, which is the largest part of the Government? When do we get a limit of 500 measure or 1,000 measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e315	I have a lot of days of joy here in this forum, and one of these is definitely going to be today. I think Ryan has to see that it's really a formidable leap in the right direction we're adopting today. First, we're going to have a maximum limit of 100 pieces. If we go back in time, we see how radical this limit is increasing. At the same time, I want to say, remember, the boundary of cultivated land is not 100 dekars. It's set to 20 deaks. And it's worth carrying on – if you haven't got it with you – on the road. Do not leave the impression that is attached to this debate, that this is an attack on Norwegian farmers, against the care of cultivated land, etc., because that is the very opposite. When we know that there may be thousands in queue who want to invest money in the countryside, I'm sure that when Ryan thinks about it, he will also feel very happy inside when the queue might turn the other way around.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e322	First of all, it is interesting to hear that Ivar Kristiansen does not share the flourishing description given by the Minister of Agriculture as late as yesterday by the situation in rural areas, where, according to the Minister of Agriculture, we still have 180,000 farms, and there is light in most of them; there are only very many who have stopped applying for production subsidies. That's what you could almost get the impression of how the Minister of Agriculture formulated himself 24 hours ago. That view is obviously not shared by Ivar Kristiansen. So it's not like you live on properties other than intensive production, you live on an area of 50-100 dekar, that's not what this case is about. What's a question about, is how do you think price formation is going to be on properties when properties up to 100 decaves are exempted from concession. Many of these properties are necessary for active farmers to try to obtain additional land. It is not least with the Right Agricultural Policy that it is necessary to increase the size of farms and thus to have access to additional land. It's raised beyond doubt that the price level will increase. My question to Ivar Kristiansen is: How are we to ensure that the level of prices on land is such that the Right's objective of Norwegian food production competing with other countries is to be achieved when the prices of soil will rise?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e332	This describes in many ways the central party's genuine, embedded fear that people are unable to care for their own interests and promote their own demands. They have confidence and genuine faith that those who are best able to care for the interests of the people in the countryside are Norwegian politicians and Norwegian bureaucrats. I believe that we now have enough evidence on the table to understand that the coercion that Enoch had in his main post, with the displaced people, the displaced people's houses, etc. As a consequence, has not given the growth and administration of activity in Building Norway for which we all want and go in. I think this is going to regulate itself excellent by itself. What represents the fear of Enoxen, I think in a short time we're going to see as a formidable success, with billions of investments in those parts of the country where we want the most increased activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e337	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e340	It is positive that the Government proposes relief in the concession obligation for the purchase and sale of agricultural properties. Many cases that have previously required concession treatment fall away, and we get freer housing with the possibility of new activity in Norwegian villages. Even though the Progress Party goes far beyond the Government and the other parties and will repeal the concession law itself because we do not want extensive regulation on property sales, we would still have hoped that the Government had moved a little further and given some more freedom to the property owners. There's reason to stress that there's been decades since 20 deaks had any meaning in agricultural terms. Similarly, since 100 covers forests and outland generated values of greater importance. Although the proposed change is likely to lead to the emergence of many small farms, it will have very little impact on agriculture as an industry. At still low borders, properties that could have been traded will rather be located and mature in large parts of the country. By continuing the concessional treatment of properties with a small area, significant procedural costs are maintained for areas that can often be relatively small in value. We have many examples of small areas being treated several times locally, then ending up as a complaint at the State Agriculture Administration. This has not helped at all to contribute to a simpler Norway. Although the Government proposes liberalisation, which will receive the subsidiary support of the Progress Party, legislation will remain very restrictive and a direct threat to the right of individuals to own and own their own property. If individual farmers are to have the freedom to determine the use of their own land and forests and then make investments, most of the restrictions on the movement of property must be abolished, as has been largely done in all other Western countries. The same applies to the provisions on living and working conditions and price regulation. The concession law is approaching 30 years, and a lot has changed in society. We have seen that the regulations have resulted in lower prices and evaporation in the ownership of Norwegian agricultural properties. This is because it costs little to sit with the properties, but you get little left by selling them, because of the price regulation. Roads, buildings and technical installations are not restored when the capital invested is not recovered. It is very unfortunate, we believe, in the Advancement Party. Therefore, we believe that this law must be repealed, so that low prices and evaporation in ownership can be replaced by opportunities at higher prices, more efficient use of resources and more residents in the country. We don't understand that it's going to be so hard to get any further in this area. And why can't the buyer and the seller decide the price of trading agricultural properties? We don't need a pricing board to decide that question. This is the case when you buy a car, a dwelling or a business both in the districts and in the central districts. Therefore, the market price should also be used for agricultural properties throughout the country. There is also little evidence to suggest that the concession law will be an appropriate tool to promote the rational use of resources in an overall agricultural policy. Whether we like it or not, the self-employed in the agricultural sector will in the future be forced to assume greater responsibility for their own income. Therefore, conditions should be set in place rather than lingering on an appropriate regulatory framework. This can be done by reducing the level of regulation that prevents agriculture from being rational and efficient, and the concession law is central to this. In fact, one might be tempted to ask: Should it not be that any democratic country should show respect for private property rights, and allow the inhabitants themselves to decide freely where they want to live or own a dwelling in this country? In this case, it is only the Progress Party which in practice shows respect for what should be completely natural democratic rights and freedoms. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party that is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e357	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e360	This is one of the most important district policy issues we have to deal with in this period. When we in SV are strongly critical of what is happening, it adds to the range of areas where we see that the districts are losing. And then we can ask ourselves, why are the districts losing? It has a very complex explanation. But one important reason is that we have more and more disconnected society from political governance. We have chosen to put ourselves on a bit for bit-thinking, where different actors, companies, limited liability companies, different agencies, are allowed to operate their policies and make their decisions without being seen in context. Then we see that rural areas in a way become losers, and that is why we have a significant dislocation from the Norwegian countryside. We believe that with this decision, which joins the ranks of many others, it will actually also be the situation when you raise the concession limit to 20 measures, or 100 measures in total, as it is now set. For what happens? Well, what's going to happen, we think, is that many of these properties, which are great properties for many to settle on, are put out for sale, and then it's those who have good money, who can afford to buy them. Of course, there may be some people in the village who have good money, for all things, and who intend to live there permanently, but I see a great danger in that many of these properties go to well-fed people who have not intended to live there permanently, but who intend to have it as a place where you recruit or have holidays. You could say that you have a nice holiday place that you use both during Easter and during the summer holidays, in itself nothing is wrong. But it's a problem for a little rural if very many of the houses there are used for that purpose. Because then there will be dead rural areas, with the effects it will have. If you see light in the houses only during Easter weekends and during the summer holidays, and it's dark otherwise this year, then it'll be slow to live there, because you don't have neighbors to go to, you don't have anyone to interact with. The representative, Kristiansen, was interested in being so innovative in these areas. Then you have to have someone to interact with who can contribute to it, and who is not just there and kisses himself in Easter weekends with Konjakk and ski tours. The biggest problem is that we probably get a lot of recreational homes in rural areas after we've made this decision, which actually shuts out people who intend to live permanently, because they simply can't afford to pay the price that will be when there's a free price on these types of properties. The other thing I want to record, and I hope that the municipalities now use it, is this with a zero concession. There are some municipalities that have used it today. I think it's about. 50. That is, you put all the property transfers out for concessional treatment. I would strongly encourage the municipalities to discuss whether or not to do so, in order to counteract some of the things I addressed in the first part of my article. So finally, with agricultural and forestry competence. We are for local maritime governance – absolutely. And we have faith that the wit is as good in the municipalities as it is in the Storting, and that you should be able to determine some of these things selves. But as the Storting now transfers so much power to the municipalities in this area, we actually think we have to send a message that agricultural and forestry competence is necessary, and that it is a requirement to do so. So you could say that there are a lot of small municipalities where it's unreasonable to demand that they sit with that competence, because they have so little administration. Yes, I agree. But then it has to be possible to cooperate between several municipalities. I have been the rapporteur in a small municipality where we had the head of agriculture and the neighbouring municipality had the head of forestry. It is assumed that both three, four and five municipalities cooperate, that inter-municipal cooperation will ensure that the necessary skills are acquired so that this matter is properly dealt with. I will end with the following: I think as I said this is a step in the wrong direction in relation to housing, because I am afraid we get much more holiday homes, and that rural instead of being a living village becomes a tourist village.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e379	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e382	The question to the representative Ryan after his posts must be whether he thinks it is worse for the village to see a renovated, maintained holiday and leisure home than to see a detached, empty, unrestood house. That's the one. Now, the representative, Ryan, complains about decoupling from political governance. Does the representative Ryan think that this area of concession law and concessional limits, most of which in this country are characterised by political governance, represents successful political governance? In the end, I would advise the representative Ryan's combination of cocoons and ski tours.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e391	The President may also recommend wine.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e394	I don't have the experience of Konjakk and skits that the representative Kristiansen has, but I'm going to take it with me. I would like to say the following: It is clear to me that it is good to set up the houses in rural areas. I don't think it's wrong. It's great if it's done -- both by people from outside and by people locally who have capital to do it. But I think the most important thing is that there are people living there. I'd rather come to a house that's all around and little maintained, where it's adults and children to talk to, than see a great palace that kind of stands and shines eleven months a year, and where there are some Mercedess swinging up once a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e401	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e404	The Christian People's Party is standing behind and is pleased with the change in the concession law that the Stortinget is going to make today, where we raise the limit on the compulsory marketing of agricultural land to 100 deches. The core point is up to 20 decaves of cultivated land. The change is, in our opinion, a step forward, which means that one can get more real price for these property, which in the next round makes it more likely that one will sell many assets that are passive today. This new group represents approximately one. 25 000 possessions. We realize that it's actually a short time since we raised the concession limit the last time. That's why I expect the department to be aware of what's going on, and to give feedback to the Stortinge in its own way about what these changes in law are leading to. It's important that we get knowledge of what's going on, so that we can possibly take a new approach in case it turns out to be relevant. In short, local democracy has given a new opportunity to get a real turnover of these properties, to get more destitute and to get owners who have an interest in taking over, and not, as today, to see that people are largely passive as owners and see that ownership is falling and growing again, and that the cultural landscape is being weakened. The reason why the Christian People's Party supports the withdrawal of the question of agricultural competence as a central requirement is that the municipalities themselves will come to that conclusion. The Christian People's Party has as its basic belief that much of the common sense also exists locally. Therefore, the Storting must increasingly limit its imposition on a local democracy that increases its competence. This is something the municipalities themselves will find out, and give them the necessary conditions, so that they can deal with these important issues and also other issues that they will now be delegated from the county. I hope that the municipalities see this as an opportunity to create a new growth in their agricultural policy. I would like to claim that the municipalities will take too little account of agriculture in the planning of municipalities and in other planning tasks they carry out. Now, when there are so many possessions that can be used more offensively and more actively, I expect the municipalities to take on this challenge and discuss how they can meet it in the best possible way – to find out more about people who want to take over these properties, and to encourage owners who today do not have an interest in building or driving them, to get them translated. In the changes we make today, there is a very clear incentive in a price formation that makes current owners see more sense in translating these properties. Otherwise, I find that one has given the municipalities a travel hood to control the construction. Many municipalities will set the condition that their property will be converted into a fixed settlement. There is a law decision that is unchanged after today's debate and decision, and I expect the municipalities to use it so that many new owners can get their dream ownership, get their cultural landscapes and get good growing-up conditions. Then this rule change is actually a gift package for those who are now in the purchasing position, but also for the municipalities, who can use these smaller estates that have limited agricultural value, but which invite and strengthen a local settlement. In short, local authorities must have a more active policy in this area. It's important that the earth is driven. In connection with these changes, it is said that property that is more than 20 coverts of cultivated land cannot be sold concessionally. Therefore, it is important that the municipalities ensure that this earth, which can now be freely translated, is driven and managed in a sensible and correct way. It is the responsibility of the existing law on the soil, and I expect the municipalities to follow suit.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e422	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e425	I want to ask the representative Gedrem a question. In the previous government in which the Christian People's Party was involved, it was Kåre Gjønnes from the same party that was Minister of Agriculture. Once you went in to increase the area limit from 5 to 20 pieces. So now – relatively few years later – you have suddenly gone up to 100 pieces. What is the reason for such a short time after a proposal for an increase is made, now it is once again growing so dramatically? Have things happened in these three years that make it natural to make such a rapid increase in the area limits?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e432	We recognize, of course, our competent former Minister of Agriculture's initiative and the decision with which the Stortinget followed in relation to an extension of 20 dean in respect of freedom of concession. As I said in my post, there is a requirement that there should be no more than 20 decaves of cultivated land if one is to be able to translate without concession in the future. And then it's 80 decares that are other areas, so less productive area. So the question is, why do we support such a radical extension of a free translation in such a short time? Some reason why I asked the Ministry of Agriculture to obtain information from the municipalities about what is happening to this change in law – we know little, I admit – is that we have a feeling that there are too many possessions that are passive today; they are buyers, but they are not allowed to buy. We get a lot of questions – I got an e-mail today early asking for help to get such a property translated. I hope and believe that this can be a positive step.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e441	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e444	Law on the concession to acquire real estate relates to the use, protection and allocation of land resources. The law therefore has a significant impact on land use in our country. I am pleased that the Government today receives support for a new law that leads to significant simplifications in relation to the rules in force, support for a law that helps to open up the market for the marketing of smaller agricultural properties, which is often deserted and abandoned, and a law that facilitates a local space for action in assessing land use. The proposal contains simplifications which will lead to approx. one third of all concession cases now fall away. From the turn of the year, it is also the case that municipalities decide all concession cases. Overall, these two changes mean that the duration of treatment may be reduced by several months in the case of a concession to the satisfaction of both the seller and the purchaser of these properties. The new law implies that the concession scheme is mainly relevant to the acquisition of larger agricultural property. The changes thus contribute to less bureaucracy and more targeted use of instruments, while facilitating local governance and impact on key local policy issues such as: the structure of use and residence. There is a steady decline in the number of active agricultural holdings. There are several reasons for this, and there was a discussion on these questions at the latest yesterday in connection with the spontaneous interview, where the undersigned participated. What is certain is that the development towards fewer and larger holdings will also continue in the coming period, as it has been in all years since World War II. Thus, traditional farming will not be able to maintain the settlement of the countryside in the future alone. At the same time, while the number of farms applying for production subsidies is decreasing, over many years the number of farms or properties has remained relatively stable at around 180 000. A majority of these properties have primarily a place of residence and as a framework for the living environment in work and in leisure. It is high time we developed a policy for these properties as well. We must have a policy for housing, not just for housing. In the Sem Declaration, the Government stated that the concession limit would be raised to 20 decaves of full-grown land and 80 decaves of other land. A central part of the bill is the follow-up. There is an increasing demand for smaller agricultural properties, and society should meet demand through the free movement of such properties. International trends also show that more and more people — and especially young people in the start-up phase — are applying from the large urban centres and to more rural environments with a little albuerom. What we are discussing today is precisely an instrument for meeting this trend at home. And it must be fundamental for all communities who experience that there are people who are applying for housing, and not necessarily just for traditional farming. It is my claim that it will be enriching for all communities to have a broader composition both in terms of activity and in terms of types of people. The key to the spread of viable communities across the country is just a more varied and thus more robust business and a less homogeneous population. The government's proposal is precisely designed to facilitate new owners who will benefit from the positive land and housing factors for purposes other than traditional agriculture. This may lead to the feeding of new blood and new ideas to the towns, thus contributing to increased local activity. It is a major misunderstanding in many environments that the Government with this proposal abolishes housing obligations and transforms 25 000 traditional agricultural properties into recreational dwellings. It is right that the national housing obligations regulated by the concession law should be eliminated by the amendment made today, but municipalities should retain the right to set a reduced concession limit, as at present. This means that municipalities can invalidate the freedom of concession for properties that are or have been used as full-year dwellings. Today there are about 70 municipalities that practise this scheme – many of those municipalities are just municipalities that have many small farms that will fall under the new concession provisions, for example. a number of municipalities in Hallingdal. Together with a general increase in the land border by acquiring built-up property, the Government, with these amendments, facilitates the provision of action spaces to municipalities and itself assesses the best solutions at local level.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e461	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e464	Both the Workers' Party and the Government are concerned about a re-growth and the decline in the agricultural area. We also share the concerns of the Council of State over a decrease in the number of uses. There are some who claim that the sea level is now below 50 pst. I don't know if that's right. It would have been okay if the Council of State also had an opinion about it. But my question is, why is it so right now, and why do you defend with such glow what is in the Sem statement, when the Left just a few years ago meant something completely different, because then they meant 15 goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e471	That's what the Left has meant all along. We now sat in government and produced a political document that was possible to be presented as proposals. That's the new thing. It is not right to disclose too much from the inner life of other governments, but the left was not in the previous government alone to believe that this was a reasonable position in what should be lifted out of the concession law. It was a compromise. Today, what is the Sem declaration's wish will be adopted, and there are many of us happy for, because it now provides an opportunity to get on the market on these properties. It's a huge problem, as Ryan's representative said, there's a lot of properties that people don't live on and that's not in use. So what do you do? Do you continue as today and leave them there, or do you try to do it so that it is interesting to sell to someone who wants to live there — perhaps some young people? We know that those who work to get small properties for young people who want to live there meet the wall. The owners say they get too low a price, so it's better to keep Grandpa's birthplace longer. That's what this law change leads to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e480	I would like to draw attention to a proposal in the setting to be submitted to Stortinget, which I shall read out. It says: ‘The Government is asked to conduct an independent study of the actual importance of the housing obligation for the settlement, other activity and development in the districts.’ There has never been any serious evidence of the real significance of living and I'm sure Sponheim as a liberal admits that it is a significant exercise of freedom to decide where to live. That should not be what the majority here says, that it is an intended effect. After all, it must be an actual effect that the obligation to live has a practical meaning and is something in reality. Several studies say that it is not. The statistical central agency has linked the agricultural register and the personal register. Anesland and Holm are known, and they conclude that the housing obligation has little meaning. So what I'm asking the Council of State is, shouldn't you have a proper, serious investigation that the place of residence actually has a meaning, before imposing on people this string of wands, which is an exercise of freedom?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e498	What I can at least promise the representative Hedstrøm is that the housing regulations will be subject to frequent debate in Norwegian society in the years to come. Not least, it has to do with the whole of the Odel Law Committee and the treatment of it, and we know that we may have the strictest rules for housing and personal living. This is the legislation by which most people are caught, because there are so many agricultural properties sold within families. When one owns the property for a while, the dwelling falls away. If I'm going to be a little personal, it was like I took over the farm I own in 1981, and in 1986 my place of residence fell. Likewise, I have chosen to live there for many years afterwards. So I think housing works in many cases. But it is clear that we are having a debate on this, and not least the relationship between a personal home and an impersonal home, which we know has also been debated by a European Court of Justice which is the basis of today's proceedings. We think we've found a good legal way to go about it, but I could say we need the debate. We also need to put more emphasis on housing, that people want to move to the countryside and do activity, than to lift their finger so much and talk about the duty they have to live there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e505	I want to ask the Council of State a question. If we look five years ahead: once we have implemented the new concession rules, and it turns out that it has led to significant sales of properties in rural areas, and this has led to most of these properties being used for leisure purposes, is the Council satisfied with the decision taken? Or, to be more precise, is the Council of State satisfied if such sales are made, even if it goes to leisure homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e513	There's at least one thing I'm sure of, and it's that if we let five years go by with the old tools we've had until now, without anything happening, the silence and the darkness are going to sink over very many Norwegian villages, not least in Inland Norway. So something has to happen. I believe in this instrument that this will contribute to the sale of more properties. Young people are also moving to the towns today, but they are thus doomed to build on an exploding land on a small goal, while they are actually moving to the village to get some living space around them. And having an opportunity to make living space out of these small farms, I believe. The government and the parties in the government believe very much in local democracy, and that people have to take hold of their own development locally. That's why we think it's necessary to have tools to use. Therefore, I also recommend to those I talk to in many places, to take advantage of the possibility of using local housing. This is a step forward, and not a step in the wrong direction, as Inge Ryan said. In that case, his steps are backwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e525	The cord shift is therefore over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e530	We recognize that there will be a majority in this case. Then it becomes important to see what is experience, both from what was in 2001 and what is now happening. We can have a little bit of height thinking about it, not least with the background that the government is also very clear about the fact that the area re-grown is a big problem, that the cultural landscape is also re-grown. How are we going to do something about e.g. 30-40 pst. of our area is driven by someone other than the owner of the land? We know that people don't dig, they don't lime – so the quality of the area goes down. The wish must be that those who operate will eventually own the earth. The representative, Enoxene, said that one sees a greater possibility that what is cultivated area must be sold. It's difficult because of ownership. But we can have some thoughts about how we're going to turn it more against those who run the earth, also get it owned, and imagine an opportunity for those who own and don't run, but hire away, the seller. I know it's a difficult issue, but it would have been okay if the council had had an opinion about how we're going to see this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e539	It is true that the Council of State called from Bondevik I’s inner life, that at that time there were different perceptions of where the concession limit should be set, and he has given a new example of the consequence of the replacement of the Senterpartiet with the Right in Bondevik II. I am proud that in many contexts the Centre Party has been a buffer against the negressive admiral of the blessing of liberalism that many profess, and it is perhaps in its place to point out that being liberal is something other than being a liberalist. I would also like to add that in the previous government, I signed myself as a spokesman to allow the dissociation of significantly larger plots than what has been common, plots of both 10 and 15 dekars, something else the previous government also arranged for. I believe it would have been well on the way to meeting the wishes expressed by the Council of State. Because there is one thing I agree with the Council of State in, and that is that those who want to live in rural areas should be given an opportunity to do so. Provision should be made for this to be possible. At the same time, however, such a desire must be able to go hand in hand with the desire to take care of Norwegian agriculture and the other concerns that we, as politicians, must take care of. I also think, as I've also made myself a spokesman for several years, that one way to go might be in some cases to split up larger usages into many small ones, so that those who want to live will have the opportunity to do so. But I have a wish for the Council of State to comment on a matter. Price control is now suspended for anything other than agricultural property, and in practice, it is likely that property that is concession-free will not be subject to price control. I want to challenge the Council of State to give an assessment of this against the access that municipalities now have to set the area limit zero for concession. When I ask about this, it is of course with an unknown case from South Africa fresh in memory, the well-known Lillesand case. How will the Council of State deal with an appeal from a seller who is not satisfied with the price he receives from a potential buyer who intends to meet municipal housing requirements on the property in relation to the buyer who wants to use the property for leisure purposes, and offers a much higher amount? Would the Council of State, as in the Lille sands, have allowed prices to outweigh the local decisions taken, thus helping to undermine the ability of municipalities to set the concession limit at zero?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e550	Aud Gaundal is raising the question of greening. It's a challenge. I think some of the biggest recycling challenges and problems we have today, just the many mini-use that are not inhabited, where the use might have an owner who through inheritance must have this, but who has a smaller involvement with the property. I think most of us know a lot of these properties, and there's an activity going on in many municipalities just to map that type of property and try to find owners and get them to sell. It's a significant commitment from idealistic small-user teams, I see SV representatives are engaged, and there's a lot of projects. Conferences are held on how we can get people who want a small use to get hold of it. They meet the wall because it is not possible to get a price that makes it a point for the owner to sell it. I think blood is often thicker than a low amount. A price development that makes it possible to get a reasonable price, five-six-eight-nine hundred thousand, maybe over a million, for people who are used to buying a series house around Oslo for a couple million dollars, can be an opportunity. By paying a little bit for it, one will also have an exposure to the property. Then one cannot afford or interest in turning his back on the property or letting it grow again. Then you might find a solution with your neighbor in running the earth, if that's a reasonable solution. I hope many choose to drive it myself. Even if you don't run traditional agriculture, it's possible to have a lot of good life with 20 decks of land and a hobby horse and other things. It will actually enrich agriculture and the countryside if we can achieve that we get more of those who live for the farm, and not just those who live off the farm – and ever larger farms. We don't want any tools to force them or otherwise get them to sell these properties. I hope they're going to run them themselves, the up to 20 dean they needed, and I think a lot of people will come up with good and sensible solutions with their neighbors to get a decent operation. Soil law is going to apply to these properties as well. Our soil protection rules are going to be as strict for these properties as they are for other properties. Earth is to be held in claim in this country, whether you buy little land or you own a lot of land. So to the Enoxens challenge to me. Let me first say that I don't see that the difference between liberalism and liberalism is between 20 and 100 dekar, it's probably a number of more complicated reasoning that needs to be done. However, the rules are still mandatory by the municipality's legislation, so it should not be the same as taking money from someone. One is going to get the price it costs to buy a property that someone wants to live on. I hope it can be sold so much of these properties that the municipalities have experience with what is the right price rental for a small use with a dwelling obligation. Then one also has a certain claim to get a price that is not too far from that level. That is what the Lillesand case was about, it was not possible to get a price as for other properties used for the whole year's dwelling. That's when our code happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e571	I also agree with the Council of State that those who want to live on a small farm of 20 deer and not be farmers, but live the good life in the countryside, run by horse or whatever it may be, and reap the land itself, are a blessing to rurals. Also at that point, we agree with the heart. There's something I've been talking about for years. But there are several ways to achieve this goal. I actually don't think we disagree on the goal at all, but we disagree on the means, not least the sum of instruments that are needed to achieve these objectives. I would like to remind you that, following an initiative from the previous Bondevik government, a web portal was created, among other things. in Telemark, where small-scale use is offered for sale – a measure that has been particularly effective and how many small-scale uses have been put on the market, precisely because an organised way of doing so has been found to facilitate such use. There is a cooperation between different organisations and the state that has been successful. But that was not the reason why I asked for the word again. I cannot perceive the Council of State in any other way in the answer he gave me, than that if a buyer who wants to use a property for leisure purposes offers a bid that is significantly higher than those received from buyers who want to use the property for all-year residence, the price will be higher than the municipality's requirement to comply with the obligation to live. I am not able to perceive the Council of States in any other way. The Council of State makes this a question of price, and if the price difference is large enough, an appeal will result in the agreement of the person who has given the highest price and will not comply with the obligation to live. Is that how you understand? And if that is the case, there is a strong undermining of municipal autonomy, which should be facilitated in this context. There is good reason to fear that, especially in the attractive areas close to the major cities of the eastern region and not least along the south coast, we will have a rather formidable price pressure on these properties, not only for residential purposes but also to the greatest extent for leisure purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e580	No, it is that in a municipality that takes up a dwelling, there shall be a dwelling on that property. But then it must also be possible for the seller to find a buyer who wants to maintain the dwelling and who is willing to pay a price for such a property that corresponds to the price of an all-year dwelling in the area. It's always dangerous to use numerical examples, but I'll try a few simple numbers. Let's say that the kind of small usage we're talking about here establishes itself at a price level of about 1 million. kr as a full-year resident. There are examples of three-four-five of these being sold in recent years. Then there's one such property for sale, but for different reasons no one is willing to city more than a couple of hundred thousand, perhaps under it, for exactly that property to live there permanently, while there are many cabin buyers who are willing to city 2 million. kr for the property. It can then be shown that the annual housing price for this type of small farm is 1 million. We operate with a parallel case that requires an assessment of whether you can then order him to give away the property for NOK 200000, if you are not able to find a buyer who is willing to use it as a full-year dwelling. It's kind of a legal certainty that the individual owner doesn't have to say giving away a property. But in my opinion, it would be to perceive as a kind of safety valve and should not undermine the dwelling obligation in any way. In this context, the possibility for municipalities to use housing obligations is intended to apply and be an effective instrument. I took the initiative myself in my own municipality in its time, because I believe it should be an active and positive instrument to use for the purpose of the mouths, in order to ensure that small consumption becomes annual dwellings. It's going to be my call through the party I have the pleasure of leading, that our people around are going to try to use this tool to make sure that there are all-year-old homes for the many small uses.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e591	I just want to thank the Council of State for that clarification, because it is a very important clarification in relation to the possibilities of municipalities to maintain a real concession limit of zero. With what the Storting is doing today, it's very important that that concession limit be maintained and that it be respected. It is clear that when the definition is that the price rental is to be in line with the market price in the whole-year dwelling area, it will be crucial for the treatment of these cases. If then – as in the Minister of Agriculture’s example – one who has a property with a market value of 1 million. kr, receives a bid of 10 million. kr as leisure property, and it is one who will discharge the obligation to live, who will pay 1 million. kr, thus paying the market price, the bid will be respected and the concession threshold will be respected, even if the owner may risk a loss, in this case of 9 million. Do you really want to delete this item? I see that the Minister of Agriculture is nodding, and that is a very important clarification in relation to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e596	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Odelstinget has now come to the handling of case No. 4 on the agenda. [[Footing, see page 55]] The cases dealt with here do not have doctors in the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. However, under Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Odelstinget should nevertheless deal with this matter no. – No objection has come against the President’s proposal, and it is settled.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e616	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Labour Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from the main speakers for each group and from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e625	This case concerns the treatment of a new law on the regulation of pig and poultry production, Ot.prp. No 94 for 2002-2003, which is to replace the Law of 13 June 1975 on the Regulation of Acquired Livestock. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, has noted that the Government wants to make the legislation more transparent. The Committee agrees with the evaluations, including: reducing the need for discretion, promoting non-discrimination and reducing management's resource use. The aim of the law is to regulate the structure of pig and poultry production. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, agrees, stressing that, without a concession, a given situation would arise in which production would be concentrated on few and large units. I assume that the Progress Party will explain its views on the matter. The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are opposed to the Government's proposal to remove the «geographical spread of production» from the purpose of the Act. We are aware that the reason is that it should no longer be possible to apply for a derogation for increased production beyond the concessional limits. Several of the hearing bodies are also negative in their removal. According to the views of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, it is to remove this intention from the purpose paragraph a signal from the Government that the channelling policy in Norwegian agriculture is now falling. We believe it is important that one still insists that there should be agriculture throughout the country, and that one, as it has now been, has a conscious strategy on where it is desirable for the different productions to be. There are many schemes in Norwegian agricultural policy that allow one to influence where production is going to be. Therefore, the «geographical spread of production» must not be removed from the purpose paragraph. We in the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party know that the Government will have a majority in place with the Advancementpathy in this matter. We regret that, not least we would like the Christian People's Party to continue to be on our side in Norwegian agricultural policy. This majority therefore proposes that the purpose paragraph should continue to state ‘the geographical distribution of production’. As regards the regulation of the regulation of 11 April of this year, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of all members of the Progress Party, shall take the amendments for information. There has been a high activity against Stortingen from the industry, especially in pig and chicken production, in order for the Stortingen to increase production also for producers above the concession threshold. The majority of the Committee agrees with the Government that these producers have had a competitive advantage over many years. A second majority, all except the members of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, refer to the experience gained in the last time the concession limits were increased. As the Government points out in the proposition, a certain overproduction and fall in prices may occur, but prices are likely to become more stable in the long term. This majority also emphasises, as the Council of State writes in its letter to the Committee of 27 October 2003, that the law does not aim to regulate production in relation to the market but is intended to provide a basis for structural regulation. This majority is also aware that there is a desire in the hearings to include the concession limits in the law. We understand the views, but believe that the law regulates the structure and that it should not regulate the concession limits. This majority thus subscribes to the Government's proposals at this point. A majority, all except the members of the Progress Party and the SV, also agree with the Government's proposal that the concession law should not be used as a penalty for infringements of animal protection legislation. We underline that the Stortinget has treated St.meld. No 12 for 2002-2003 on animal husbandry and welfare. This majority would strongly stress the need to avoid animal tragedy and would point to a comprehensive review of the Animal Protection Act by the Government, inter alia. with a view to avoiding animal Tragedies. On this basis, we end up in the government's assessments. This majority also refers to the letter of 12 June 2003 from the Minister of Agriculture, where it appears that the draft law of the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3 has been drawn up incorrectly. The errors have been corrected by legislative proposals. Finally, I recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e661	This presented a new law on the regulation of pig and poultry production is a legislative proposal which Right welcomes and which is consequently behind. It is in line with the Sem Declaration, and it is consistent with the Government's work on a simpler regulation and makes the legislation more transparent at the same time. It also enters the Council of State and the Ministry of Agriculture in the last two years to make Norwegian agriculture more forward-looking and more robust. Even if we've had a development in the last two decades where transfers to agriculture, as a percentage of the state budget, have been reduced from about 7 pst. to about 2 pst., progress towards a more robust Norwegian agriculture is still needed. The proposal for a new law on the regulation of pig and poultry production will contribute to this. There is also a good reason to point out that in the new regulation of pig and poultry production, it is advisable to move from regulating the number of animals introduced to regulating the number of animals placed on the market and slaughtered. This makes it easier for producers, and it reduces the use of resources in relation to the population's control of the legislation. For the Right, there has been a point in itself to consider whether there is a whole need to regulate pig and poultry production. There are economies of scale in the feed-based animal husbandry. Without concessional regulation, output would probably accumulate on few and large units, which would give a profit purely economically. However, potential cost reductions are limited, as the price of power feed based on Norwegian cereal policy is decisive for the level of costs. Even if Norwegian agriculture is under pressure at the time, it will be under pressure. Because of WTO negotiations and border trade, the Right believes that the proposed adaptations to concession limits are far from adequate in this regard. The best must not be the enemy of good. Some producers with production above the concessional threshold have been asked to be able to expand their production as well. Right has carefully evaluated these recordings. On the basis of a holistic assessment, and on the basis of a desire to ensure a broad majority of this change in pig and poultry production, we have fallen to the conclusion that it would not be reasonable to increase these producers’ production now. One might also point out that these producers have had a competitive advantage over other producers for several years. A majority of the Committee consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre are negative to the objective of geographical dissemination of production being taken out of the legislative proposal. Like the Government, the Right would point out that the purpose of the law is to regulate the structure of pig and poultry production. In practice, geography has not been taken into account in the concession award assessment. Both in relation to current administrative practices and to the proposal for a new law, the amendment does not entail any change in practice. Furthermore, this type of production is relatively geographically concentrated, with Rogaland, Østfold and Nord-Trøndelag as the main production groups. With the exception of Nord-Trøndelag, this is not the case for extensive district production. Finally, I would like to say that, for its part, the Right Members hope that the Council of State will continue to work to make Norwegian agriculture more competitive. Otherwise, on behalf of the minority in the Committee, I will address the proposal of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e676	The representative of Erlend Nornes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e679	The government’s proposal for a new law to replace the existing law on the regulation of pig and poultry production is a step in the right direction towards more efficient and rational operation. The proposal to abolish plant capacity regulation is a sensible contribution to simplification because new production systems are in the process of being developed. Furthermore, the regulation on an increase of the concession limits by approx. 50 pst. for all the animal species concerned, be positive. Embellishment of the concession rules will be an important contribution to reducing the cost of pig and poultry production. Opening up larger flocks can provide a basis for more efficient use of resources. This can contribute to lower commodity costs for the processing industry in the next round and make them more competitive. Hopefully, this will also benefit consumers in terms of lower food prices. When it was said, we had hoped, however, that the government would go further in its proposals. Of course, it's positive with an increase of 50 pst. by the concessional limits, but at the same time a great injustice is being done against those who currently have a concession but who are not given the opportunity to increase their production under the new regulation. This group includes 10 pst. by the producers but represent far more in production. The Party considers that it is not reasonable for production-efficient flocks to be excluded from the conversion of legislation. We are disappointed that the Government does not add up to the possibility of an increase for all farmers, both above and below the concession limit. We had also hoped that there would be transparency for operating communities in pig and poultry production, as it has been established in milk production. Both the National Association of the Poultry Industry and the National Confederation of the Meat Industry have stated that the law should open up forms of co-operation in production beyond the concessional limit. This would be an important contribution to increasing the professionalisation and skills-building of practitioners. It could also make it easier to pass on to actors who do not want to be large-scale but who see the interoperability as an opportunity to exploit existing resources and knowledge in a more efficient and profitable way. The lead view of the Party is that there shall be no production-limiting concession rules. It is because these types of concession schemes can act as a barrier to establishment and inhibit the efficient use of possible production capacity. Without restrictions, livestock production will be the most appropriate way of achieving a more competitive livestock production and processing industry. Industrious farmers will no longer be prevented from being creative and not using their business intentions and willingness to make extra efforts. Therefore, the Progress Party considers that there is no need for regulation of pig and poultry production as in current legislation or as proposed in new legislation. There is no need for other rules in the feed-based livestock population than those resulting from health, environmental and safety requirements. These considerations, such as: the protection against pollution from animal production is ensured by other legislation. Against this background, we disagree with the Government's proposal, which facilitates widespread production on many units and with limited production scope. Nevertheless, we will give subsidiary support to the proposal, in order to ensure a majority in favour of an increase in concession limits. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party, referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e696	The representative Øystein Hedstrøm has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e699	We in SV agree with the content of this law, and we think it is good that we get the regulations that it is set up to do. But we have some concerns about what you're already sketching about the regulations, and this is about concession limits. We believe that some of the strength we have in Norway is that we focus very much on safe food. We focus on this with small-scale operations, which not least the Minister of Agriculture has been the exponent for the two years he has been sitting in the chair. The fact that these boundaries are still being drawn is considered to be of concern from an animal welfare perspective, but also from a food safety perspective. We think that when we get too large a herd, it's much easier to get infected, to get disease, and that this comes out of control. Now I'm not saying that large crews mean that they're more vulnerable to damage, and the smaller ones, but it's more difficult to have an overview when you get too large crews. On the animal welfare side, we know that there is good animal welfare for pigs today. Here you have been one of the leading industries in developing good animal welfare for your animals. But the second thing we're talking about here, poultry, is the opposite. It was probably one of the areas where we were too short in the treatment of animal welfare messages, and where we could have actually done much more in relation to thinking both around drifting and around other measures that would give poultry a much better animal welfare. The fact that you're now increasing the boundaries here, we think we're in the opposite direction to what you should have done in these areas. We are therefore sorry. So to the proposal that lies here from the Central Party in relation to the Stortinge to deal with this regulation. We think that's interesting. We got into that issue at the very end of the discussion, so we haven't been on that proposal. But that the Storting should have the opportunity to deal with this, we'll decide if we want to vote in favour, when we go to voting in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e708	The Christian People's Party is in favour of today's proposal to confirm an increase in the production capacity of pigs and poultry with 50 pst. This represents a necessary adaptation to an emerging market, and is a positive challenge for approx. 8 000 Norwegian agricultural producers. It is an important production that will now increase its potential to become a more profitable production. On a trip around the country, the impression is that there is a strong will to exploit this potential for future-oriented production before light meat and egg production. In many municipalities, for example: Finn Island in Rogaland, becomes a surprise when you see all the new buildings that stand and shine as an example of new optimism in agriculture. A strengthened productive capacity will emerge in the coming years. There has been a relatively strong commitment to the industrial committee from producers who have now expanded their concession to extend their production limits accordingly, or at least to extend their current production rights. We might understand this wish, but the reason why at least the Christian People's Party thinks it's wrong to do this is that one now gets an expanded production capacity for that part of the producers that need it the most. When expressions are made that there is a visible production increment on and off, for example. with an increase in September in pig production of 5 pst., there is a kind of warning that the increase that can be taken on the market is not unlimited. Therefore, we have not found it right to comply with this request, but we see that those who now have an extended concession will still have an advantage in the future in being able to allocate the costs to a larger production unit, which they will of course also be able to retain. When it comes to the expression «geographical spread», whether it should be in the purpose of the law, we in the Christian People's Party believe that it is totally unnecessary. Since the law states so clearly that no more concessions are to be given, neither can a person assign a cork to central or district areas or distribute it. The idea that this production should spread and benefit many parts of the country is right, and it supports the Christian People's Party. It also happens in practice. Even if there is a concentration in Rogaland and North-Trunde Teams in particular, and also in other parts of the country, we find it pointless to lay down such a rule in this concession law, as no new concessions are to be granted. Against this background, the Christian People's Party will only encourage producers to benefit from the need to meet the new production framework correctly and create a new possibility for agriculture to meet new production targets. We look at other areas where legislative changes do not concern today, that there are certain problems in meeting market requirements, among other things. in the case of beef. For this reason, we hope that agriculture in all areas where there is increased production potential is exploited, so that Norwegian producers can meet the market needs of Norway today. This is a good example of agriculture being able to absorb and raise income within important production areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e719	The purpose of the Animal Concession Act is to maintain a differentiated structure of use by distributing the feed-based livestock production to family-based farms. However, we have seen, not least throughout the 1990s, that there has been significant structuralisation in the power-feed-based production. As the Minister of Agriculture himself has said in various contexts: the market for agricultural products is largely given. And it says that raising the concession limit will automatically lead to a reduction in the number of uses over time, as the market is limited. There will be a significant change in the structure of this industry. Taking into account the pressure, not least the agricultural co-operation is being subjected to, with more competition from other actors who would like to establish themselves in heavy areas of the market, this will lead, in some cases over time, to further centralisation in the production of pigs and poultry. It may be worth noting that the nearest chicken slaughterhouse from northern Norwegian producers – my acquaintance – is actually located in the Trondheims area. This suggests that, for many reasons, it would be difficult to maintain a district-based production if the slaughterhouse structure were to disappear. Swine teams have a very important role to play in the slaughterhouse structure, pointing out, inter alia, that: County of Northland. And further centralisation will put many of these slaughterhouses at risk. There is therefore a significant risk that increasing use will have consequences for other parts of the Norwegian agricultural industry as well. There is therefore good reason to be cautious about what is being done in relation to changes in the concession limits. The Party shall take the regulatory changes made on 11 April 2003 for information, but shall, in the context of the examination of this matter, propose that limits be laid down by law for the production of pigs and poultry, so that in the future the Storting will be given a hand on the steering wheel in the context of changes to these limits, as opposed to what has now been the situation. On this basis, I refer to the proposal of the Central Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e730	The representative, Odd Roger Enoxen, has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e734	The government has at Ot.prp. No 94 for 2002-2003 a proposal for a law on the regulation of pig and poultry production. The law shall replace the applicable law on the regulation of acquired livestock. The purpose of the Act is to distribute the power-feed-based production into several units in order to maintain a differentiated structure of use based on family farming. This, in turn, will help to prevent development towards industrialised production. In accordance with the Government's work on simpler legislation, the aim has been to simplify and make the law more transparent. Furthermore, emphasis has been placed on the new law to contribute to reducing the need for discretion, thereby promoting non-discrimination and reducing the resource use of management. The proposal for a new law proposes to abolish the regulation of plant capacity. This is in line with the need to adapt the legislation to developments in livestock production. In order to make the legislation more transparent, it is proposed to legislate on the conditions under which the concession will be granted. The new rules will reduce the need for the exercise of discretion, thus helping to promote equal treatment and reduce resource use in administration. In order to facilitate the detection by the administration of cooperation and interests contrary to the law, we propose that producers themselves demonstrate that there is no conflict with these rules. Furthermore, it is proposed that concession rights should be waived if there have been no acquisition teams of pigs or poultry on the property in the last 10 years. Finally, we suggest that those who produce beyond the concession limit or grant a concession must pay a standardised compensation to compensate for the damage. This shall contribute to ensuring compliance. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee proposes that there should continue to be a «geographical spread of production» in the purpose paragraph, thus opposing the Government's proposal at this point. I maintain that the law cannot be said to have a district profile in addition to the fact that structural regulation itself contributes to geographical diversification by dividing production into several units. Furthermore, it is pointed out that we have experience that such a wording in the legal text leads some users to believe that a particular geographic location of production can be an independent basis for obtaining a concession to produce beyond the concessional limits. This refers to the fact that, according to the bill, new concessions are generally not to be granted. Therefore, in order to prevent misunderstandings, the text of the law should not attribute to purposes that would not have any practical significance. I am aware that some of the largest pig producers in this country have taken the initiative before the Committee to increase their production proportionately as much as the increase in the concession threshold. I am very pleased that the majority of the Committee here agrees with the Government's decision that these producers should not be allowed to expand their production further. These are producers who have had a competitive advantage for many years. With the raising of concession limits, the number of concessions has decreased significantly and greater equality of competition between manufacturers has been facilitated. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee maintains the Government's proposal that the concession limits continue to be set out in the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e760	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e763	We are facing quite major challenges in agriculture, the WTO is one area, the EU can be another challenge. It's now eight years since we last regulated concession limits, i.e. in 1995. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Minister of Agriculture realise that there can be regulation in the near future, or is the regulations we have now made in front of the WTO, good enough – so better lead was rather than soon?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e770	The Ministry of Agriculture has no plans or figures on its table other than the concession limits known through the treatment today. I also think that there is a basis for adding that with the concession limits and the sizes that we can get on production within the concession limits we now get, significant parts of the economies of scale have been taken out. They give robust sizes. What distinguishes us from comparable producers is primarily the power feed price. And there is Norwegian channelling policy, which is a key element of agricultural policy, which means that cereals and power supplies are about twice as expensive in Norway as in other countries. If we had the sizes we're talking about here within the concessional limits, we had the same price of power feed as, for example. Danish producers, would not have been the difference between the final products, because we are facing robust and proportional sizes in both pig production and poultry production.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e777	It is stated in the proposition that if it is realised, it provides a basis for lower prices. The government responded in a reply that robust devices could now be developed. Concession limits are increasing, and those that are given the opportunity to do so are likely to have more rational and efficient production. There is well reason to believe and reason that they should also have the opportunity to increase their profits or income opportunities. At the same time, however, the consideration of lower food prices must be satisfied. What consideration will the Council of State take here? And what is the significance of the margin studies to be carried out now at all stages of the value chain in order to ensure both of these considerations? We need lower food prices because of international agreements now when the EU is expanding, with increased price pressure on Norwegian food, etc. – it will register automatically.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e782	There is no doubt that the cost and cost of poultry production and pigmeat production may be the most decisive point in relation to the final price and how competitive it will be in relation to our competing countries. The main component of the cost of these productions is the cost of power feed, and it is much higher in Norway, because it has been politically desired. But precisely because there is very active competition in the links above, we see that it is possible to buy pork not least in the border areas at very low prices, because competition works – which is the second most important instrument in the future. Then it's also nice to be able to say that even in such a situation it's the pork producers that have come out economically best in recent years and have had significant income increases, and that may be some of the most professional and efficient farmers we have. And the fact that we give them these opportunities today, and also follow the competition and margins, will help us to be able to get this at reasonable prices even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e789	I know that the Council of State has been a driver of animal welfare. And I believe that a very good job was done when the animal protection message was presented. In my previous post I mentioned that I am concerned about poultry. How does the Council of State assess the increased concession limits in terms of the possibilities for improving animal welfare also for poultry? Will these increased concessional limits being adopted lead to better animal welfare, or will they make it even more difficult to have good animal welfare for this animal category?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e796	Regardless of the size of each producer, animal welfare shall be improved in the future as a consequence, inter alia. the treatment of animal welfare messages made in this house. There are many measures that will be taken to improve animal welfare. I agree with the representative that we have important challenges in the poultry sector in terms of animal welfare. We are working here to find new ways of operating that will enable us to improve animal welfare, and that is a challenge. There are several producers who have told me that by being able to get a little bigger, you can spend more of your time concentrating even more on these productions, and then living off these productions alone. This allows us to use both more capital and investment and also more human focus of the individual producer to improve animal welfare. There may be mechanisms that turn in. In any case, it is definitely not the case that these changes that are being made today are going in a negative direction in terms of better animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e803	I'll just say that SV wants to support proposal No. Three, from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e808	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 59]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e821	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e828	During the debate, Ms Arnstad, on behalf of the Centre Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking for an assessment of a future organisation of State Forest SF, SIVA SF, Statnett SF and ENOVA SF. Such organisation should be subject to the application of the substance of the State Enterprise Act § 4 and § 51 and § 53.» This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e861	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e874	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party here to also vote against it – it is nodded.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e888	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e962	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e972	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e979	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 3, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party, The President takes first of all proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to conduct an independent study of the actual importance of the housing obligation for the settlement, other activity and development in the districts.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The President will first vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘AOT.prp. No 79 p.m. [[Concession Act]] - Not acceptable. B Adoption of the Law repealing the Law of 31 May 1974 No. 19 on the concession by acquisition of immovable property is repealed.IILaw decision enters into force on 1 January 2004.» [[Concession Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e1025	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e1032	The vote metals shall then be 63 against the proposal and 11 for. With these figures, the proposal is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e1338	To some of the paragraphs there is an alternative proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 4, first paragraph, point (c) 4 shall be replaced by the following:4. built-in property, not more than 100 dekars, where no more than 20 dekars of the area are fully cultivated.§ 5, second subparagraph, first sentence, shall be replaced by:In the acquisition of agricultural and forestry property with a total area of more than 100 dekars, or where more than 20 dekars are fully cultivated, the freedom of concession referred to in paragraph 1 shall be that of the first subparagraph. 1 the transferee settles on the property within one year and resides and operates it for at least five years.§ 9 A shall be deleted.§ 23 shall be replaced by the following:1. The law of 21 May 1965 on forestry and forestry is amended as follows: the third paragraph of Section 4 is deleted. [[amendments to other laws]] In Law 12 May 1995 No. 23 in the case of soil, § 4 is deleted.» An alternative is to vote between this proposal and the respective paragraphs of the vote. The President will draw attention to the fact that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the vote, while the Progress Party has announced that they will support the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e1386	The Progress Party has announced that it will now subsidize the suspension accordingly. The other paragraphs, paragraphs and sentences of the option are added.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e1396	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e1406	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e1413	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Erlend Nornes on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, proposal No. 2, by Mr Hedstrom on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, proposal No. 3, from Odd Roger Enoksen on behalf of the Center Party The President will first vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘AOT.prp. No 94 [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e1468	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 1 is replaced by the following:Section 1 Purpose The purpose of the law is to facilitate the spread of pig and poultry production into several units by regulating the scope of production of each producer.’; Here, too, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the vote, while the Progress Party has announced that they will support the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e1501	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 2 shall be replaced by the following: Without a concession from the ministry, no one can produce a greater number of pigs or poultry than the Stortinget has determined. The Ministry may prescribe the scope of the concession obligation, the application procedure and the procedure. Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The concession limit for pig and poultry production is set at: Chickens for fattening: 120 000Calcony: 30 000Hones: 7 500breeding sows: 105Slaughter piglets: 2 100§ 2, second subparagraph, shall become the third subparagraph.’ The Socialist Left has made it clear in the debate that they support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e1627	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e1637	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-13-lower.ana.ud216e1648	There is no record.
