ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e38	The representatives of Beate Heieren Hundhammer, Finn Kristian Marthinsen and Per Ove Width, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e61	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 10 minutes each, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e72	With the ‘Recipe for a Healthier Norway’ message, the Government has put society and individual responsibility for preventing health problems and disease at the centre of attention. The Public Health Communication addresses the health challenges we face in the future and draws up goals and strategies for the next decade. An overall committee appears that a policy that takes responsibility for influencing future needs and challenges and tries to reduce future suffering is both beneficial and necessary. By preventing more, we can repair less. The Committee agrees unanimously with the overall objectives of public health work and broadly supports the main signals given by this Communication. As the rapporteur, I would like to pay tribute to the fact that a final rate of prevention is being put on the agenda and that it is really a great health policy. I am also pleased that women's health has been given such a great place in the communication, and I thank my colleagues in the Committee on the constructive and important input in that context. The message itself is well-educated, with its own boxes for facts and information, and is quite clear on which actions and strategies the Government will be investing in. It makes it easy and easy to figure out. Before giving someone a prescription, one should have made a diagnosis. A public health report made in 2002 says a little about the starting point and how it stands in Norway. A little look back shows that in the 20th century we have had an improvement in our health without equal. Life expectancy increased by 30 years. By the last century, every tenth child died before it was a year old. Each other death was caused by epidemics and pestilences. Many died of infections, hunger and poverty. Nutrition improved. We got vaccines, and it ended with attractive work rooms, hard floors and poor ergometric jobs and the heavy promises. But with prosperity, life - style diseases such as cancer, cardiovascular diseases and type 2 diabetes came as the most common. The outlook for the future shows that mental illness and depression are becoming important health problems. The World Health Organization also stresses this and states that in Western, developed countries, there are conditions that are closely related to lifestyles and lifestyles, which dominate. Disorders caused by obesity, physical inactivity and dissatisfaction are increasing. Tobacco, alcohol, obesity, high blood pressure and high cholesterol levels alone account for at least one third of the disease burden. Smoking is our greatest single cause of illness and early death. Physical inactivity is becoming our new major public health problem. One of four Norwegian children spends more than four hours in front of the computer and TV screen each day. The latest diagnosis shows that there are social inequalities in lifestyle and health behaviour with consequences for health. While the age of life at the Winner is five years above the national average, the districts of Oslo east have five years lower life expectancy. When differences follow clear social patterns, it is not primarily the individual's conscious choices that lie behind them. These are the conditions under which people live. It is the Government's aim to reduce health inequalities between social teams, ethnic groups, women and men. It is the first time that a Norwegian policy document highlights social health differences. A separate action plan on social inequalities will be drawn up during 2003. The message gives us four prescriptions. Firstly, it should be easier to take responsibility for their own health by facilitating healthy and important choices in society. During the hearing, many suggested that primary school students should have at least one hour of physical activity every day, but not as more gymnastics, to mitigate the requirement for mastering and performance. An overall committee asks the Government to facilitate more daily physical activity for the students. Our physical surroundings should invite motion, play and activity. Road installations and safe school roads must enable cycling and walking. One knows that half an hour with fast times every day can have a great health effect, which in turn can lead to a decline in sick leave and disability. This approach shows many good examples of culture providing better quality of life and, not least, better mental health. Document No 8-18 from the Centre Party proposes to introduce a system of free daily distribution of fruit and vegetables to all primary school students. The Committee sees the importance of early healthy eating habits for young people. The majority indicate that a subscription scheme has already been established. It should become nationwide and evaluated before a supported Document No. The 8th proposal. On that basis, one suggests that document No. The 8th proposal shall be annexed to the minutes. I believe that the parties that promote the proposals of the minority will argue for the content itself. Prevention of tobacco damage is aimed at preventing passive smoking, reducing recruitment and reducing the number of daily smokers. An overall committee considers it important to increase the initial age of alcohol use and to prevent young people from starting up drugs. The second recipe is to build alliances and infrastructure for public health by mobilising and coordinating actors. Because public health needs to be taken into account in all aspects of social planning and in the impact assessment, it is important to establish partnerships between countries, municipalities, municipalities and not least non-governmental organisations. The third prescription states that health care should be a priority for prevention. A green prescription is introduced as an alternative or supplement to medicines. The patient is provided with an individualised physical activity or diet. The Committee asks the Government to consider whether physiotherapists may also benefit from the use of this life-style tariff. This profession has a long experience in the handling of exercises and other activities. The last prescription is about research. It is important that all measures are based on knowledge of what works. The Committee is particularly concerned with women’s health and asks for a stepping-up plan for research into women’s health. The Committee also calls for women’s health to be given priority in the health management documents. The facts show that all knowledge has been developed to serve a male norm. Even the test animals are male! Since men and women are different, we react differently to drugs, diseases and treatment. Here's a great research potential. Diseases in which women are overrepresented, for example, should also be investigated. cases of indeterminate and chronic pain. Fibromyalgia is the diagnosis that has led in recent years to the majority of ill - treated women. Perhaps a national centre of competence for fibromyalgia should be established. Every year we treat 9,000 new hip fractures and 15,000 new wrist fractures. That's over 80 pst. of these fractures occurring in women, it is important to stimulate and prioritise new research into the causes and mechanisms of osteoporotic and osteoporotic fractures. Eating disorders affect most women. The training programme «Body and Self-Self» is a multidisciplinary collaboration that I think will be a good tool. Breast cancer is the most common form of cancer in women, with 2,300 new cases per year. Therefore, mammography screening must continue. The Committee has been concerned with the specific needs of immigrant women. A study conducted in the east of Oslo can provide us with important information on how to improve the health of women with ethnic minority backgrounds. Many people have diabetes. Numbers from Aker Hospital show that 26 pst. of women with gestational diabetes still had it after pregnancy. Norway is on the world top in the case of newborns with diabetes type 1 facilities. An overall committee wants the project ‘Environmental causes of type 1 diabetes’ to continue, in order to identify the environmental causes that trigger diabetes in some of these children. Violence and abuse are not fully recognised health risks, but this particularly affects women and leads to high consumption of healthcare. A women's violence committee has been set up and an action plan, 'violence against women', will be completed next year. Following the prescription, I am convinced that we will have an even healthier Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e139	In the Workers' Party, we think it has been interesting to work with the so-called public health report, Recipe for a healthier Norway. We believe that this attitude is now marked by the fact that the absolutely most important prescription for a healthier Norway, the blueprint itself, is the cohesion of social differences and the fight against poverty. 50 times in this setting have different constellations, different majority and different minorities from the government parties and from the opposition, rightly with different choices of words, pointed out and stated that the cohesion of economic and social living conditions is the most important thing in order to improve public health. Poverty is the most well-known risk factor for health problems, illness and premature death. Research shows us the relationship between a number of social factors and health. Now it doesn't help much in public health 50 times that this is a reality. And it could really have been a strong political working document if the government parties had supported the Workers' Party, SV and the Central Party's proposal to develop a long-term strategy for the cohesion of social differences in Norway in order to combat social inequalities in health. The parties to the Government would not support the proposal, despite their claim that, among other things: aims at reducing health inequalities between social, ethnic and gender groups. The public health report shows us very clearly that things are related. If we want to take public health work seriously, we should commit ourselves to thinking about people's health in all social actions and through all political treatment, in employment policy and in fiscal policy, in housing and school policy, in environmental and social policy, in integration policy and in cultural policy. Thus, public health work becomes a demanding task. There is no uniform group to work with. It's all ages, it's both sexes, from different countries and cultures, with both physical and mental states. But in common with everyone, they have to have something to live with. Work and income to live on are one of the prescriptions for a healthier Norway. It's one of the prescriptions that we know affects people's everyday lives and thus people's health. For the Workers' Party, work for all and an inclusive working life is essential. There are too many people who go without work and who experience working life excluding them. They feel outcast, it's too demanding, and they don't stretch. Too many leave the labour market too early. We can't afford that in any way. Those who do not have the possibility of paid work must have a social security they can live on. In this Communication, health centres and school health services as well as lowthreshold services for young people have received attention. The Workers' Party is pleased about this. Because through their observations and availability, many children and young people with physical and mental disorders can get help at an early stage. In the Workers' Party, we are pleased that in the Public Health Communication we have moved a little further on the way by focusing on women's health. It is high time that general women’s diseases were also put on the political agenda. We want our diseases to be researched, and they're going to have a different status than they have until now. I think most women experience that we have a good health care system when acute and/or severe disorders or diseases occur. Worse with the long-standing sufferings, the chronic pains in muscles and bones, the mental sufferings, the depressions – sufferings that do not have status, that do not get taken seriously, that do not get relieved, suffering that can last a lifetime, sufferings that often end with disability and pills. And we need to keep an eye on women's drug problems and on women's drinking habits. This applies not least to the younger women. We know something about the damage that alcohol and other drugs do to women, but we also need research in this area. It is a victory for women that the whole committee is behind these facts. It's sad that we don't get a majority in favour of the proposal that Jeleuk Kurbad can become a competence center for chronic muscle pain. But it's still a hope when the rest of the committee acknowledges that we need a centre of expertise. The average age of women is still higher than that of men. But if women live longer, we're sicker. We have plagues other than men and other symptoms, and for everything we know, there may be completely different causes of our diseases. Now we need to demand more gender-based research. We want to know the reasons and the contexts. Women have often been silent about their suffering. And now we can end up with that. What we know is that almost all the research has been done on men, that drugs are largely tested on men and adapted for women. In our view, this is a major feature of the proposal that research on women's health should be given priority. But we need to set up research and scholarship positions related to the Centre for Women and Gender Research. The whole committee agrees, but the majority will not support the concrete proposal of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre. That's a shame, because we need drivers in women's research. Then I would like to address the proposals that the Workers' Party is alone or has with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e171	The representative of Gunn Olsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e174	With this message, government parties have given public health work a boost, where women’s health is finally being sought. By focusing on women’s health, the Government has recognised that women and men have been and are being treated differently in Health Norway. With St.meld. No 16, Recipe for a healthier Norway, the aim is for several of us to experience increased life expectancy with good health and reduced health differences. Sickness if the Norwegian population in general has good health shows that there are increasing health differences in society. The widespread public diseases are particularly related to lifestyles, where, in modern societies, we are increasingly acquiring lifestyle-related diseases that lead to a decline in quality of life, loss of years of life and high social costs. More and more people smoke more and exercise less, while the diet is not always the best. «KOLS women are coming», it said to read today's Medisin on March 27, 2003. Overseeing Anne Naalsund at Rikshospitalet's pulmonary bedpost indicates that COLS has traditionally been a human disease, but that in the last ten years the number of women who have lost their lives as a result of COLS has increased by 85 pst. She points out that the number of young female COPD patients is a clear expression that smoking is more harmful to women. The Communication on Public Health therefore focuses both on individual responsibilities for their health and public responsibility, especially in the prevention of public health. The smoke law adopted by the majority of the Grand Duchy contributes well on the way. The action will focus in particular on research on gender differences in health. The knowledge of women’s health must be strengthened and the causes of diseases particularly affecting women researched. Examples include osteoarthritis, muscle disorders and cancer. In order to ensure safer and better treatment for women, e.g. Breast cancer calls on the majority from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party to centralize breast cancer treatment to fewer hospitals for better services. Although women and men are different, research and medical development throughout history has been one-sided based on men’s premises. Knowledge of misdiagnosis and adverse reactions due to mismedication particularly affecting women must finally be improved. In the newspaper we have been able to read about heart disease women who have been misdiagnosed because they do not have the same symptoms of heart attack as men. The articles claim that doctors do not know the female body, and that heart disease women for that reason are being treated for pneumonia, or they are simply being rejected. A heart specialist at the Fairingklinik has stated in Dagbladet on 8 May: ‘Men are easier to read’, because they have symptoms in their textbook. Women often have other symptoms.’ The same day in the same newspaper, we could also read about a 35-year-old woman who died of her third heart attack. The doctors never checked the woman's heart, despite the fact that she visited the doctor several times and complained over the hurt of the chest. As a female health politician in the Right, I am therefore very pleased that a stepping-up plan is to be drawn up for research into women's health, which is to ensure that women can also have their symptoms described in the doctor's textbook. I am very pleased that own research projects on musculo-skeletal diseases are to be launched, particularly and to a very large extent affecting women. The majority of the Committee considers that fibromyalgia should be included as a specific field of action in the field of women’s health policy and that Norwegian health services need to be trained and updated. For this group of sick people, it is a milestone that a joint social committee asks for the establishment of a national centre of competence for fibromyalgia. The Workers' Party is proposing Jeloya. The majority refer to the subject to find out where such a centre should be located. The Communication on Public Health is a historic boost for women’s health, and the majority ask the Government to follow up the measures in St.meld. No 16 through the annual State budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e198	Public health work is the overall effort of society to maintain, improve and promote public health. In this is the need to strengthen values that allow individual and group responsibilities, participation, mastery and control over their own lives and life situations. The present communication provides a good deal of support for this. The volume of the present situation shows that the Social Committee has creative members, which has resulted in a significant range of comments and proposals that one believes can improve public health in the future. In my opinion, however, most of the comments in the vote are not very helpful in relation to current and future public health. For example, Norwegian citizens are worried that using imported food should not make them feel safe — but Norwegian agriculture produces good food. Furthermore, snow mowing and the absence of sand currents in winter can be harmful to health, we need to lack public health advisers, and culture and horse sports should be extremely health-preventive. However, I miss the health diet regime of Fedon Lindberg in the comments. St.meld. No 16 is also characterized by a good deal of of of course. However, where the communication is more concrete in relation to the development of people's disease and lifestyle disease, the proposals are very good in my opinion, and we must follow them up in the future. Unfortunately, as usual, this communication does not suggest where the resources of the many good measures mentioned should come from. There is little political disagreement in the Committee on Communication Conclusions and Proposals. From the point of view of the Progress Party, I would like to stress that it is important to improve public health in several areas, but one should also be careful to establish a hysteria that operates in many ways during these days, and which creates unrest and perhaps gives the very opposite result of what one would have wanted. Life is not just health. Life also has other qualities of which individuals want to have the right to self-determination, and it is therefore important that measures for better public health and the fight against lifestyle diseases take place in understanding with the population, based on thoroughness, credibility and not least on research. I am quite surprised that the bigotry report does not at all affect the public health benefits that the new genetic and biotechnology can bring about in the coming years, in particular in relation to detected genetic defects that can cause serious disease but can also be prevented by changing lifestyles, nutrition and environmental impacts. The whole thing has now been revealed, and the research is now intensely concerned with the interaction between the genes, which will eventually give us knowledge of the importance of, for example, the environment, diet and physical activity to avoid serious diseases to which cardiovascular disease and cancer are associated as defects in the gene. It is therefore also very worrying from a public health point of view that this government is proposing to stop genetic guidance to the nearest family, as the Workers' Party and the Advance Party intervened quite recently. It has been found that the physical condition of both children and adults is rather poor, and we have a strong increase in type 2 diabetes. The communication therefore calls for a stronger physical birth in our schools, which is supported by the Progress Party in itself, but on one condition, namely that this should not in any way go beyond the subjects either in primary or secondary school. I would also like to point out in this context that parents should have a far greater responsibility here than they seem to take in our days. It should not be a public matter to ensure that children and young people have the necessary physical activity. Public opinion should perhaps stimulate sport, sport and non-governmental organisations to increase their efforts in this field to an even greater extent than in the past. Another group, which, in my opinion, is very important to keep in physical form, are our older people, who are growing more and more and also older and older. For these, it is particularly important to stay in good physical form, and many of them need both individual and collective support for this. There are also voluntary offers, not least within sports organisations, which have special arrangements for physical birth and follow-up of the elderly. A number of serious public diseases treated need to be followed not only with rehabilitation but also with the highest degree of rehabilitation in relation to physics and nutrition. Undernourishment and misnutrition are a major problem among the elderly. As far as I can assess, the fixed medical system has not led to any further development of public health and social medicine, rather on the contrary. The operation of our health centres is far from what you would like, and the same can be said of the school health service, which is perhaps even more important in terms of physical birth and physical development of children and young people. This is a matter I would recommend to the Minister of Health to look into when negotiating with the Norwegian Medical Association on the division of tasks in social medicine and infectiveness in each municipality. At the same time, a few have to put in place a day-care system in the municipalities. The Progress Party believes that the message and setting is good in terms of female health services, and we support both the Government and the remarks in the position to improve research on female health – a special research that has obviously been neglected in recent years. However, I cannot support the Workers' Party's proposal to make breast cancer surgery a specialty in soft tissue surgery, but I support the subject's expertise, which believes that cancer mammary surgery should be centralized into fewer hospitals with greater patient volume than is the case today. Unfortunately, asthma and allergies are growing in Norway, and measures against both indoor and outdoor pollution are necessary. But as far as I am able to assess, external environmental pollution is a global problem and needs to be solved globally. The main air pollution in Norway has been created beyond Norway’s borders. The Progress Party cannot accept that we should not be able nationally to develop the necessary power supply both in terms of water and gas in order to solve internal problems for individuals in our own country and our own business. Finally, I would recommend to the Government to find ways of influencing the Norwegian population to a more positive attitude towards the vaccination of children against various diseases. Unfortunately, this has a negative sign in large sections of the population today. This is worrying.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e228	It is important that the Stortinget can discuss on a broad basis such an important political theme as the Norwegian People's Helsa. If the central authorities are able to facilitate greater prevention of disease and health problems by both society and individuals, it will have significant and long-term positive consequences. A general improvement in public health and greater prevention efforts could mean some significant savings for society. In this way, this is a good social economy. This positive effect is in addition to the most important, namely that individuals can be saved from suffering and thus have a better quality of life. This is the main objective of the work on popular greetings. If we are to succeed in this, it is essential that significant increases are made in the prevention area in a broad sense and that public health is put into a global social perspective. It is this that is SV's main focus in this case. There is a lot of both national and international research that clearly points to very clear links between a number of social factors on the one hand and the health of individuals on the other. For this reason, a general improvement in public health requires a critical search for social development in a number of areas, that the relationship between public health and social development be made clear, and that this coherence also has implications for the policy choices of the Grand Duchy and other decision-making bodies, not only in health policy but to an even greater extent in other policy areas. There are some developments that have a major impact on public health, of which SV is particularly concerned. This applies to: the development of ever-increasing social and economic disparities in our country, an increasingly tough and excluding working life, a growing pressure from strong economic interests, especially towards children and young people, increasing environmental problems both locally and globally; I want to focus on the major inequalities in health that relate to economic and social inequalities. Let me be very specific. When Norwegian studies show that the average life expectancy of men in the urban districts of Oslo in the inner east is ten years lower than the average life expectancy of men in the district of the Winner, this is a dramatic figure. Research shows other such systematic links between morbidity and mortality related to educational level, social status and income. It turns out, for example. that in the first year of life of children, the extent varies both from long-term illness and hospitalisation to the social group of parents. Therefore, the SV’s clear conclusion is that the greatest potential for improved public health in Norway in the coming years is to balance social and economic living conditions. The fight for better public health is firmly and inextricably linked to the fight for greater cohesion and fairer distribution. Therefore, in the SV's view, there is a weakness in the Government's strategy in the big news — which otherwise contains a lot of good — that no action is announced to balance these social and economic differences. A majority of the committee, including the government parties, also says that when the socio-economic inequalities in health have increased over the past 30 years, this is related to the fact that economic and social differences have increased over the same period. Furthermore, the same majority say that this requires action to be taken to address these differences, and that it does little to try to treat the symptoms. For this reason, SV in the vote has proposed that the Government should develop a long-term strategy to balance the social and economic differences in Norway, thus combating health inequalities. This proposal has been approved by the Labour Party and the Centre Party, and I am pleased, but the government parties will not be involved. Rather, these batches swear to the symptom treatment that the notes say is useless. When the government parties and the Progress Party say in their comments under the chapter on the cushioning of social inequalities in health, the three most important building blocks in this area are increased efforts on health monitoring, strengthening research and building up the competence of the administration in this area, I think it is very debatable. We have good enough research in this area, and I think we also have good competence, but what is missing is the political will and the power to take action that works. Another very important area for SV in this message is the mental health of children and young people, where the evolution of their years is very worrying. Here too, we need to look at different aspects of social development in order to find causes, and we need to address these causes if we are to be able to reverse the trends that are disturbing us. An increasingly competitive society in schools, working life and in other arenas helps more and more children and young people to avoid stretching to and developing very poor seascapes. This is a bad starting point for health. When, for example, the political majority in this Chamber. implementing a school policy that helps to increase the competitive pressure in schools, is helping to reinforce such negative developments. I would also like to point out the sharp increase in various types of eating disorders, especially in young girls. Here is the massive impact of the advertising industry on a perfect appearance, body fixation, slimming and cosmetic surgery strongly contributing. The majority of the Committee fears that if the advertising industry and the participating interests behind it are not subject to restrictions on their cynical activities, these negative impacts on the mental health of children and young people will increase. I would therefore ask the Minister of Health to follow this development closely. In this context, I recall a Document No. 8-proposal from SV for a ban on advertising for cosmetic surgery, which was dealt with here in Stortingen a few months ago. I also expect the Minister of Health to note that the Stortinget, both in the context of the poverty message and now in the context of the public health announcement, wants an assessment of the 20 p.m. share. psychiatry resources for the municipalities of children and young people should be raised and the Stortinget should be given the opportunity to come back to this in some way. In order to prevent and protect the health of children and young people, both mentally and somatically, school health services are very central. Unfortunately, in many places this service is too poorly developed and organised, not least in secondary schools. Targeted work on better public health therefore needs to invest significantly more resources both in school health services and in health centres for young people, which in many cities and communities are a well-low threshold offering which plays an important role in health prevention work among children and young people. Voluntary organisations play an important role in improving public health, both in terms of culture and leisure and more directly in health-oriented work and activities. Research indicates that culture and cultural participation provide better quality of life and better health. This is why it is important to facilitate good working conditions for both voluntary and more professional cultural life. Many non-governmental organisations also carry out valuable health and social work on behalf of municipalities. But in the age of this competition, we experience that the law on public acquisitions and outsourcing is pushing out the ideal voluntary organisations for the benefit of purely commercial operators, where economic profit is an overall objective of the business. This is so serious that this law needs to be amended, as SV sees it. Unfortunately, we have not received a majority for this in connection with the processing of this message, but this is something we will come back to. Everyone agrees that diet is important to health. Therefore, in order to provide a good basis for good eating habits at an early age, SV Document No. The 8th proposal from the Center Party on free fruit and green to all primary school students. SV is pleased that women's health has been given such a wide space both in the Storing Message and not least in the Committee setting. I would like to pay tribute both to the rapporteur and to the representative, Gunn Olsen, for the important contribution they have made to this area in the Committee's position. I then take up the suggestions that SV alone or together with others have promoted in the setting. I also warn that SV will subsidize the vote on the proposal for Decisions I and VII if our primary proposals fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e277	The representative Sigbjørn Molvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e280	It is very positive that we can discuss health developments in our country. In my first period here in Stortinget, I suggested that we should really have a general debate on the state of health of the state of the kingdom where this theme that we are now discussing included. The Communication states that there are many socio-economic conditions that have an impact on health development and that there are external reasons for what we define as traditional health care, which have the greatest impact on the healthy development of the health of the population. Income, work or unemployment, the strength of a social network, residence and the social capital surrounding individual, ecological conditions, etc. affects the health of people all over the country. This we think is important to follow up on. This is why we believe that not least the economic part of this perspective should be explored in greater detail, and we ask the Government to investigate measures to cushion public health revenues and employment during the next long-term programming period. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority for this. It's just the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party that support it. That's too bad. It has been said by others other than me that poverty is the mother of all sickness. I believe that it is not just a matter of material poverty, with the economic aspects that I mentioned, but it is also a matter of non-material poverty – for example. the feeling of exclusion from work, school and education, in relation to overall success in society, as well as solitude, which plagues not least large parts of the elderly population. I want to get back to it a little bit. I also think it is a pity that there is no greater emphasis on reference to instruments in this public health report. I also believe that perhaps we could have a broader perspective on it, a general debate larger than the one we have today, a general debate that could go beyond the disciplines, sectors and levels of government than it is put up to. A minority of the Centre Party shall support this proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the responsibility for identifying the public health perspective in policy-making is respected and to ensure the development of knowledge for such impact assessment.’ Unfortunately, there won't be a majority for that, but I think this is one of the most important and fundamental things if we are to now follow up this message and develop it to become a total plan for a healthier Norway. The representative Alvheim ran a little over some of the areas mentioned in the message, I think. That's okay. Many have not been mentioned, so it may be a bit wrong. But I think many of these elements that have been drawn into the message, including from the Government, are positive. However, some areas are largely missing, and in this context I agree with the representative Alvheim that, among other things, Health and quality of life for the elderly are not mentioned in this Communication. We've tried to fix it a little bit, and show you, among other things. to the important role of health centres. We also believe that the elderly centres and volunteer centres have an important role to play in ensuring cooperation between the public and private spheres in this context. Investing in better public health is investment in the acquisition of income; both material income and non-material income can be strengthened in this way. Finally, I would like to refer to the Document No. The 8-proposal that the Centre Party has promoted to distribute fruit and vegetables to all primary school students. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority for this. It's just SV that wants to support us. I think that is a pity, because here we have a concrete proposal where we could put in concrete instruments, but then the majority fails. Better diet is important. We have international and national reports that show that today’s young people have an unhealthy diet, including: sugar consumption is too high. If we had managed to get this fruit and green into school, some of this sugar consumption would have been eliminated. The Norwegian Cancer Association, among other things, points out that such a free school scheme could deliver significant health benefits in the form of minor heart disease, less overweight, lower blood pressure, less diabetes 2 and less cancer. This is very important. We are therefore disappointed that we are unable to gather a majority for such a system today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e304	There is a broad consensus in this matter about the importance and importance of having a policy to take care of and improve it. However, there may be shades in the view on action and focus. The left is committed to society's responsibilities for the major lines and management of key assumptions. But it is equally important to strengthen the individual's power and responsibility for one's own life. Voluntary work in the community environment, participation, sport, culture and local democracy are fundamental elements of a society that cultivates positiveness and life satisfaction. Individuals must play first fiolin in their own lives, and it is not primarily encouraged by central governance, lawmaking and moralisation. The fundamental social liberal view is an intermediate point between a collective, socialist human vision and a liberalist concept of freedom that underestimates the community, which the Progress Party stands for. There are a few examples of pure socialist understanding and rhetoric that seriously underestimate the importance of individuals. We in the Left are most surprised that the Center Party is involved in these remarks, but there is only one of several examples that the Centre Party is about to leave its traditional non-socialist platform and more and more uncritically join the socialist basic vision. An example of this is note on page 13: ‘Lover and other overall actions at social level are the main tool in public health work.’ The left is concerned with a national policy, but separates from such negation of the local voluntary interpersonal work, which is the most fundamental to balancing social differences and strengthening those most in need of strengthening. The State shall provide disease prevention work, such as: through infectious diseases, vaccination programmes, food control, physical feeding in public institutions, etc. But health promotion is just as much the joyous work that is based on the individual's desire, abilities and facilities. Health and well-being are about using themselves and giving themselves meaning – for themselves, for others and for the community. We have to create a society that needs everyone on their own premises. Public health must therefore show confidence in the individual's own creativity, commitment and ability to control his own life and his own situation. Therefore, this must be done from below, not just through state orders and laws. The strong qualities of the people’s deep must not be marred by the belief in state-controlled systems and foresight, regardless of whether this is carried out in the best interests. Finally, I would like to say something about childhood and youth health, with which I have been working a lot. Here I think the debate is marked by a mistake and a mistake. The error is that you have as your starting point that today's children don't want to. And it's wrong to think that only the public can do the job. I think it's a misconception that children don't think it's funny to climb in the trees and be up in the air and play, and I think we have to do something about the way we organize physical birth for children today. Today's gymnastics is about to divide the children into two groups – those who think it's fun, and those who don't think it's fun. And those who don't think it's fun are set outside of everything. If we're going to be able to do something about the children's physical activity, we're going to have to integrate this work more into all the schools, so that you're out in the woods in math classes, and also in all the other subjects. Then you have to have a wider tolerance so that children can do exciting things that are not just connected to 60 meters and small ball. I think you'll get better at learning good balance if it's not so nice to do this. And that's why the security that we're trying too hard to establish around children, it's not going to be exciting to climb in the trees either. So I want to say something about the fact that adults too have a responsibility. Not only the public, but also the parents have a responsibility. I believe that the parents of all these children who eat two portions of honeycorn, and then are driving by car until school, must realize that there may not be a mess for children's health, because it is easier to sit still after two packages of honeycorn when you have actually gone 2 km to school. It should be just as natural to include in the parental conversation that the child needs some help to learn to be good at writing, to mention that one actually needs some help in the physical activities of the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e332	The Labour Party is pleased that the Government in the Public Health Communication makes it clear that it wants to obtain national mobilisation in order to improve public health through physical activity. This will be achieved by the Government through an overall strategy for physical activity. I believe that physical inactivity is among the greatest health challenges of our time and of the future. We must note that a number of diseases that are now increasing significantly in incidence have a direct connection with lack of physical activity among the majority of people. We see that more and more slimming down. Some diet is constant in media and people's focus. Very often, such slimming causes the body’s combustion to be damaged, and therefore the long-term effect on individuals is often the opposite of weight reduction. Although the Norwegian people eat fewer calories than ever, the average weight increases. We eat light, but we get heavier. The reason for this is, of course, that people are moving less and less. There is a need to change people’s focus – from slimming to physical activity. And it's important to realize that it's not about people having to start with hard daily exercise to maintain public health. Studies demonstrate — several of them — the very high health effect of half an hour’s daily physical activity, with an intensity corresponding to fast times. A people who walk half an hour every day will be a lot healthier people. This would lead to a strong reduction in problems such as: high blood pressure, high cholesterol, cardiovascular disease, obesity and diabetes. This, in turn, would lead to a significant decrease in sick leave, in the number of unemployed persons and in the number of early retirements. It would also lead to significant savings in terms of medication and hospitalisation. The question, however, is, How are we to achieve this that we all agree that we should achieve? Of course, much is about the fact that some of us need to make choices that involve physical activity more often. But it's also about creative solutions that can stimulate us to make such a choice. I have myself launched an idea about a trial project that, for example, a larger enterprise may test different measures. One idea in this context is that workers who go or ride bicycles to and from work get the time it takes, including working hours. Of course, this will not be the case for all employees, because many people have a long working path. And of course, there must be a time limit on the arrangement. Others have to be in place at the place of work until a certain point in time. There are many such schemes that will not suit anyone, but they will suit someone. Then a number of other measures need to complement this idea on the test facility in question. As soon as I launch this idea, I am met with questions about who is going to pay for this. It shows, in my view, a fundamental lack of understanding of the problem we are facing. Healthy workers represent a saving for business. Reduced sick leave, increased efficiency, less disability and several years in the workplace mean reduced costs. It's not doing anything that's expensive. I think that an experiment could have documented some of these contexts. As I started by pointing out initially, the government says it wants to design a strategy for increased physical activity related to public health. The concept of strategy seems to me to be somewhat unclear. For this reason, the Workers' Party, together with the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, have made a concrete proposal to ask the Government to draw up an action plan for increased physical activity. So you can ask, is there any difference between the terms ‘strategy’ and ‘action plan’? Yes, the term ‘action plan’ has a clear meaning in Norwegian public administration. I am therefore disappointed that there is no majority in favour of that proposal, taking into account the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e354	The Public Health Communication places a necessary search light on public health work. This work must cover all groups of the population. However, it is necessary to focus in particular on the paediatric population. A comprehensive social committee supports the Government’s strategy to prevent more from repairing less. It is essential that children develop good habits in relation to diet and physical activity in order to prevent adult health problems. This brings good health benefits for individual and significant socio-economic savings. When we focus on children and youth, it is important that we also include parents and the family perspective. We are pleased that the Storing Communication emphasises that it should be organised so that individuals can take responsibility for their own health. We don't want to point a moralising index finger at parents and children, but to point out the positive health benefits of good habits. We adults must be good role models, not least in relation to drug use, eating habits and body ideals. Like the adult population in Norway, children generally have good health. However, the same socio-economic health differences are found between children and young people as among the general population. Similarly, lifestyle diseases also affect our children, for example, with an increasing number of obese people. It's striking that as many as 70-80 pst. of all children and young people are too low in physical activity. We are therefore pleased that the government parties, together with the Advance Party, have asked for an investigation into how to facilitate more physical activity in school. The activity should not necessarily be added to a specific hour on the agenda but can be integrated throughout the school day. The intake of sugar in young people has increased and is almost twice as high as recommended. The intake is mainly from showers and candies. The consumption of fruit and vegetables reduces the need for this type of sugar intake and is expected to have a beneficial effect on learning and behaviour. We will therefore commend the Minister of Health, who, together with the Minister of Agriculture, has provided for a system of subscriptions with fruit and vegetables at school, and that this is proposed to be subsidized in the form of price write-downs and subsidies for the administration of the scheme. Subscriptions are offered in all countries with the exception of Finnmark, which will be included during 2003–2004. As far as the smallest are concerned, we know that a good diet for infants and young children is very important for the child's growth and development. We can be proud that breast feeding is much more widespread in Norway than in other countries, and in line with the technical recommendations. The National Amme Centre of the Rikshospitale is important for coordinating national efforts in this area. Although I do not expect all mothers to do as I do, I breast-feed my three children for a total of seven years. Unfortunately, children are also affected by mental health problems. Between 10 and 20 pst. of all children have so great mental problems that it affects their daily functioning. Of these, about 4 pst. treatment-intensive. Among young people, the proportion in need of professional help is about 10 pst. The Roadmap for Mental Health represents a historical initiative and contains earmarked means of provision for children and young people. The majority of the social committee has also taken responsibility for the growing need for mental health protection for children and young people and has decided that an increased proportion of the total resources of the psychiatry plan should be allocated to actions for this group. In the context of mental problems, eating disorders represent a special challenge. It is estimated that 1 400 young people between the ages of 15 and 19 have severe anorexia. Although eating disorders often have complex explanations, prevention of health work in this context is a responsibility that rests on each of us. We must convey to our children and young people that their value is not linked to narrow criteria such as weight and appearance. We have to kill myths that sylt thin models represent a bodyside. As adults, we must be a counterweight to a body-focused culture. On the treatment side, patients with severe eating disorders are a priority target group for the year’s foreign treatment allocations. The patient bridge is an important complement to domestic treatment provision in order to provide faster assistance to this group. In the setting of St.meld. No An overall committee has also pointed out that the health centre of young people is an important low-threshold measure for this group. At these health centres, advice and guidance are provided to young people in relation to prevention, living together and other health issues. These measures must be easily accessible to young people and should be available free of charge. Drug use among young people increased sharply in the late 1990s. Developments are marked by changes in the pattern of abuse, experimentation and combined abuse. Young people are more liberal in relation to the use of drugs. The government has clearly rejected the legalisation of drugs, and this is a value point that has an important signal effect. In conclusion, however, I would also like to point out some positive trends, namely that the strong increase in the use of alcohol and drugs among young people seems to have stopped in recent years. This provides a good starting point for public health work in relation to children and young people. The Storting Message Recipe for a healthier Norway does not mark the end, but the beginning of this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e384	It is gratifying that the Social Committee endorses the main lines of Government policy in order to improve public health and that the Committee considers it to be innovative and necessary with a policy aimed at influencing future needs and challenges. The same applies to the broad consensus that public intervention should be directed more towards prevention. There is a need to strengthen this work. Because although the Norwegian population has good health throughout and development is positive, we face major challenges. Positive developments are slower in Norway than in countries where it is natural that we compare ourselves with, the social inequalities in health are significant, and there are signs that inequalities have increased in the last 30 years. Several developments give rise to concern. The level of physical activity is reduced, the Nordics smoke a lot, and there is a high potential for improvement in diet. If we're going to be able to further improve public health, we need to make a change towards a healthier lifestyle. The Government's objective is to contribute to public health policy several years of good health in the population as a whole reduced health differences between social, ethnic and female groups and between men and women The main message focuses on the many factors contributing to the creation of health problems and on factors contributing to the protection against disease. One such factor is the healthcare’s own repair, rehabilitation and care activities. However, this important effort, which naturally receives a lot of attention, not least in the Ministry of Health and in the Social Committee, is not the most crucial for the development of public health. Our own choices and how we together align society and social structures in a number of areas play a much more important role. It is this ‘large’ health policy that is the theme of the Storing Communication. By focusing on factors affecting health, it becomes apparent that the health sector is not only responsible — there are a number of social sectors that have ‘ownership’ of health-related factors. For example, from a public health point of view, we must. care about how society is organized for cycling and healthy eating habits, how school handles bullying, how working life can be health-promoting and not health-disrupting, and not least how we can counteract and balance social and gender inequalities in health. Although a wide range of sectors in society are responsible for public health work, as Minister of Health, I am concerned that health services should also do their job. The proposal to introduce a green prescription in the treatment of patients with specific diagnosis is one example of this. Such a life-style rate is parallel to the current smoking withdrawal rate and shall provide doctors with financial incentives to provide lifestyle guidance as an alternative to medical treatment. Decision-makers will be an important player in public health work through their contact with large groups of the population, but also other health professionals groups should be more closely involved in this work. For example, in the context of the green prescription, testing for follow-up measures — a device to refer to — is relevant for special patient groups. Health enterprises must also focus more strongly on their role in prevention. However, perhaps the most important perspective of government policy will be to create a good framework for local public health work and to ensure that health considerations are more closely involved in social planning. In order to contribute to this, the Government proposes the establishment of a partnership for public health between States, counties and municipalities to contribute to a stronger infrastructure and to ensure local and democratic anchoring in this important work. We also need to use tools to ensure that health issues are placed on the agenda outside the health sector. The Government is therefore committed to ensuring that public health concerns are addressed by the purpose paragraph of the Planning and Building Act. We also need to make far more use of health impact assessments as a tool to ensure that health concerns are put on the scale in other sectors as well. If we are to achieve this, we need to clarify the requirements of the planning legislation and build national competences in this area. Health profiles are another important tool when public health issues are put on the agenda. We want health profiles to be further developed as tools in social planning and made available to all municipalities. Those who claim that this government is only concerned with the individual and the individual's choice are wrong. They have not read the message properly, or they have read it with prejudiced glasses. I have mentioned a number of examples here that we are just putting the social challenges on the agenda, and we are pointing to a number of structural measures that are necessary to improve public health. The aim is to build up systematic and comprehensive public health work. If we are to succeed, many actors in society must be mobilised. Voluntary organisations will be important partners of alliances, both in local and regional partnerships and for central authorities. The challenge is to make the forces pull in the same direction. I am quite pleased that this spring we have had a rather fierce and comprehensive debate on public health in Norway. It has been about physical activity, about tobacco, about nutrition, about social inequality and about health. And there has been some of the purpose of this communication: to put this debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e415	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e418	Now the Minister of Health didn't say so much about women's health in his post, there are limits to what you can reach in 5 minutes. But the Committee has now said that it wants a centre of expertise for muscle and skeletal disorders, fibromyalgia. When we've suggested that Jelö Kurbad become such a centre of expertise, it's because we think we know that those who have a high level of competence in this area. The second thing is that the committee at least says that it agrees with us that we need such a centre of expertise. Can the Minister of Health suggest what kind of timetable can one imagine in assessing such a centre of competence? In the case of mother surgery, we have not taken up our remark in the form of suggestions. That's the good reason. It would have been sad if that proposal were voted down in Stortinget – because we have not received a majority for mother surgery to become a subspeciality.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e429	I listened attentively to Gunn Olsen's main post and to the line now. Let me say that I think both the post and the reply were marked by regrets as to what kind of proposal there has not been a majority in the course of the discussion of this communication. In fact, I think it is quite important that the discussion of the report shows a broad consensus on the main issues and the main strategy of public health work. Then it is clear that there may be disagreement on individual questions, such as: where in Norway a centre of competence for musculoskeletal disorders is to be established for women. It does not seem to me to be a major question in this matter, but I have noticed what the majority of the committee says on this matter, and I will come back to it in budgetary terms. As far as breast cancer is concerned, I agree with what the chairman of the committee said on that issue. I believe that, for women's sake, there is a clear need to get a more centralised function in breast cancer surgery, but I don't want any further fragmentation of the surgical profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e441	As I mentioned in my post, I am quite concerned about the lack of interest in childhood vaccinations as it is now, and I am also aware that our professional authorities have the same concern. What I could imagine asking the Minister of Health about now is: Do you have an overview of the situation in the Department of Health or in the Institute of Public Health? current date? Is it a growing practice to leave off vaccination against a number of diseases that have actually been eradicated in Norway today, but that can quickly come back if these so-called quasi-fiction people are to have greater influence over vaccination?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e448	I share the concern of the representative Alvheim that we can ensure that parents are not using the vaccination programmes we have, which are an important part of public health policy and in the prevention of health work in this country. I believe it is very important that authorities and trade unions at all levels contribute to good, factual, sober and true information on the importance of vaccination, and on the risks of vaccination. Both the Ministry of Health and the Institute of Public Health have a clear focus on this. The Public Health Institute monitors the situation in connection with the administration of vaccination programmes and adopts information measures where necessary. It is true that in some parts of the country there has been access to a lower connection than in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e453	In the big news, the government says that a general goal of working with people's health is to reduce health inequalities that are caused by social and economic inequalities. This is an important objective which is shared by the Swedish authorities. We seem to agree on the diagnosis and on the goal of the treatment, but we probably disagree on the prescription. The question for the Minister of Health is therefore: does the Minister of Health think it will be possible to achieve the goal of reducing health differences without first or at the same time reducing social and economic differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e460	The comments and replies of the representative Molvik are again an example of a more specific starting point than in the actual focus of the message on these questions. For the first time in a public health report, there is a broad search for the social inequalities in health. For the first time, clear measures are presented in this context to help reduce health inequalities. That might be taken as a starting point for the debate. So I can accept that there may be disagreement about instruments. But to answer directly to Molvik's questions, I believe that there is a need to keep an eye on both general, social and economic cohesion and the cohesion of specific health factors. These relationships are interrelated. There is a clear link between social status factors and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e468	As regards the use of drugs, the Communication refers to the action plan on drug problems and to increasing prevention, in particular with young people as a target group. The centre party submitted a comment on this with health care resources, and that they are largely used for diseases and injuries related to drug use, particularly alcohol. Then we say something about the importance of seeing the link between availability and disease development, and it must be that both price policy and accessibility planning continue to be considered as important instruments in our alcohol policy. I have noticed that the government parties could not participate in this remark, and I wonder if it indicates a new direction in the alcohol policy of the Government. In particular, we have, among other things: mentioned problems with intoxication in this context. I want the Minister of Health to explain why it is no longer possible to agree that price policy and availability are important instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e477	I can answer for the Government, and for me as Minister of Health, and then others will answer for the process in the Committee. I don't think it's right that I go into it. It is my clear belief that alcohol use is a cause of major health problems. That's one of the important reasons, and we've also made it clear. There is also good research evidence that if you want to influence total consumption in a society, availability and price are important instruments. I also believe that we have pointed out from the Government. There are, of course, many considerations when it comes to designing specific policies in these areas, but that is another question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e486	As I said in my post, I think it's a pity that we don't get a majority for proposal 5 in the vote, to have an action plan for physical activity drawn up. But it's fast in these committee resolutions, and it's never too late to think about one more time, at least not before voting. I could imagine asking the Council of State whether he from this pulpit can help recommend the representatives of the government parties to think about one more time, so that we can get a majority for an important and sensible proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e491	I fully agree with the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen that a targeted and action-oriented commitment to increased physical activity in society is one of the most important things we can do to save individuals and society from the heavy burden of illness associated with physical inactivity, and the major socio-economic consequences it has for individuals to suffer from these diseases, and thus sickness absence and disability and suffering. So on the whole we agree. We also agree that we are actually working with the Social and Health Directorate on such action plans. Then there's a question about the Storting it seems necessary to adopt it. I'll leave that to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e498	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e503	I would like to thank you for a constructive debate. I agree with the Minister of Health that we feel that it was a bit like opening doors – that is why we did not support that proposal. To the Central Party, I can say that the reason we did not support the proposal from the Central Party was that we thought they had a stronger focus on local economy than on the drug problem. To the representative of Alvheim, I would like to say about the unanimous comitology with the wish that the Environment for Type 1 diabetes project should continue: it is based on taking a DNA test on all newborns. When you know that you can do something with any findings, this is a good way to research. Many have been concerned with women’s health, and the setting describes several measures to improve women’s health. At the same time, however, the attitude underlines that women in Norway have good conditions for good health and live longer than most other women in the world. I hope that women's health research now has a promise, that not all research is based on men's premises and that gender perspective is central to health care. We also know that relatively small changes in diet and exercise habits can give us more years of life with good health. It is important that we live up to this in practice, and it is tempting finally to quote one who had discovered all of this in 1859, namely Søren Kierkegaard. I quote: ‘Loss for all parts not the desire to go. I go to daily well-being every day, and go from every disease. I go to my best thoughts, and know no thought so heavy that you can't walk from it. When you keep going like this, you'll be fine." So now I hope we go towards a healthier Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e521	I want to spend my measured minutes on the women's perspective of health policy. It is very good that the Storting today takes women's health seriously, and that it now seems that you want to do something in the area. The time has come for more research into female diseases. We don't have much time. It is therefore appropriate that a majority of the Committee, all other than the Advance Party, agree to consider the establishment of a national centre of competence for fibromyalgia and ask the Ministry of Health to assess this. But how long are we going to take to evaluate this? The size should have gone a step further today. There can be no reason to have new rounds to assess whether or not we really need such a national center. We now have to assume that musculo-skeletal and fibromyalgia diseases are severe diseases, both in the case of long-term sick messages and in the case of disability. There are statistics that concern us. Therefore, knowledge of female diseases such as musculoskeletal disorders is important. Therefore, it is disappointing that the Workers’ Party does not receive a majority for its proposal to already adopt the establishment of a centre of competence in chronic muscle pain/fibromyalgia at Jeleø Kurbad in Eastfold. We don't have time to lose. It is high time to get such a center established, and I would like to claim that Jelö Kurbad points out in many ways to meet what we are asking for. The spa has extensive experience and knowledge in the rehabilitation of patients with chronic muscle pain/fibromyalgia and has developed an acute competence within the area. The spa is required for the guidance and instruction of colleagues and other health professionals in their special field. But in another very scarce economy, it is not easy for the Kurbad to give priority to this work of teaching others. This means that the competence is on the Kurbadet and only belongs to those who are so lucky to get there. In fact, there are waiting lists until 2005. We find that the tipping skills in this area are poor, although we know that very many of the unfortunate suffer from musculoskeletal pain. We need to know more about this, we're going to get the numbers down in the bad statistics on sick leave and disability. It is also true that Norway is a country that has the most women affected by fibromyalgia, and we should find out why it is. There's a lot we don't know in this area that it's urgent to figure out. Now the Minister of Health says that he promises to come back already in the budgetary procedure. I hope he thought it was the budget for the autumn, because then we shall be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e540	When the health minister says in his post that I have been constantly dissatisfied with proposals we did not get through, I have to say that I do not understand them. Then I don't think the Health Minister and I have been in the same room. On the contrary, I have stated that I am very satisfied with much of what we have done on women's health, and expressed, among other things. that I think that part of this message is a great victory for women. Then I heard what the minister said when it was about Jeley. As I tried to say – the lines have become very short now – we thought to know that Jelö Kurbad has the skills we need to get to that competence center. That's why we have proposed Jeley Kurbad in concrete terms. I also think, to repeat that, it is good that it is now to be considered whether to set up such a centre of expertise, because we think it is absolutely necessary. We haven't taken up any suggestions, it's only in an annotational form what we say about mother surgery as a subspeciality. We haven't taken it up, because we don't want it down – we knew it would be downhearted. But when the majority of the committee says they want a centralization of breast cancer patients, we know that of course it gives a volume. But there's something quite different than a subspeciality, and I think it's a little bit sad that mammary surgery should still be left-handed surgery.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e551	I took the floor to say a little bit more about mental health, especially related to children and young people and the increase and the challenges we see there. SV is very concerned about this increase. The waiting time for specialist healthcare treatment is unacceptable, I also know the Minister for Health agrees with me, and it is considerably longer for children and young people than for adults. In municipalities, too, there seems to be considerable shortages in several places, both in terms of resources and competence. This affects children and young people very hard, because the longer the time before action is taken, the more difficult the treatment of these disorders becomes. SV has therefore proposed in various contexts measures to try to correct some of these. Among other things, we have proposed a treatment guarantee for children and young people under 18 years of age, and we have proposed increases to the psychiatry in our alternative budgets. We have also been particularly concerned about the situation in municipalities, to ensure that children and young people receive their legitimate share of the psychiatry resources provided to municipalities. I guess today it's like 20 pst. of these psychiatric agents are intended for use by children and young people. In examining the action plan against poverty, SV – and we are pleased to be able to – have a unanimous increase in assessing whether this 20 pst. share should be raised. In any case, it is important to ensure that at least 20 pst. is targeted specifically at children and young people. The majority of the population now repeat this assessment in the public health report, which we are dealing with today. It could have been good to hear the Minister of Health's assessment of what the Stortinge says here, and whether a follow-up to this wish will come to Stortinge, either through the budget or by other means.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e562	You don't reach much in 5 minutes, and you don't reach much in 3 minutes, but at least I'm going to take some theme that I didn't get in my first post. Physical activity and this in that the students should have physical activity one hour per day. school day, is important. This has been confirmed by various strong organisations who know a lot about this. I also think that cooperation with sports must be positive and not negative, as the Minister of Education was partly involved here in the day. I also find it a pity that it was not possible to agree on an action plan for increased physical activity, an action plan covering several areas of society, for example. transport, land-use planning, school and working life. - So far about it. So for this with safe food, diet, nutrition and leading the goods-principle: We have pointed out that one must be leading where in the case of, among other things. food and drink additives. We also say that it is important to ensure safe food and clean drinking water for the population, both qualitatively and quantitatively. It is also important, as we have a note on in the setting, but where we have only received support from SV, to ensure enough food for the population. With the development perspectives we see today, with an increased risk of spread of infection, increased risk of environmental disasters and pollution, it is important that we have food security in this country so that the level of self-sufficiency, which is initially low, is optimal and that there is a short route between producer and consumer, which also improves public health through less transport and less pollution. So to green care and green prescription: Green prescription was one of the big news about the presentation of this big message. I think it is strange that no more attention has been given to what green care should be. I am also surprised that no one has supported the Centre Party in this respect. If we are going to have a green prescription, we also need an appliance that can provide green care, both in somatics, psychiatry, and in the health areas that we consider relevant in terms of prevention and rehabilitation. Not least in relation to psychosomatic disorders, green care will be very topical and interesting for the future. In the context of psychiatry, I agree with the representative Molvik that resources are important. So a little visit to the left, which says that the center part is far to the left. I am pleased that the Minister of Health also addressed legislation, and how we can get in with overall measures. He said that how we set up society and society is very important for public health. That's what we're saying in that note. I think the overall measures are important, along with the resources. Then it's enough that the Central Party is on the left hand side of the Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e579	Clearly, it is positive to get a public health report with a view to action that might have an effect. Nevertheless, the Government will have to be measured first and foremost on the basis of its willingness to initiate measures that will also trigger costs. I want to bring forward one issue that is absolutely related to the female health perspective itself, and which has an additional message here, and that is the concept of ‘professional disease’ specifically addressed to women. In 1998, SV proposed to investigate the possibility of recognising occupational diseases also in women in the care professions, in order to assess whether it was also considered to be an occupational disease. Today, the guidelines and regulations in the field of public security legislation are so fine that they are excluded. I have registered that despite several enquiries to various governments about this matter, this case has not moved forward. It has, as far as I understand, taken place an investigation, but the government has not taken up the matter in order to bring more clarity into it. One might imagine that a reason for this is that there will be costs, or at least that it will be difficult to identify causal relationships between women in the care professions, and whether the plagues that have occurred have occurred in a working situation or in leisure time. But it seems clearly unreasonable today that while men in traditional human occupations, such as those with compressed-air workers, will easily be admitted to their suffering from joint changes as a professional disease, women will not get it, precisely because there is doubt as to whether it is through the housewife's work that you have been plagued and not at work. Double-working women come out worse just because they have a working day that is much longer and much more demanding. I think that this case could have just been a good example that the government also makes things visible in individual cases that you want something from a public health perspective. Because it is clear that if an authorisation is at least possible, there is also something about the working life and the requirements that are currently being imposed in the care professions. It may also do something in relation to the different employers in order to improve the organisation of the profession. There may be technical aids, it may be in relation to the health care system, there may be different measures to reduce, in sum, the burden on each woman in the care professions and thus reduce sick leave and also reduce the possibility of future occupational diseases. I want to challenge the Council of State on the very theme I'm mentioning right now. I think it is a pity that the Government has not somehow been able to choose an approach that would have solved this matter, when a clear majority in the Grand Duchy has asked the Government to investigate this in order to come up with a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e591	I want to stress a little bit more this with vaccination. I understand that the Minister of Health does not have all the detailed knowledge of how that development is at the moment, and whether it goes further in a negative sense from our point of view. I would also like to say that the vaccination programmes in the last 50 years have perhaps been the most important single decision to limit and also eradicate some childhood diseases and other diseases such as TB and poliomyelitis. It is quite worrying that some so-called prophets have now been passed through and brought in by the parental regeneration that vaccination of children is no longer to be carried out. In the old days, the district doctor was a lighthouse in this area of preventive health, and he was also responsible for the health councils and provided this information to parents about the various vaccination programmes. That scheme is now gone, and I know that several municipalities have problems getting permanent doctors to take on tasks in the field of social medicine, which would replace the district medical system in this field. It's directly dangerous, I think. So the trend that's going on, we have to try to stop in every possible and impossible way, otherwise we'll get a serious backsliding. We already see it when it comes to TB, because it's increasing in the population. Now I don't know if it's because you haven't done BCG vaccination and followed up this as we used to do in the old days, I don't know about that. But this has to be monitored quite emphatically, and I also understood that both the Department and the Institute for Public Health do. If the Council of State is to have the floor later in the debate, I would like him to come a little closer to this and what is being done today to maintain the vaccination programmes that have been so effective over 50 years, at least, and which have been a significant preventive factor for serious illness in both children and adults. As regards proposal No: 5, it would be unnecessary to vote in favour of that proposal, because the Council of State has now explained the work that is going on in this way. But we're going to vote for the proposal from our side.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e602	Let me first thank you for a debate that I think has provided a good, clear and broad basis for the future public health strategies in Norway. I will briefly comment on some questions raised by some representatives in the debate. The representative, Gunn Olsen, says that mammary surgery is still left-handed surgery. I totally disagree that it should be like this, and that it is like this. What I have pointed out is that there are too many hospitals today that have this task. This leads to too many surgeons carrying out this task for the rare, and it's a quality problem. This is why it is precisely that fewer hospitals should do so for the future, in order to ensure higher quality of this important female health service. The representative Molvik specifically asked about the mental health of children and young people, and the priority of it in the future. We are now working with a number of other departments with a strategy plan for the mental health of children and young people, which I expect to present during the summer. When it comes specifically to the question of the proportion of the earmarked funds to the municipalities that should go to children and young people, I have already said in a circular for the current year to the municipalities that I believe that at least 20 pst. those earmarked funds should go to children and young people. In that way, I believe that we are already following up on what the majority here has asked for. But we're not there compared to 20 pst. not yet. Then the representative asked Ballo about the follow-up to a decision relating to the investigation of legislation in the field of occupational diseases for women. It is a question that lies under the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Social Affairs, and that she has answered for here in the main hall in the past, among others. referring to the investigation currently under way in respect of the system of occupational injury in the back of the population. I refer to what the Minister for Social Affairs has said, and will refer further questions to her as responsible for this legislation. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Alvheim's representative about the vaccination programmes that I fully agree that, for the future, they should also be very important instruments in public health work. Together with the Public Health Institute, we will monitor developments and put in place the necessary measures, both of an information nature and by other means, not least towards health centres, which are key actors in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e615	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3101]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e631	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other party groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e640	The proposal of the Central Party raises heavy health issues, so heavy that they are hardly suitable for treatment through the form that such private proposals are easily given. The health policy of our country is based on a set of laws and regulations that provide a basis for the overall picture of health policy. I can mention ownership of specialist healthcare services, distribution of responsibilities between administration, patient treatment funding systems, patient rights legislation, human rights issues, decisions on structures, degree of specialisation, quality provisions, etc. In Norway, we have advanced health legislation to ensure both the quality of healthcare provision, geographical proximity to healthcare, patient rights and the distribution of tasks and responsibilities. The last major health reform was the acquisition by the country of ownership of the specialist healthcare service, a process that has not yet been completed. The reform was initiated and put into practice to improve healthcare from the patient’s point of view. Getting this done requires a clearer responsibility to provide a health offer to everyone in a timely manner. It also means the need for significant improvements in many stages, not least in the internal organisation of the individual hospital in order to make better use of resources and professionals. We had partly dramatic long waiting lists and unwarranted long waiting time for many patients, yes, so long waiting time that there was really no offer for some patient groups – when it's talking about four years waiting time, there's no offer. No one could fail to note that the operating costs were not adapted to the resources put at the disposal of the previous owner, the county council. A severe deficit was on the table when the state took over. Nearly 1 1⁄2 years after the reform was launched, all regional health businesses report significantly shorter waiting times and waiting lists, and there is a financial balance in the operation of many health businesses. This has been documented by the Social Committee through its meetings with regional health businesses. The representatives from Møre and Romsdal have recently received very good feedback in a meeting with the Central Norway Regional Health Agency. These are very happy results. However, all of us must be aware that investigations and plans that health businesses may have can lead to uncertainty and insecurity in the population. The crystal clear responses of the population in areas where conversion plans are available, not least in emergency preparedness and food supply, are understandable and need to be taken seriously. The size has not given a blank authorisation to healthcare companies, for example: to base the number of births only on the question of maintaining or terminating maternity wards. Travel time, geographical conditions and affordability shall also be heavily concentrated. The same must also apply to emergency functions. I record that there are plans for more decentralised specialist health services and, possibly, the creation of so-called district medical centres, or near-hospital hospitals. Let me mention as an example that I have noticed that the hospital in Florø is under such a pressure. I ask the Minister of Health to be observant in such matters, with a view to finding solutions that do not divert expenditure and responsibility to the municipalities for specialist health services, even if these had to be carried out at a lower level. This means that the rate of any conversion needs to be adjusted to ensure that the economic aspects of operations are secured before any changes are made. It will also have to be the responsibility of regional health enterprises. In addition, the operation of such close-end hospitals must be a public responsibility, operated under public authority. Decisions on health services are the responsibility of regional health businesses, but the Minister of Health must actively ensure that the general guidelines of the Storting are followed. The size will follow in that happens. So I just want to say in the end that I want to make it clear that health companies are now carefully assessing and preferably, in my view, implementing to open their board meetings. There's no need to create suspicion about what's going on in the board meetings. Trust between enterprises and the population, organisations and authorities is only weakened.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e666	I would first like to refer to the statements and preliminary remarks made by the rapporteur on this Document No. The 8 proposal, and it connects me all the way to it. What the Central Party is doing through this proposal is, in effect, inviting a rematch to a major part of the health reform in an area that affects the very central parts of both this reform and the way in which a health service organises and governs it. One thing to say is that based on the debate that we had there, a person can have respect and understanding for a position that is based on the idea that the county municipality was the right governing body for the hospitals. But when one now believes that the Stortinget after the reform is to be transformed into a prison, where one is to discuss issues relating to departments in some hospitals, it is going in a completely wrong direction. What makes it possible for the 165 representatives of the Storting to have some prerequisites for deciding whether a local offer should be a food service or a food supply, when a government has a local anchor in the regional health business and an open process leading to decisions. The size should not take over, nor should it have the prerequisites for taking over the role of county councils. If one looks at the situation in the county councils and around the county councils when the state took over, one sees that the situation was that one had actually started a process that meant that a number of places had left this type of assessment, which the centre party now wants to move into the Stortinget, to the directors of the hospitals. Thus, one goes back to the situation that one had long before the state took over the hospitals, and before that process the county authorities themselves had started. Whenever a restriction is introduced to the offers, which is one of the issues to be addressed by the Stortinget, a request must be made to the Centre for example. summering an offer in connection with holiday settlement will be a theme for Stortinget. What is real is that the responsibilities reform that you have implemented is in the process of showing very good results. A look at the reduction in waiting time, a look at the reduction in waiting lists, and one sees that health care businesses are getting both an overview and an overview of the economy. Of course, the size should be the leader in national health policy issues. One shall take a position on the overall issues and one shall be involved in the formulation of health policy. But that the Storting should intervene in such a way as to address the responsibility and freedom of health businesses, and in that way smear up the reform that is now in the best interests of patients and yields results, one cannot be involved. Examples of leadership will be the leadership of the Stortinget in the emergency message, when the Centre Party here draws up a special offer for the birthers. There, Stortinget gave clear guidance on how this should be handled. It is estimated that health businesses are involved and that, if appropriate, the Minister of Health will take care of it in the business meetings. But it is now that these leaders were also involved in the Center Party. There's reason to ask the Center Party if they now mean anything other than what they meant when we dealt with the emergency message, because from the action-oriented business that the party is involved on land and on the beach around, one can almost believe that they have now taken a different position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e679	First, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Centre Party was included in the following remark in the Social Committee when the Committee examined the Business Act: ‘Despite a consistently positive overall picture of the health system, there is also a clear indication of deficiencies, not least in the specialist healthcare system, such as patients waiting longer for treatment than is medically advisable and desirable with the patient’s eyesOverfilled wards in many hospitals, Corridor AsiatesPoor working environment for the staff, among others. due to Corridor AsiansA lack of equivalent servicesGeographical differences in medical supply and practice in individual disciplinesLarge differences in resource useUnclear responsibilitiesFor low cost efficiency’» The majority in the setting of the company law had, among other things: the following notes: clarify and define responsibilities at all levels to empower hospitals in order to manage resource use better availability, quality and care quality at all levels within the framework of health policy objectives; It seems to me that the Centre Party has not yet taken on board the fact that regional health businesses and health businesses under the Business Act have been granted both the freedom and the power to organise the specialist health service so that all citizens of that country are given equivalent offers of qualitatively good health services, irrespective of their place of residence. The way I interpret the present Document No. The 8-proposal, this is an attempt at rematching the hospital reform, and then only after a year of operation. In this context, the Centre’s common belief will also have the political detailed management of the specialist health service, despite the fact that the Centre Party was included in the previously quoted comment of the Social Committee on significant, serious deficiencies in the specialist health service under just local policy detailed management. So far, the business model has produced significant positive results, as mentioned by many others here. Similarly, the number of patients in queues is very low, and time use is also reduced. Undertakings are now in a restructuring phase imposed by the company law. They shall take their decisions during the business meeting during June, which the Minister for Health shall subsequently approve or reject. Only after the business meeting has been held is the basis for the Stortingen to consider whether the restructuring and division of tasks between hospitals are in accordance with the letter and spirit of the Enterprise Act and according to national health policy objectives of the Stortingen. I am pleased that a large majority of the committee rejects the proposal in the Doc. No 8:85. One concern, however, is the Progress Party in the implementation of the reform, which is the very poor economy that businesses currently have, where operational credit is based to a significant extent. In this context, it is also very unfortunate that the opening balance sheet and the valuation of capital are not in place. This also creates significant uncertainty for the operation of undertakings. I finally show that the Minister of Health in a letter to the Committee of 9 April. states that in the forthcoming budget proposals he will keep the Storting continuously informed about developments in the specialist health service managed and organised by enterprises. In this context, the size has the opportunity to address the state budget and, where appropriate, to correct developments if it would prove desirable under the law and national health policy objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e742	When I heard the rapporteur’s comments, I had an immediate association, namely the term ‘love makes blind’. I thought that love makes blind, and it makes deaf, but it does not mute. It is a wonderful way to perceive the world when one can say, as Kristoffersen said when it came to the hospital in Florø, that it is under “press” when the board of Health Leader has decided that it will be closed from 1 January 2004. It is a strange notion of reality if you manage to present it as if what is happening now is completely in line with what you expect, in parallel with the fact that we have delegations of over ten people coming to the Stortinget and asking to meet the Social Committee and asking for action in relation to the processes that are taking place now. It is in so far as there is a difference in the rhetoric between the head of the social committee and the manner in which the Workers' Party appears in this matter, because the leader makes it so clear that this should not be intervened by the Storting that those processes should proceed. But you can't ride two horses at the same time and present it to the people who are outside this house, as if these are processes the Labour Party wants to be involved in influencing, while we see that local hospitals are now in danger, and that some of them may be abandoned. I record that many of the objections that the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party were all about when dealing with the law on health companies, are now in the process of happening to the fullest extent. I would like to quote a portion that the Christian People's Party, SV and the Center Party stood together on: ‘These members will stress that a well-developed and decentralised hospital service close to the population is necessary to provide safety and care when health problems arise. These members therefore believe that hospitals and specialist health services must remain part of the infrastructure of the welfare country under political and democratic governance and control.» The same parties, the Christian People's Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, stated: ‘Regional health companies will not be responsible for any elected bodies, but will be responsible for the operation following business-economic principles in a corporate law model of the Shares Act.From today’s openness to regional decisions and their effects through open processes under political governance, the Storting will have to deal with the Minister of Health in all such cases. This weakening of political control and transparency in the decision-making process is often presented as an advantage to give greater freedom to implement functional and structural changes without being subject to the influence of citizens through local political governance. This is in strong conflict with the usual thinking of local government and management of tasks.’» This is what the Christian People's Party says in a note together with the SV and the Center Party. The three batches continue: ‘These members will strongly point out that centralisation of the hospital structure at the expense of small hospitals for the benefit of central hospitals and regional hospitals is not desirable. However, these members consider that this appears to be a likely effect of the reform.» Furthermore, the same parties, i.e. Christian People's Party, SV and the Center Party, say: «The model of state health enterprises eliminates the possibility of transparency and participation in decision-making processes.» And so now we see employees who are afraid to lose their own jobs, because they are, and so should the Workers' Party. Thus, it is not as the Workers' Party suggests that it is reassuring that the Council of State should decide at a later stage whether to follow up Health led to its decision that the local hospital in Florø should be closed. What happens, of course, is that the employees are already starting to look after other jobs, they feel insecure about whether they will stay in the municipality if the hospital does not exist from 1 January. And that's an insecurity that's perfectly justified. Because none of us are given to know whether that hospital will continue to exist. None of us are given the opportunity to know if different food departments exist after 1 January. And neither of us is given the opportunity to decide on it either, as long as the Storting does not adopt general, national health plans or management tools that give us the opportunity to influence those processes. And that's what the proposal of the Center Party and the SV is about, but only the two parties want to stand together about. But you don't have to go back any further than approx. three years to find that also the Christian People's Party fully agreed on that kind of considerations. The Labour Party has not meant it in recent years, but the Christian People's Party has meant it. And it is possible to turn around in time and take back the popular governance of health businesses, so that what is going to happen further is based on directives from this building. It could also have given the population and those currently employed by hospitals a completely different degree of security.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e774	The President is somewhat uncertain whether the representative had intended to address the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e777	I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e782	The representative of Ballo has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e785	Like several other representatives, I have doubts as to what is the purpose of this Document No. The 8th proposal. Is there a rematch on the hospital reform, or is there any uncertainty as to whether the Minister of Health will follow up the premises, strategies and decisions taken by the Stortinget? The Christian People's Party agreed on the basis of which health enterprise law was based. It is still important for us that future services are more marked by common basic values. It is of fundamental value that the services should be characterised by respect for human dignity, care and responsibility for the individual, regardless of sickness and distress at all stages of life, and irrespective of where a living lives. The population shall experience that the service provision is available to them and shall have the assurance that the quality is good. The Christian People's Party also participated in the unanimous comitology that, although the overall picture of specialist health services is positive, there is great potential for improvement. One example was that patients waited longer for treatment than is medically advisable and desirable with the patient’s eyes. Last week we received a press release that shows that there have been shorter waiting times and fewer waiting times at the hospitals. There's a 14 pst drop. for all patients in somatic and psychiatry since the turn of the year. The number of waiting lists waiting for more than one year has been reduced by 24 pst. It shows that we're on the right track! Several restructurings are in progress with a view to improving service quality and improving resource use. Enterprises are entrusted with the task of assessing the further structure of emergency medical centres and food supply. The political leadership is provided by the Stortinget, and requires a balance between professional quality on the one hand and local availability on the other. Today’s attitude re-emphasises the political leaders in the emergency message, including one. In addition to the norms of 400–500 births per year, the years shall also be taken into account in travel distance, travel time and accessibility security. The processes have been open, and it has led to a large exposure multiple times. I think that's positive. Some health businesses have already carried out these assessments. It has been important for enterprises to be given powers in order to be able to think fully within the political framework and in line with national political leadership. The Minister of Health is responsible for the political finalisation. Governments have indicated that some proposals in total go too far, compared with the political leaders that have been set up. Section 30 of the Health Business Act ensures that significant cases are brought to the Ministry of Health and, to the extent necessary, are also submitted to the Stortinget. The Christian People's Party is satisfied with the new planning and reporting system to be included in the St.prp. No 1, which gives us the opportunity to provide the political leadership for the specialist health service. If the whole country is to receive equivalent services, strong national governance of healthcare is crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e816	Questions have been asked about the reason for this proposal. That should be obvious. And we also say in the rationale that it is important that the top elected body responsible for specialist health services in the country actually make decisions on the overall issues of major changes in the structure, location and level of capacity in the field of specialist health services. The rapporteur-in-Office of the Council, Mr Asmund Kristoffersen of the Workers' Party, said that this proposal raises serious health issues that are hardly appropriate to be addressed in this context. Yes, it does so to that extent, but it raises first and foremost a fundamental question as to whether part of these heavy health policy issues should be resolved by the Stortinget as the highest elected body in this country, or whether they should be left to the closed chambers of government, where the democratic deficit is striking, in my opinion, and I am not alone in believing that. That's why we're asking for this procedure and this way of doing it. We are not going to discuss this at the department level today, nor who is going to have food, but we are going to have an opportunity to put the overall structure in place, because it has not been done. We have a health report, a national health plan, that's getting very old, and I'm going back to that. But at least it's so that there's now a need to clean up a part of what goes in the wrong direction. So it's said that there's a complicated law and order in the health system. Yes, it is, and that's why it's important that there's an overall body that can look at this whole thing and make the right choices for the big lines. So it's also said that the waiting lists are reduced, and that it's faster treatment time. The waiting lists may have been reduced — there has been a need to clean up waiting lists — but if you ask some of those who are in a health queue or who have been in treatment, I am not sure that they are satisfied that the waiting time is reduced. There is now, at least, a considerably shorter period of treatment and sleep in many health enterprises, such as the United Kingdom. have been surveyed by newspaper postings this last week in the case of, for example: psychiatry. The food supply should not be just a question of number sizes, says representatives Kristoffersen and Woie Duesund. But when we heard the Health Policy spokesman for the Right, Bent Höie, he said this is in place. The size has decided what should be decisive in terms of food supply and ‘that’s it’. We believe that it is clearly stated in the emergency message, and also in its setting, that there should be questions of availability, geographical distance, etc. Which means something. And that almost indicates that we have a disagreement here that we should take a new discussion on. We are not inviting a rematch on the health reform, but we are inviting a general review of the development of Health-Norway, not least in the field of specialist health services, including the ambulance and emergency medicine service and the food supply. We believe that what is happening now, among other things. in Sogn and Fjordane with the closure of the hospital in Florø and the closure of the maternity ward in Lærdal, are of a serious nature. Then you must have forgiven me, President, but I am now going to put the word county municipality in my mouth! All party groups have received a letter – yesterday or today – from Sogn and Fjordane County, saying: ‘The changes in supply and location currently made by the Health Executive will lead to a serious deterioration in the health supply in Sogn and fjords, an increase in travel distances and a reduction in safety for many. There is also a great danger that the necessary professionals will leave the county." It's one of the sections of this letter. These are the things we want the Storting to take a greater part in. And then it is – I shouldn't say hesitate, because it may not be a parliamentary expression – wrong when someone says that with this proposal from the Central Party, the Stortinget is turned into a county that is going to decide on various health issues. The size has the overall responsibility, and we must take that inward! Then we can have poor confidence in health ministers. I do not have it for Minister of Health Højbrätten in general, I, but I believe that the Minister of Health must be held accountable to Stortinget, and the Stortinget must be held accountable to the Norwegian population. That is what the proposal is all about!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e843	The President can reassure the representative that the word 'communion' is still fully valid from this pulpit! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e846	Through the decision of the Storting to implement the hospital reform, national authorities wanted to ensure good overall political governance of healthcare, a health service that develops along lines drawn up by national political bodies, while at the same time clearly assuming responsibility for the executives, so that they can realise health policy within the agreed framework. National health policies are based on several Stortinget documents. I would like to highlight in particular the Odelsting's decision of the Health Business Act and its value base, the budgetary decisions in force and the communications the Stortinge has dealt with in recent years. That is the basis of the governance message I convey to regional health companies through the governance documents. The investigative work undertaken by regional health establishments is within the lines drawn up in this room. The Boards of Regional Health Enterprises, in particular in the north and west, will now adopt their final amendments in June in the light of the processes that have taken place during the last year. These proposals shall be examined at the business meeting held after the meetings of the Governing Board. It is in line with Section 30 of the Health Business Act. That provision provides for a system to ensure that changes of a material nature or of fundamental importance are not taken without the approval of the Minister of Health. However, the system does not indicate that the Storting should consider each of the proposed amendments resulting from Section 30. That wouldn't be wise either. This would lead to a lot of small issues from the Minister of Health to the Stortinget where one focuses on scattered individual relationships more than on a comprehensive overall policy. The design of the good overall health policy would be harmful. The Health Business Act also contains a description of a planning and notification system. Regional health undertakings shall report their reporting on an annual basis in relation to the performance statements of the management documents and shall report at the same time on their strategic plans for the coming years. This system has been set up in time so that I can provide my briefing with comments on the Storting in connection with the draft budget, both on the achievement of results for the previous year and on plans for the coming years. It is my intention to do this, so that the Storting can discuss in a good and constructive way policy lines that healthcare will develop after. This will then be a premise for the budget, and this will be an opportunity for me to explain the plans that might trigger an assessment under the Health Business Act § 30. The size may give its signals through the processing of this report. It will have relevance both to the management of regional health companies and to my handling of any cases under Section 30. The representative, Mr Ballo, has re-invited a review of the debate on the hospital reform from June of three years ago. I don't think it's particularly constructive. It is true that the Christian People's Party voted against the reform at that time, but it was actually adopted by a large majority in this Chamber. The government has clearly from day one said that we will carry out the reform, and will do it for the benefit of the citizens, on the basis of the guidelines drawn up in this Chamber. To jump back and forth and change the reform after as short a time as the proposers here invite, in my view, would not represent a reassuring and consistent governance, as the representative, Ballo, gives the impression. Hospital reform involves the administration of hospitals. It actually involves a decentralisation of authority. And that means placing responsibility for the operation of hospitals. I believe that bringing questions about individual departments, about ambulance services, etc. in this Chamber, it is something other than what the majority wanted with the reform. Let me also say that with regard to the review of the food supply provided by regional health businesses, there is a follow-up to a unanimous decision on the size of the population asking the Government to make the level of health care of the State Health Authority applicable to the planning and organisation of maternity care. It voted in favour of the Central Party, and it voted in favour of the Socialist Left Party! That is what all the parties in this Chamber voted in favour of. You've given a mission. And it's okay that you might not like any of the results of that assignment, but at least you have to admit that the assignment is given, and that is the job that is now being done. So I've noticed what's in the emergency message setting about the overall assessment that's to be taken into account, not just pure numbers. I'm going to base my exercise of my authority on these structural changes. And that's in line with what the committee also says in the present setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e874	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e877	I see the Minister of Health giving a presentation here of what SV is proposing, and what the Center Party is about, as if it were a reversal of the entire Health Companies Act. But that's not right. What we have proposed is a national health plan that provides guidance on exactly what the Storting is going to present. It is not at the level of detail on individual cases for each hospital, but on health care structures, where food departments, emergency services, are to be provided, where hospitals are to be provided at all. So there are considerations that the Christian People's Party has previously joined. It is true that SV in its time promoted an alternative proposal for a law. The Christian People's Party agreed that there should be an overall health plan. I would like to ask the Minister of Health: does the Minister of Health not also see the need for some of the overall interventions now being taken to be committed to a public body in order to be confirmed before they are implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e884	In my characteristic of the minority here, I have related myself to the position and the proposal that has been promoted there. It says: ‘Actions affecting patients and delaying the offer, inter alia: in relation to emergency preparedness, psychiatry, maternity care and the ambulance service, shall not be implemented until such planned measures and changes have been addressed by the Stortinget.’;» If this is not a detailed management of hospitals down to a simple level of action, I have problems understanding the Norwegian language, at least the depth of intention in the proposal. The representative of Ballo now addresses another question, which we will come back to later today, namely the question of national health plans. I am in favour of national health plans, and I am responsible for implementing quite a few of them. We should still have that. I want to put serious weight into the planning and reporting system on which the Health Business Act is based, precisely to provide Stortinget with the type of basis that the representative Ballo is now asking for. But that is not what this document No. The 8 is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e896	I will not comment on this in my reply, but I would like to address something that the Minister of Health said in his statement, that the investigation work in health companies is now within the framework of the Stortinget. Is the Minister of Health saying that emergency medical measures proposed, including: by Health Finnmark on the ambulance service, is in line with the guidelines and emergency notification in the case of, for example: response time, availability and proximity? Does the Minister of Health think that what Health Førde has now done with regard to the food supply in Sogn and Fjordane is in line with what has been drawn up by the Stortinget? At least it was good for the Minister of Health to have both noticed and referred to the overall assessment to be considered when assessing whether there should be a maternity centre, a maternity ward or a food clinic?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e903	What I said in my post was that once regional health companies have now taken up and reviewed the structure of food supply, it is on the job of a unanimous increase. They do their job, as Stortinget has asked. As for the question of the outcome of those processes, I have stated that some of the investigations that have been put on the table in previous phases, in my opinion, go too far in relation to the leaders that I believe I have from Stortinget. I'm going to follow that up in my examination of these structural proposals. It does not imply that it is not a completely legitimate process that has been initiated, and it is, in fact, enshrined in a decision here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e910	We know that the Christian People's Party initially had a completely different view of what this law should be like. I respect the fact that the Council of State believes that it is now such a short time since the law was passed that it may seem unreasonable to make legal changes at such an early stage. This is how I perceive that the message from the Minister of Health is. Given the very attitudes of the Christian People's Party towards the law, and the fact that one has disagreed with the design of it, it is close to thinking that at some point the Council of State will find it natural to look at unfortunate outcomes. So when it's not time to do it now, does it mean that the Council of State sees it in the foreseeable future, perhaps in the current period of growth, at some point, takes individual elements of the law and goes in to change it, for example with regard to the national health plan, and that you get it legalized?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e917	I believe that a rematch on key elements of the hospital reform would now be not only unreasonable, as the representative Ballo characterized it as, but directly inexorable. Now the job has to be done for the patients. In fact, we see that regional health businesses achieve good results. We get shorter waiting times, and that means something to thousands of thousands of patients in this community. It also means a lot to the public economy. I will constantly be looking for unfortunate results and will intervene against unfortunate results that I see in the implementation of the reform and in the operation of health businesses. I have also committed myself to the Stortinget – in order to address a topic on which the representative Kristoffersen was involved – to evaluate the issue of open and closed board meetings. I will come back to that after that evaluation has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e924	In this debate, some attempts have been made to divert attention away from what this really is about, namely that the Storting should take responsibility, have the opportunity to take this responsibility in terms of major changes in the structure, location and level of capacity. What's in the minority proposal is exactly that. However, it also states that measures affecting the patient in this context and delaying the offer, and which now appear to be going very quickly through the decision-making process, should not be taken until the Stortingen is presented with these major changes. Then it's enough to point out what's going on in Health Guide by day, where you're proposing to lay down a local hospital and lay down the maternity ward at Lærdal. It is these things that a pointing point must be presented to the Storting before changes occur that have a great impact on users.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e932	There is a complete consensus here between me and the representative of Luttvold: the Storting will guide the overall lines of health policy. The issue of whether, within the framework of the reform adopted by the majority of the majority of the majority of the population, responsibility must be presented to me – and I, the Stortinget – any action affecting patients in relation to emergency medical preparedness, psychiatry, maternity care and ambulance services, and which is presented by the minority as major changes in structure, capacity levels, etc. That is what I believe, and that is what the majority in this Chamber – at least according to the position – is not in line with the decentralisation and empowerment of health businesses that are actually in the reform. Then you can agree or disagree with it, but that is the law and the reform to understand, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e939	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e944	I represent a state where there has been considerable unrest and turbulence beyond winter and spring regarding the future organisation of local hospitals. We've been through processes that, with all due clarity, underline, and show, the democratic deficit we've got in the decision-making processes. That's why not the question we're discussing today, a question about rematches or not, but it's a question of how we put ourselves to processes that have caused considerable anxiety and insecurity among many people around the country, and whether we want to sit still and see that it continues to be so. In Hordaland, we have seen on several occasions since December that there have been reports, proposals and hearings from health care companies Health West and Health Fonna, which have caused great unrest and great uncertainty in a number of communities. In Odda and Inner Hardanger we experienced that in the middle of a tough transition period after extensive industrial closures, we got a playoff from Health West about a possible change that would in practice mean a closure of the local hospital in Odda. It would also mean that even more jobs disappeared and that one of the most important factors in the establishment of new businesses and new businesses in the area would also disappear in the same process. This triggered great impotence and increased pessimism in the area. At Stord in Sunnhordaland, we saw that there were first proposals to reduce emergency preparedness, and there was a draft consultation that would lead to a downgrading of the food supply at Stord hospital. This also created a great deal of uncertainty for the population of a whole region. What has characterized the processes we've been looking for? Well, people don't know where to turn, because there are no clear lines of responsibility that give ordinary people and the hospital staff a channel to participate in the process. Politicians have been told that they are no longer responsible. In enterprises, they have met a closed structure, where secrecy is practiced around important meetings, and where employees and local people feel that they are not being taken on board again and again – that all decisions go from top to bottom, and where we have also recently experienced several very worrying reports of pressure on employees not to interfere and not to speak out publicly about changes they are against. So it's a situation that many people experience as undemocratic and unworthy, where they stay with their hats in their hands outside closed rooms. It is very regrettable that the Storting will not take responsibility and say that it is willing to do anything, intervene in the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e957	It was pointed out, both by the case-rapporteur and by the representative Alvheim, that we have been involved in some committee comments in connection with the hospital reform, and that is right – among other things. that we have a positive overall picture of the health system, but that there is a lack and that they need to be corrected. It's e.g. long waiting times, crowded wards in many hospitals and poor working environment for staff due to Corridor Asians. But is there so much better now, then? Based on what has been reported in the case of psychiatry, even consultants have resigned because they have poor working conditions and feel frustrated about the situation. Then there is a lack of equivalent services — there are geographical differences in medical supply and practice in each field, large differences in resource use, unclear responsibilities and low cost-effectiveness. Has this improved since the hospital reform? It is well possible that health businesses now have more balance, but, among other things, The representative, Alvheim, said that is largely based on overdraft, and at least this use of consultancy has been mentioned. Then I get upset when the representative Bent Höie says that the Storting should not and does not have the prerequisites to settle these questions, which are of the overall nature of the health services of our population. That's not the point! As the highest elected body, we have to take that responsibility and have the assumptions somehow. So the Health Minister says we've decentralized, and there's something positive about it. Yes, at least responsibility has been removed from elected bodies and put into the closed rooms. So I hope that the Minister of Health will now come to the point that he will open these board meetings and increase transparency in health management at that level. But there's no doubt about anything but that in these governments, it should be primarily the competence of business and economics, and I think health has now disappeared. It is the money and not the policy that governs health policy today. It is a democratic deficit, and I think that the Storting – at least individual parties and representatives – signals governance refusal, which is really a discharge. It increases the distrust between the population and the politicians and creates political disdain, in my opinion. The disclaimer that is now taking place is not only an accident, but is also absolutely irresponsible if we believe anything with the points we shared, which were the basis for the health reform, among other things. that the fundamental values of the welfare state on equality, justice and solidarity should apply, public responsibility for providing good health care to the whole population, respect for what was achieved in the Norwegian health system, and political governance and influence to ensure welfare policy objectives. Then I just want to remind you of what we said in the debate in the previous case: Health policy is an important social responsibility – and that responsibility must be taken by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e968	I feel the need to remember two things. First of all, if you are going to believe statistics, and from meetings that we have participated in the social committee in health enterprises, in the whole regional enterprises, many patients have been offered treatment much faster this last year than before. That has to be right. Secondly, the lines of responsibility are clearer. Employees now have a much better representation in the boards. There the employees have their channel. The user samples, representing users, are thus formalised cooperation between user organisations and healthcare companies – a much better system than before. So the question remains: is the Storting going to review health companies' decisions? No, not directly. The Minister of Health in a parliamentary system is set to ensure that the will of the Storting is carried out. It is we who have designed the policy to be in charge of health businesses, and if the Minister of Health does not want to do so, he will have to go back to work other than being a Minister of Health. I don't think the Minister of Health is going to do that fast. That is why I have great confidence that he will follow closely in what is happening and that it will be in line with what the Great One has decided. Then I was amazed at Ballo's main post, which was an attack on the Workers' Party and myself personally for the use of words in an example I used at the end of an article, about what was possibly about to happen in Health Leader. I chose the words based on the fact that I have not actually seen the decision, but I know that something is going on, to say it this way, and then I used words like under pressure. So I also said that in such cases the Minister of Health must be observant and use his authority where necessary in relation to the leadership of the Stortinge. That means what it's going to be in a hospital, and also economic conditions. If you intend to transfer some of the specialist health services to the municipality, you first have to make sure that the financial instruments and arrangements are such that the specialist health service is paid by the state and not overturned to the individual municipality. That's what was my clear message with that example. If there are other examples, I don't know, but this I have understood is something that Health Förde has been about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e983	Some clarifications are needed. First, to the representative of Violent Violence. I absolutely believe that overall health policy issues belong in the Stortinget and the Government. One of the main reasons why we were one of the champions of this health reform that today's debate has been about is that responsibility for the country's overall health policy should lie in the Stortingen and not in 19 different districts. But what it's worth asking is what's really the proposal of the Center Party. The representative of Lutvold talks consistently about the overall issues going to Stortinget, and that is what is meant by the proposal of the Central Party. Yes, he even says in his main post that Stortinget should not decide on ‘who is to have food supplies’. So the question is, what's true here? Is that what the Center Party is marketing country and beach around, that this Document No. The 8-proposal would have prevented the conversion of a maternity ward to a maternity ward? Or is it the intention of this document that the Storting should have a greater control over the overall health policy issues, as he says they mean? Or does the representative of Gløtvold think that the transition from the maternity ward to the maternity ward is a general health policy issue? The centre party must clarify this: is what they are marketing in the big country, which is the intention of this proposal, or is it what the representative of the pulpit says?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e990	Several of those who in their time represented the counter-communication to the reform have also been in the pulpit here today and talked about the 'democratic deficit'. I wonder where they're really going in society. I have visited a lot of hospitals after the reform got on the rails, and there are clear statements I get from the employees, that they have never before been so well informed about plans and developments in their hospital. And then you're able here from this pulpit to maintain that this is happening in closed rooms, and that the employees don't know what's going on either. It is even claimed from this pulpit that the employees have been ordered to shut up. Where did you get this? It's not true. It's not true. It's kind of dry. I choose to call the reform we have a responsibility reform. Only now does the Storting have the opportunity to really intervene and do something if health policy objectives are not followed up by businesses. We didn't have that before. We could then ask questions to the Minister of Health about different situations abroad, and the answer was always clear: this is a municipal responsibility that the Minister of Health cannot significantly interfere with. Now the Minister of Health will always be responsible in this Chamber for what we have to raise. I can assure those who are behind this proposal that I and my party will follow closely when the business meeting has been held, whether the decisions in place are in line with the legal text of the reform and the spirit of the reform and in line with the additional comments made by the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e997	Ola D. Glötvold has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1000	When it comes to the democratic deficit, it's about what the people and the users feel, and I'm sure I'm also in a sphere that gives the right signals. Then the representative Alvheim gets to deal with the relationship with the employees and what they feel, with those who have made statements about the employees today. So to the representative, Höie: it is clear that what we want to debate in the Storting is the larger structure and the changes that take place in relation to structure, location and level of capacity. I have not said that the food supply is not part of this today – in case I have expressed myself very clumsy, or have been misinterpreted by the representative Höie. I believe that the structure and offer of birth are part of what matters to the population, to the settlement, and it's a social issue, as part of the other thing we've pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1007	I asked for the word with a background in the posts of the committee manager, where he challenges in relation to where you have it from the fact that employees might have had problems. The class struggle has a look today that the members of the Stord hospital have been threatened to lose their job if they expressed themselves critically about the decisions that had been made, and in the same newspaper there has previously been a look-up from the hospital in Harstad, where one of the employees, a nurse, should have been dismissed after criticizing the director. Of course, in SV we are aware that such phrases need to be looked into more closely to see if they are real, but the point is that there is now an attention to them. There are different media that focus on whether or not a culture has been created by the new Health Business Act that does not allow employees to exercise normal criticism. You could try to explain it out that it's written in radical newspapers. What I think is interesting is that Francis Sejersted, who was the head of the Freedom of Speech Commission, and who can't in any way be characterised as some radicals with his membership in the Right, even expresses concerns that employees can't get to grips with hospital conditions. If Sejersted is quoted correctly here, he also criticises the Council of State and says that the Højbrätt, through its reply to the representative of the Magnificent Audun Bjørlo Lysbaken, departs from the issue that concerns the rights of employees relating to freedom of expression. That's an important element in it. If you take the situation in Flora now, the employees obviously have to be in their right to raise their views in the media, related to changing the hospital structure in Sogn and fjords and its consequences. In my view, it is one of the most important paragraphs of the Constitution, where it is clear that it is for everyone to be able to express themselves freely on what one might want to say about the ‘government board and whatever other object’, as it says there. If you were to deprive the employees of that right, there's a way to make the processes seem more squeaky, because that would be a way to prevent them from making us elected to the public aware of the processes that are taking place. This does not mean that the employees in their work are to oppose the organisation in the sense that they are not carrying out the work they are assigned to, but they must be in their natural right to express their views at their own place of work and how it is to be organised in the future. I think it's going to be too easy for the committee leader to say that to him it's completely unknown that something like this should happen, when you can look up both from Stord the same day, I mentioned from Harstad, and there's also been a focus on this in relation to other hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1014	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3103]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1030	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1037	This is a new matter, but so far the same theme. When SV of the representatives Olav Gunnar Ballo, Karin Andersen, Sigbjørn Molvik, Heidi Grande Røys, Geir-Ketil Hansen, May Hansen and Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken submitted this proposal, I have at least interpreted it as having some of the same intention as the previous case, i.e. to give the Storting an opportunity, as the country's top elected body, to influence more strongly on developments in the health sector. The proposal is intended to ‘facilitate the amendment of the Health Business Act to include the provision of a national health plan’. The proposers state that an objection to the new Health Enterprises Act has been that large and structural changes affecting the general public, which create a high level of involvement in the population, were moved out of the public sector bodies and into the health enterprise boards. As the rapporteur, I agree with this, but I will also refer to what the majority here is in favour of. They do not support this proposal. It's only the SV and the Center Party that do it. In this context, the majority point out that the Minister of Health represents the business meeting with regard to health enterprises and is a general meeting for them, and that the Minister of Health has stated in a letter to the Committee of 20 May this year that they are planning, inter alia, to do so. refer to – national health plan, cancer plan, psychiatry plan, etc. – is the basis of health policy. I'm assuming that the majority will eventually come to terms with what they've stood for. As rapporteur of the case, I think that when we first addressed the need for a national health plan, it was important to do this somewhat wider than simply change the law on health businesses. I believe that a national health plan must address the whole of the health service. We also need to look more closely at the interaction between the first-line service and the specialist healthcare service than the proposed approach, looking at the provision of rehabilitation services in the areas of somatics, psychiatry and drugs, as we do. now deals with the day – so that we get a whole in this. At the same time, I believe that a national health plan should provide an overview of the resources available, the resources available and how to provide those resources where there is a shortage. This applies, inter alia, to: professional personnel and the need for recruitment, training, etc. in relation to the human resources situation both at first line level, i.e. in the municipal health service, and in relation to the specialist service. The resources in the municipal health service are being strongly challenged today, for example: as regards the printing practices of health establishments. It also means that we should discuss what is the need for resources now in the community health service compared to just one year ago. I think it's important to get such a whole. There will be a need for more coordination and coordination between the different levels of health services if this is to go more squeak-free than it is today. It is primarily to get better relationships for the patient, but it will also be for the benefit of society. We can create better, more coordinated services – yes, perhaps even more reasonable services. As for the need for a national health plan, I have a yellow paper here. It is the last national health plan that has been dealt with by the Storting. It's St.meld. No 41 for 1987-88, promoted in March 1988, i.e. over 15 years old. It has the title ‘Health policy against the year 2000’. That thousand-year shift is the longest avoided, and I also believe that there is a great need to coordinate all the plans we have in Health-Norway, to a national overall health plan, so that we can get more out of the resources we put into health policy and in our healthcare systems, and that at the same time there can be better provision for those who are users of Norwegian healthcare. I then, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, take up the proposal that has been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1058	The representative, Ola D. Glütvold, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1061	The issue of the introduction of a national health plan has been discussed from time to time in the Stortinget. The question of health provision for the population depends, not primarily, on extensive and correct plans, but rather on the ability and willingness to implement adopted laws and regulations. Annual government budgets are a very important instrument for the development of health services. The proposalers are quite right that it is a national responsibility to get to a health care system that is based on both proper structures, resource allocation, coordination between first- and second-line services, etc. With the legislation and structure we have for our specialist health service, we have the five health regions that through health companies are responsible for the organisation and management of the specialist health service. They have a clear responsibility for providing good and equivalent health services to the entire population irrespective of their place of residence. It is laid down in the law and in the preparatory work for it. The Health Enterprises Act states that an annual system of notification between government and wholesale is to be set up. This has been very clearly announced by the Minister of Health, so that through this the Storting will have an opportunity to discuss national health policies and thus also provide guidance for future governance. This will be a basis on which the Minister of Health who is always seated must base his ownership. Me and the Workers' Party believe that this is the right way to develop our health care system. This results, among other things, in: Enlarged opportunity at one time a year to make an assessment of what has happened and, above all, decide what the price should be in the future. I was into it in the second case, but I mention it in this context as well. This concerns the objections raised by several teams to the closing Governing Board meetings. Of course, transparency is now linked not only to the Governing Board meetings themselves but also to the way health businesses handle their information work. I think it's wise to look at the experience of those companies that have open board meetings. As I have said before, there is nothing in my opinion that would suggest that these meetings need to be closed. I recommend that the Minister of Health go into this, as he has warned. I respect of course that he will make his own assessment before he makes a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1078	Unlike the rapporteur, I consider this proposal to be quite different from the one we discussed in the previous case. This is a proposal that I believe has the intention of having a comprehensive overall plan for health policy in Norway. Such a plan will necessarily include, as the proposers also write in their proposal, specialised functional distributions, resource needs, personnel needs, etc., escalation plans and other aspects related to the extent and level of health care that are deemed necessary. I see that as something quite different than a desire to make decisions for the Storting, which goes on the way in which the individual department or the individual hospital disposes of its resources, and assessments of the professional content of the individual department or of the individual offers. In this way, I have a sense of the intentions of the proposal. The reason why we choose to attach the proposal to the protocol is that we believe that the way in which the Minister of Health has handled this is a more correct way of dealing with it, through the already existing health plans that are available in the various areas, as well as a feedback and information part of the revised national budget, which the Minister of Health explains in the letter to the Committee. The size will be informed of the work being done by health businesses, and the overall picture will then be given. We think that's a sufficient way to do this right now. It is not, as the representative Kristoffersen had in mind, the number of plans that are decisive in terms of the results that you are left with, but it is crucial that you have the ability and the will to implement them. This does not mean that we exclude the fact that, at a later stage, there is a need for an overall national health plan, in line with the proposals put forward here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1085	There is poor coordination from the resistance movement here – this is something quite similar to the one that was up in the past. Document No. presented by the representatives of the Socialist Left Party In reality, 8 proposals for the introduction of a national health plan are, as I see it, an attempt to reverse the hospital reform, and it is barely a year and a half after the reform has begun. It is entirely legitimate to try, but also the proposers should be aware that the outcome of such a proposal in the Stortinget today is initially given. The plan envisaged by the proposers shall allegedly include a description of the overall structure of the specialist health service, including geographical allocation of resources, coordination between the different units and between the specialist health service and the first line service. This is precisely what is now happening in the context of the hospital reform, which aims at providing equivalent health services to the whole population irrespective of their economy and their place of residence. The business model also describes how the allocation of resources is to be carried out, namely through five regional health enterprises. Enterprises are also required to coordinate services, to improve quality, and to provide a good health service to all and to interact with first-line services. Once the structural changes and the division of tasks have been completed, the fact will show that, at state health companies, we will have a stronger decentralised specialist health service than we had with county hospital operations. As far as I understand the present proposal, the main point of appeal from the proposers against the hospital reform is that the management of the specialist healthcare service is no longer assigned to local politicians, but that the political governance of the Stortinget takes place through the Minister of Health, who is a general meeting of regional businesses. This is, in my opinion, a far better and sensible political governance of the specialist health service than what we had in county operational responsibility. Now, the Stortinget can at any time make the Minister of Health responsible if one believes that the specialist health service does not meet the health policy objectives laid down by the Stortinget. In the annual budgets, the Stortinge will be kept informed of the development and situation of the specialist health service and will then have the full opportunity to go in and out of control of the Minister of Health, if that is reasonable and desirable. Medical-technical developments are moving rapidly. The transition both organisationally, administratively and professionally must follow these developments in order to provide patients with the best treatment at all times. So far, the hospital reform has been a success. The waiting time has been reduced, as have the waiting lists. My and my party's great concern over the specialist health service with state health companies is not lack of political governance, but lack of resources. The majority of the Storting has not been willing to provide sufficient operational resources to undertakings, so that a number of undertakings currently operate with significant operating credits. In my opinion, this cannot continue for very long. It is a strange claim that appears in the explanatory statement for the present Document No. 8 proposals, i.e. the following: ‘The proposalers consider that there is a democratic problem that there is no popular political level that has the opportunity to intervene directly in major structural changes to the specialist health service and that, after the government has taken over the specialist health service, the Stortinget is the only elected body with the legitimacy to carry out this task.’ Yeah, isn't that right? Isn't that what we've wanted for many years from this room, to make sure that health issues are addressed in a good way for our users? I conclude with the following questions about this quote: Do the proposers really think that the county politicians were better able to organise the specialist health service than the Stortinget could be in the future? The result after 30 years of county hospitalization suggests, in my opinion, the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1121	I perceived it so that the representative, Höie, with his contribution, brought this matter into a somewhat muttered water, and I will try to keep it there. It should, of course, be an objective to look at the overall use of resources that goes to health in Norway and that the overall size of the population seeks to control those resources so that they can reach where they help best. A look at the Evening Post for a time back, on 8 May, pointed out that there had been increasing differences, and in particular pointed out the link between the operating costs of psychiatric institutions and somatic institutions, the growth rate in somatic affairs, and a significantly greater difference today than in the past. These are well-known sizes, which have also been commented on earlier from this pulpit. If you were to think that you were going to do something about this kind of development, it wouldn't be enough to see every subject isolated. It's good that you've got an escalating plan for the psychiatry, and it's good that you've strengthened cancer care. But if you don't see the services together, you're at risk of getting a development that I think Stortinget might not have intended to be right. A typical example of this is that despite the fact that you have an escalating plan for psychiatry, somatics are growing more. If at a general level you had clarified what the objectives were, and evaluated them regularly, you could have corrected the course along the way if you saw that it was wrong. That had to be the case for health businesses and then directed them. So it would have been an important management tool for health businesses as well. I note with satisfaction that the Minister of Health has stated that he will come to Stortinget every year with some sort of reporting in the state budget around the grips being taken and the direction it has, so that it is consistent with the Stortinge's intentions. But that's something the sitting state council says. In today's situation one can well imagine that there is a new government council, which believes something quite different about that issue. What I can't quite understand is that if both the Right Party, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party believe that this is a sensible device, why should you not then formalize that device and subjugate it in the law as part of the law itself. I note that there is a point made that the waiting lists have fallen, and that results related to the Health Business Act have been achieved, and that is a good thing. All the results that allow more patients to be helped in an appropriate way, we in SV also want to support them constructively. But precisely because you need better results, you have to be willing to look at the negative results in the process. One aspect has been mentioned here, that the Governing Board meetings have been seen as closed, and that the population has not had access to them. I heard the Council of State say earlier that he perceives it differently, that the population actually has ample access. If it is possible to make the kind of changes in which the criticism comes, you could develop the law itself to become a useful tool that then gets better and better over time. We want that kind of dynamics in SV that it should be. You can discuss when those changes are going to happen, and I tried to invite the Minister of Health to come up with opinions on it instead. He could have an opportunity to bring it with him now. I believe that when the Minister of Health says so clearly that he also sees it as useful to consider overall plans for the Storting, it should well be dropped, so that later government councils also deal with the same thing. If that's the case that there's no point, I could imagine hearing a reason for that. Is it thought that the type of approaches should vary from one State to another, and what should be justified in that case? I believe that Höie has made the point of the proposal, and that there is no need for detailed management to promote it, but precisely the need for an overall body, namely the Storting, to draw the long lines, and then health businesses have concrete guidance documents to deal with when policy is to be put into practice. I understood that the committee leader came up with an invitation by quoting from the grounds of the proposers. What we have pointed out is that as the law is designed today, the Storting is not directly connected to a general level. You're dealing with the Council of States, but not with the Storting. So we want to do something about it, by proposing national health plans. It's no harder than that. To whether the state policies are poorer or better qualified: I believe that the wit is quite abundant and equally distributed around this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1144	By Document No 8:89 a selection of representatives from the Socialist Left Party wants health care organisations to be changed to include a provision for a national health plan. The Christian People's Party believes, as the proposers and an assembly committee, that national health planning needs to be overseen. Furthermore, we are concerned that there should be a holistic management of and a clear legal responsibility for the specialist services. Equal access to important healthcare services requires strong national health management. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that elected bodies should maintain their integrity in the specialist services. Good political governance will ensure that we receive a health service that develops by means of lines provided by national political bodies. It is therefore important that the Storting should be given the opportunity to draw up the overriding principles for the development of health services. This is crucial to ensure that national integrity is maintained at the popular level. However, this concern is not in contrast to the fact that the perpetrators have the responsibility and the necessary powers to implement the health services in line with the policies provided by the Stortinget and in line with the requirements outlined in the health insurance laws. Health laws require regional healthcare providers to ensure that the population is provided with the necessary specialist healthcare services. This means that regional health care providers are to plan services to ensure that their needs are cared for by people. At the supremacy level, this planning function is exercised in conjunction with the national political powers. Every year, regional health professionals shall draw up a notification of the plan of action of the enterprise. Such a plan is of a strategic and superior nature and shows clear key features in future operations within the framework of the state as owner. The Health Ministry’s management document does well for national objectives and for the concerns of regional health professionals through their activities, while making clear demands on performance targets. Every year health care providers are also reported on their results, according to the management requirements. In these plans, major structural changes may occur. As the Christian People's Party sees it, major structural changes in the hospital sector and major changes in the hospital supply will affect eelmenta. These plans allow the Ministry to identify which issues are of major importance and are therefore to be dealt with in the Business Meeting. It's here that it's possible to intervene politically. The same schedules are the starting point for a full plan and for the part in St.prp. No 1, which is provided every year. This is where Stortinget learns about the developments and plans of the specialist services. The size of the budget is therefore able to deal with and comment on this in the context of the State budget. Today’s existing rules and instruments therefore facilitate a continuous planning and management process. The intention of the proposal is therefore preserved, as the Christian People's Party sees it. The Christian People’s Party’s overarching objective of equal access to important health services suggests that the need for national governance to control the development of specialist services will continue to be addressed in the future. One must therefore always make sure that we have the instruments needed to achieve this goal. We believe that today's situation is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1161	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1165	Like the representative Bent Höie, I see quite a difference between that document no. The eight-proposal which has been advanced in this matter and that which was advanced in the previous one. There is a great difference in wanting to have a basis for a broad national strategic discussion in the Storting on the future of health policy, and to have submitted individual changes, perhaps even down to the hospital ward level, before they can be carried out in enterprises. That is why I support in many ways the intentions of the proposal to which Mr Ballo is a member of the rapporteurs. I believe that the planning and reporting system that I have described is a good response to some of the same intentions. There is nothing invented by the current Minister of Health. It is already enshrined in the Health Business Act Section 34, and I have described to Stortinget how I will deal with Stortinget in the follow-up to Section 34, about the planning and reporting system in health companies. We get the first test of whether the Storting is satisfied with that, in connection with St.prp. No 1, which is submitted until the autumn. I am prepared to develop this tool in line with the wishes of Stortinget on such a comprehensive and planned basis. In fact, I think it would be better to have such a coherent planning system, which is based on the planning system of health businesses, and which ends in an annual plan and notification part of the budget proposal from the Ministry of Health to the Stortinget, than to have a slightly more heavy and less flexible four-year plan in the form of a large-scale notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1174	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3103]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1182	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1189	Twelve proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-8, by Gunn Olsen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on proposal No. 9, by Gunn Olsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 10-12, from Sigbjørn Molvik on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1202	I ask for the floor for an explanation of vote!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1209	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund will have the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1212	Since the Minister of Health said during the debate that the Department is already preparing an action plan for increased physical activity, I recommend that the government parties vote in favour of proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1217	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10, 11 and 12, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a grant scheme to complete the daily distribution of free fruit and vegetables to all pupils in secondary school.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government to assess whether responsibility for the school health service in secondary schools should be transferred from the municipalities to the county municipalities.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to follow up the measures in St.meld. [[2002-2003]] No 16 and Document No 8:18 with a separate economic action plan.» [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1244	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a competence centre for chronic muscle pain/fibromyalgia at Jeleø Kurbad in Østfold.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1259	The proposals are then put to the vote. One, two, three, four, six, seven and eight from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to mitigate public health income and employment in the next long-term programme.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the responsibility for identifying the public health perspective in policy-making is respected and to ensure the development of knowledge for such impact assessment.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to develop a long-term strategy for the cohesion of social and economic differences in Norway in order to combat the major social inequalities in health.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all primary school children have physical activity at least one hour each day at school.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the need for support schemes for physical activity measures for groups that currently have few and mainly expensive offers.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote concrete action to follow-up NOU 1999:13 both in terms of how society affects women’s health and how women’s health can be better cared for in healthcare, in an appropriate manner over the coming long-term programming period.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure funding for women’s research and to ensure the establishment of research positions related to the centre of women’s and gender research. Women's Health Professorship is established at the medical faculties. Furthermore, the Government is asked to review the education plans of the higher education institutions in order to ensure the protection of the health perspective of women in health education. The measures shall be implemented during the forthcoming long-term programming period.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1307	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an action plan for increased physical activity. The plan must include concrete actions in several areas of society. The social partners must be actively involved in the work. The same must be true of the Norwegian Sports Federation. The size must be kept adequately informed of the work.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1328	The President expects the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre's subsidiary party to join the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1345	The President expects the Progress Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1397	During the debate, Mr Gunnar Ballo put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for major changes in the structure, location and level of capacity of specialist health services to be submitted to the Stortinget for treatment in order to ensure a comprehensive health offer to the entire population based on the basic values of the welfare state and healthcare system. in relation to emergency preparedness, psychiatry, maternity care and the ambulance service, shall not be implemented until such planned measures and changes have been addressed by the Stortinget.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1427	During the debate Ola D. Glötvold put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a national health plan which is completely revised every four years. This requires, among other things: The plan shall include a description of the overall structure of the specialist health service, including geographical allocation of resources, coordination between the different units and between the specialist health service and the first line service. The plan shall also include the provision of rehabilitation services at all levels and an overview and objective of the provision of treatment, resources and needs for primary health services, as well as a comprehensive overview and plan of the human resources of health services. The draft plan shall be submitted to the Storting for final approval before its implementation.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05.ana.ud2188e1460	There is no record.
