ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e56	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Workers' Party, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e65	Today one can say that Odelstinget is putting the last hand in the work, and the new food inspector can finally see the light of day by now adopting the law on food production and food security, etc. It was the government of Stoltenberg, with Minister of Agriculture Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who began to work with the new Food Authority, and who the government of Bondevik has now followed up by promoting Ot.prp. No 100 for 2002-2003. I think many people are excited about how the new food control will work, and how the supervision will work and cooperate with the individual stages of food production. The supervision shall be responsible for controlling the production from fjord or soil to table. This requires an inspection of insights both in production, on a large scale, as in factories, and in what is made by small niche producers, who may need information and advice as much as they need control. Here's a challenge that we hope and believe will be met by the Food Authority. The law we are dealing with today is an explicit law of authority. This means that the Storting will give up a number of powers and that a not insignificant number of regulations will probably be drawn up. It is also a challenge both that the Stortinge give away much of the governance and that it may be difficult for industries to find in the regulatory jungle. The size can only appeal to the departments, since we have now given the powers, to use the cautionary label when preparing regulations. We have to remember that one of the main reasons we agreed on a new food supervision was that things should be easier both for the authorities and for the oversight objects. There has been a great deal of consensus in the committee on this law, and it has therefore been quite easy to be the case rapporteur. It is also reflected in the setting. The changes that a unanimous committee has made are essentially corrections to the language, but there are also disagreements going out and going, which I will come back to. As far as the scope of the law is concerned, the Committee stresses that as important as being an oversight of food produced in Norway, the focus is on imports and exports. There are important links in several places in the chain, and one has to keep the same attention to these goods in the management of the law. One of the few places where a unanimous committee has amended the legal text is in Section 6 Prevention of danger, warning and implementation of measures. We are concerned with fairness in sales and production, and this is likely to become more and more in focus. We can experience that in food there are mixed substances or raw materials that are not harmful to health, but that we ethically or morally react to. To this end, the Committee asks that a new second sentence of the fourth paragraph, which reads as follows, be inserted in the law: «The King may give equivalent regulations on the prevention of dishonesty, warning and execution of actions, including information to the public.» This means that if a manufacturer is unfair in its production, this information may trigger consumer warning obligations. § 20 Food and animal health has been discussed less in the Committee than in the outings. When the Committee discussed the animal welfare notification earlier this year, the Committee fully agreed that we should keep our own animal protection law. It has also been agreed that good treatment of animals is also important for food safety. The Committee therefore fully agrees with the Government that it is necessary to include provisions establishing the basis for animal protection evaluations in relation to products derived from animals. The requirement of ethically sound animal husbandry is a prerequisite for the production of animals for food. That is why we believe it is natural that the food law also ensures this. So to the area where the committee has shared, that is, the provision on fees. I want to start with what we fully agree on, namely that it should be fees. What we disagree about is the number of activities to be covered by fees. The disagreements are quite well described in the setting, but I have to say something on behalf of the Workers' Party, as it is only I who will have the word from the Workers' Party in this matter. This has been a difficult matter, and it is not to hide that we have spent a lot of time discussing these charges, both in the context of the food law and in the context of the 2004 budget. The Labour Party had invested 100 million in its alternative budget. for just to reduce the fees. In the negotiations with the government parties we did not get through to this, and therefore we did not have these funds at our disposal. We had to take the consequences of when we went back and processed the new food law. There is no doubt that we are concerned about the high level of fees set for financing food surveillance. Therefore, the Workers' Party will closely monitor developments. It is unfortunate to start a new surveillance where one of the consequences is that we get a level of fees on Norwegian food, and in this case especially on meat, which allows the industry to have financial problems. We are therefore going to keep an eye on developments, and we will probably intervene if it turns out that one is not able to reduce the fees gradually. The government announced in the revised national budget that up to 90 pst. the costs could be covered by charges. This has now changed the majority of the committee to 80 pst, but still it seems to be something high because today's coverage, I understand, is 79 pst. Therefore, the effort to reduce the cost of the new food inspection needs to continue, which I am sure the Government will also contribute to. One of the intentions of the new Food Safety Authority was to reduce costs while getting the world’s best and most effective food surveillance. That must still be the goal, and we want the new food agency to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e102	Food law provides a basis for a holistic legislation in the field of food that ensures healthy food and promotes quality, consumer and market concerns and good animal and plant health. It is gratifying to see that there is a broad agreement that we have a good law in an important area. The legislative proposal regulates conditions along the entire food production chain from primary production to translation – the so-called soil/fjord to the table-tank. This is also a way of adapting to international food management. EU Food Law. A number of the Committee expect this major reform before food management to ensure that consumers are safe food and good animal and plant health in a better way than today and to ensure better quality services for users. The bill also simplifies the legal structure, by bringing together 13 laws in whole or in part in a law. Administratively, too, a rationalisation will gradually be achieved by bringing together four supervisory bodies in one new supervisory body. This is important, because there is no doubt that the big issue has our funding for the new food control. A majority in the Committee have gathered that up to 80 pst. the costs of the Food Authority may be covered by fees. For 2004, it is added to 76 pst. fee financing. The new funding model will reduce the number of schemes from today's 40 to around 20. The majority argue that economic efficiency gains should benefit the food industry and other users. The intention to establish a new food surveillance system was to reduce the costs for both the government and the supervisory bodies. An approximate reduction of this was suggested. 10 pst. relative to the operation of the previous supervision. A number of other members of the Committee have found reason to point to the high costs of meat inspection and other controls on meat products. It is unlikely to reduce these costs further down to a Nordic level. The majority therefore ask the Department to take efficiency initiatives and come back in spring 2004 with an assessment of cost-reducing measures in the short and long term. These measures must benefit the food industry and other users.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e113	The Progress Party believes that the Government’s proposal for a new food law contains a lot of good and will be an important contribution to ensuring health safe food. This is also duly mentioned in our comments in the settings. It's also mentioned that we have some objections. I would like to comment mainly on the facts and consequences related to Section 21 Fee and fee. I am very concerned about the extent of what the Government believes can be financed on a fee-and-fee basis under this paragraph. In our view, there is a strong need to clarify the boundaries between the business or the financial responsibility of the undertakings and the actual responsibility of the State. It would have been expected that, in the light of the proposed purpose paragraph of the new Food Act, the departments had presented some fundamental considerations on the financing of the administration, both in relation to the different policy areas to which the Act will apply and in the light of St.meld. No 17 for 2002-2003, on State supervision. In this context, there is every reason to stress that ensuring food safety and promoting health is part of health policy. Promoting consumer concerns in the field of food in addition to ensuring safe food is part of consumer policy. There is reason to believe that the administration of these areas by the Food Authority in food policy goes far beyond the supervision of the subjects under the provisions of the Food Act. Similar considerations apply both to the environmental and industrial policy aspects of the management responsibilities of the Food Safety Authority. The Progress Party believes that food safety oversight should mainly be covered by the State budget, as this is a very important area of society. We have difficulties in understanding that users will have to finance more than the activities associated with the production of certificates, declarations, direct supervision and costs, including analytical costs, related to the follow-up of infringements of the law. This means that the Party disagrees that the concepts of supervision and control can be defined as far as possible and that almost all tasks in food management can be covered. We say it loud and clear: costs related to monitoring and monitoring, costs related to the Scientific Committee, costs related to laboratory services purchased by the Food Safety Authority in support of general supervisory activities, costs related to communication and information activities to authorities and consumers, costs related to the emergency tasks of the Food Safety Authority, costs related to international work and costs related to the development of competence and administration are examples of costs that should not be financed by fees and charges applied to the oversight objects. For us, it is incomprehensible that the Government is in favour of the so-called broad principles for financing the new food supervision. In this context, there is reason to mention that, for example: the food industry already contributes with solid sums in the form of taxes and taxes, and the industry contributes significantly to the creation of value in society. New industrial pressures mean higher prices for consumers and can also distort competition from a borderline perspective. Norwegian food production and the food industry are increasingly exposed to international competition as a result of international agreements. Norwegian fishing industry is already exposed to international competition and the agri-food industry is becoming increasingly. The latter, in particular, is faced with major shifts and restructurings because part of the business is heavy-duty and low cost-effective. For a period when heavy roofs have to be taken, we believe it would be a little luck to charge the Norwegian food industry by up to 80 pst. of the activities of the new Food Safety Authority, as the majority submits. This will only mean increasing unemployment, and in a longer-term perspective there may be significant negative consequences for a food industry which is the second largest in mainland Norway with 50 000 jobs. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party that is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e130	The representative of Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e133	I would like to comment on three-four relationships in this new food law. The first thing goes on the point that animal welfare becomes part of the food law. We are very pleased with that in SV. Swallow if you have products from animals that are healthy to eat, and that's very good quality of the meat, I think consumers are now also concerned that these animals have had a life that is acceptable. So seeing this in context is very important. So over to what many people have been talking about, the level of fees. We in SV want us to work to get a fee level of max. 70 pst. which is subject to a burden on the industry. The reason is that in Norway today we have a high cost level, and we know that both agriculture and the food industry are struggling with it. It is therefore unreasonable that we should also get the highest in Europe on the fee side in the areas of industry. That's why we want to work to get down to 70 pst, and have put in a proposal for a maximum limit of 70 pst. charged to the industry with regard to the new food management. A third aspect that I want to address is that of guidance. We know that many of the inspections that are coming in time have a little bit of that kind of index finger -- you go around and watch out -- and a little bit like that. We believe it is important that the new food management also has a guidance job in relation to the manufacturers, so that good solutions can be found with the manufacturers and not just a mere controller. Many make mistakes – not by evil will, but simply because they can't do this enough. Then it is important that the new food administration also assume that role. Finally, I would like to take up a little curiosity that the entire committee agrees on, and that is that we are going to repeal the 1970 Act on the Prohibition of Picking Molte Maps. I have registered today that there is considerable interest around that very point in the new food law, but I have also registered that the entire committee agrees that we should repeal the law. For my part, I have to say that I'm more concerned that we pick too little berries than that someone picks some maps. However, if it turns out that some crowds of people are raging Norwegian mole animals and taking the map, we will have to take the matter back to Stortinget and possibly change the law. Then I will address the proposal that SV has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e148	The representative of Inge Ryan has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e151	The purpose of the Food Act is to lay the foundations for a coherent legislation in the field of food, which ensures the health of the population and promotes other relevant concerns in the field of food, such as quality, consumer considerations and market considerations, as well as good animal and plant health. I think the organisation of the new supervision facilitates good cooperation between the industries and the Food Authority. It is important for this monitoring to provide advice while ensuring that we have safe food of the right quality. It has also been of great importance for the Government to continue as far as possible the legal status of the various areas included in the Food Act and to establish a common legal basis for regulation throughout the food production chain, so that the principle of soil/fjord to table is followed by the law. The food law has been widely discussed in the media. This has to a large extent to do with the size of user funding. Here I think we in the committee have come up with a good solution. We have been decided that the house that determines the amount of food management expenditure, which is covered by income from fees and charges, is lowered to a maximum of 80 pst. This represents a reduction in relation to the original proposal for 90 pst. In addition, we have linked the future rationalisation benefit of the operation of the Food Safety Authority and meat control efficiency to this very user funding. This means that, in the long term, provision should be made for a lower proportion of user funding. Another aspect that might be interesting to dwell on is the food law in relation to meat prices. It is pointed out how user financing can lead to a complete disregard for meat prices with our neighbouring countries. I understand this, but will nevertheless point out that meat has been excluded for a long time in terms of food safety and control contributions. I refer here to what the Minister of Agriculture has said in relation to precisely this. Quality and safety will necessarily have to cost some money, while at the same time developing a new overall common legislation based on a soil/fjord-to-board perspective. Overall, the results we see in the Food Act are part of a major reorganization of food management that, in my view, supports under safe food with a focus on both consumers and animal conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e164	The rapporteur gave a good account of the facts of the case, and the decision that is being taken today is, as has been said, a decision on which there is a broad majority in the Grand Duchy behind it. The Committee is almost unanimous on all points. I just want to comment on a couple of relationships. It's good that we get a comprehensive food law that makes it possible to have a unified administration in this area, and not least a uniform control throughout the food chain. As a large food exporter, it is necessary that we have a control and a regime that makes us feel serious and proper in this area by our trading partners. With the increasing international trade in both live animals and foodstuffs, it is also necessary that we have the best possible control and a uniform control. It is no more than a year since we had scandals in several food chains in relation to how to handle food. It is, as representatives before me have said, one area in which there is disagreement, and it goes on funding the Food Authority. With the decision taken today, there is a significantly higher tax burden on us than is the case in our neighbouring country. We do that at a time when there is a pressure on food prices and we have a significant border trade. In the opinion of the Centre Party, an unacceptable high charging load is added. However, not only the level of the tax burden is, in our opinion, important. It is equally important, as was said by Øystein Hedstrøm, to define the tasks to be financed through a levy and the tasks to be financed from the State budget. I do feel, in the light of the experience we have gained in a number of other areas, that a decision on a maximum limit for what is to be financed through a levy is unlikely to be made over time. The capital has adopted guidelines on the amount of dividends to be collected from state companies and has stated in the guidelines that there should be 50 pst. Neither government nor growth is able to comply with the decisions that have been made in this area. We have now taken out 95 pst for two consecutive years. dividends from, inter alia: State power. Unfortunately, there is little reason to believe that you will not see the same developments in this area, when you are going to sew together a budget for Christmas in the College of Government and the next round of the Stortinge. Therefore, it would be beneficial to define precisely which tasks are to be financed by levy and which are to be financed by the State budget. The centre party will therefore vote against B and proposal No. 2, from SV, although it is the proposal that will lead to the lowest tax burden, precisely to demonstrate that we want a completely different model where it is clearly identified which tasks could be financed through a fee. Then I would not have mentioned the law prohibiting the picking of mole maps in my post. But who lives on an island where we not only pick moles, but also grow moles, I suppose I must almost follow up Inge Ryan's words. You can wonder why a law that confiscates four small paragraphs of the law is necessary to abolish it. But I'm afraid it's a pity to keep track of whether or not a mole map is being picked, so it's hardly a priority task either in the police or in the justice system in today's society, so in practice this is a dead law. I have had contacts from the media today, and we have recorded that this has actually been the big media issue today in connection with the decision on new food law. I believe that in this area as in so many other areas of society, we have to trust that people are using common sense. It is not possible to regulate everything and to use the judiciary and the police to follow up absolutely all the provisions. I think we get a good food law through the decisions, decisions, that the Storting does today. It is a law on powers, as the rapporteur has said, which requires considerable follow-up by the Government, and which will not least lead to a significant number of regulations to be complied with – a significant number of regulations to be dealt with by both small and large actors. That is why, as many people have said before, it is important that supervision also has advisory tasks for the actors in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e179	The proposal for a new food law is one of the four elements of the main reform that has been implemented in the field of food. The other elements have already given the Storting their support, but I mention them for the sake of coherence. In addition to the modernisation of legislation represented by the Food Act, the following amendments will be implemented from 1 January 2004: The professional and administrative responsibilities of the three food departments will be restructured. A new joint monitoring body, the Food Safety Authority, is in place from 1 January 2004. The primary task of food supervision is to ensure that supervision and control help to ensure that consumers are fed in a safe and healthy way. Furthermore, the support functions of the Food Authority have been reorganised, and we are among others. in the process of establishing a new independent scientific committee to carry out risk assessments. The Scientific Committee shall be organised under the Ministry of Health. The EU has also established a new independent scientific body, the European Food Safety Authority, EFSA. The proposal for a new food law covers the entire production chain from fjord and soil to table and combines all or part of 13 of today's food laws. The idea of a food management that extends throughout the food production chain reflects a desire for a comprehensive management of food policy, and the new law reflects this whole chain of thought. There is a growing awareness that the final product is a result of the quality of raw materials and inputs, such as fish and other animals, feed, seeds, fertilisers and pesticides, as well as through further processing, storage, packaging, placing on the market and presentation. If the quality or treatment of the products results in adverse health consequences for the food, food management that concentrates only on the final stage will be inefficient and less targeted. At the same time, the final product is the consumer's meeting in store shelves, in restaurants, in hospitals, in institutions and in the corner kiosk. The government’s approach to ensuring food security will therefore be based on an overall approach covering all stages of the chain and their coherence. The focus is also on whole chain thinking internationally. From an international perspective, in recent years the EU has been strongly committed to the development of a new overall common land- and fjord-based legislation. The EU has established a Regulation – Food Law – that harmonises the requirements for all existing and future food legislation at Community level. Food Law emphasises a clear division of roles between science, management and politics and strives for full transparency in food security decisions. The food law and the new organisation of food management have laid down the same principles. The legislation will be proposed in the EEA Agreement during the spring and will be laid down as a regulation based on the Food Act. Through its purpose, the law emphasises the demands of the population on food of health safety and the aspirations of the population in terms of quality and other consumer considerations throughout the production chain. Drinking water is covered by the legal concept of food and there is a greater emphasis than before on securing drinking water sources. The law must promote good plant and animal health in food production, but also in general. The objective of ensuring market access abroad primarily safeguards our large and important exports of fish and aquatic organisms, but also includes, of course, ensuring market access for Norwegian agricultural products. One of the most important messages of the law is that it is the producer himself, whether it is the producer of the inputs or the finished products, who is responsible for the health safety of the products. Public responsibility is to provide regulatory supervision, control and guidance so that we achieve the aims of the law. It is also a goal that food should be felt as safe. This requires authorities to have a specific focus on consumers’ needs for information and knowledge. Against this background, it is proposed for the first time that the legal right to information for consumers in the event of a health hazard is proposed. If food is to be safe and trusted by consumers, proper control is important. Through the Food Authority, we will have a supervisory body that follows the production process from the intermediate stage to the food reaches the consumer. The Food Act follows up the establishment of new supervision to modernise the legal basis for supervisory instruments. The instruments of supervision have been strengthened, inter alia: by the possibility of imposing quarantine on establishments which are not subject to imposition or otherwise seriously contravene food law. The extended possibility of the Food Act provides the Food Authority with unsolicited information directly to consumers on relevant supervisory findings will also be an effective tool for achieving fairness and compliance. Modern food production, often on a large scale, leads to serious consequences of health-threatening food. The criminal framework of the law has therefore been strengthened and made uniform for all types of businesses. It is also proposed that infringements be dealt with in a simplified manner, so as to improve the effectiveness of penalties. The draft law is otherwise constituted as a power of attorney. The food law provides for horizontal provisions, where the regulatory body will supplement them with the necessary detailed requirements. The food area is a well-regulated area that has been largely harmonised with EU legislation, and most of today’s regulations will continue under the new law. The efficiency gain by coordinating the regulations along the whole production chain has not been time to take out now, but will be one of the tasks that will be undertaken in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e214	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e217	The Committee sent a letter to the Minister of Health to which we were given a response regarding the amount of duties paid by the agents, i.e. the companies, by the expenditure of the Food Safety Authority. The answer from the Minister of Health was that the direct costs in the companies, which it is reasonable for the companies to pay, were 30 p.m. expenditure by the Food Authority. But the other 70 pst. In fact, these businesses contribute a great deal. They cannot take these costs out by reducing their margins, because many meat establishments are so well balanced. So my question to the Minister of Health is, why is it logical that businessmen should cover more than twice the cost to the State of overseeing the subjects of duty, when the other costs relate to the obligations that the State itself has in relation to consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e222	It is not uncommon in the Norwegian administration that we have a fee financing for supervisory tasks as well as administrative tasks aimed at business. In the area of health – which is just addressing many of the same issues as the issue we are discussing today – we have, for example, the State Medicines Agency, which has supervisory tasks, control tasks and administrative tasks in relation to an important industry, where we have a fee funding of up to 99 pst. So the principle applied in this area is not specific to the food area. There is something that has also been applied to other areas of the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e227	It is true, as the Council of State says, that in a number of other areas we also have fee financing and financing through probabilities. Unfortunately, there has been a tendency to increase in this area in recent years. My question to the Council of State is: does not the Council of State see that all the time you finance almost all of your business through fees, that there are no incentives to streamline and reduce your tasks when you will be paid for all the tasks you perform, and that in this way you do not achieve the results you might want by bringing them together in a single unit and thus streamlining supervision?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e234	I agree with the representative, Mr Enoksen, that a business such as the Food Safety Authority must have clear requirements for efficiency improvement and incentives for efficiency in relation to the tasks it has set itself. I can assure you that the significant reorganisation of the service sector in the context of the reforms on 1 January 2004 is precisely calling for greater efficiency. It's not like you're adding up to a 100 pst here. fee financing. It has also made a clear distinction in its majority position. I therefore believe that there is a good balance between the efficiency requirements that need to be made by the contracting department, administrative and management, and what lies within the very incentives of the funding system for efficient operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e239	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The regulatory time for the evening meeting is now over. [[See page 233]] The President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e259	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Workers' Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e266	As we heard in the introduction, this is an aggregate proposition of changes in various laws as a result of the establishment of the new food surveillance system. Just a short time ago this evening we discussed the new Food Act, and we are now dealing with it as a result of the amendments to the Animal Protection Act, the Veterinary and Other Animal Health Personnel Act and the Animal Breeding Act. The main reason for promoting these changes is that a new facility for the fee and fee financing of food management is now required. In addition, one wishes to supervise the animal protection legislation to the ministry, for further delegation to the Food Authority. I want to take the individual laws separately, and start with changes to the Animal Protection Act. One of the amendments proposed is a new supervisory model. In the major communication on animal protection and animal health, which was discussed by the Stortinget in the spring, the Government proposed to reduce the role of animal protection scientists in the field of animal protection by providing them with an advisory function. That's what Stortinget said no. We wanted animal welfare officers to continue to exercise oversight and decision-making powers. There, Stortinget was very clear in his remarks. In the new legislative proposal, the Government has followed up this, but in addition, decision-making powers have also been conferred on veterinarians in the Food Authority. We see that this can cause problems, because it becomes two terms with the same decision-making authority, i.e. a dual supervisory competence under the Animal Protection Act. In other words, they are equalised. Now this doesn't have to be negative. This only means that both the denominators and the Food Safety Authority can supervise and conduct studies as well as provide guidance on animal husbandry. So in addition, they can impose on animal owners and take animals in temporary storage. As a result of the organisation of the Food Safety Authority, fewer mentions and fewer local offices will be provided by veterinarians. But when both have the same authority, this can be compensated. Some claim that we shouldn't have had animal protection subjects, because they're made up of doctors. But when one now reduces the number of subjects significantly, it will also be easier to teach the members of the denominators so that they get the skills they need to carry out their duties. What we're concerned about, however, is that the denominators aren't being reduced and neglected. I hope, and I am convinced, that the Government of the Minister of Agriculture has come to understand this and follow it up in its further work. Then these changes also consist of paragraphs on fees and charges. Like the treatment of this in the food law, there is also disagreement in the committee. The government has been working on a simplified funding model that has led to reactions from the same industries that have responded to the level of fees associated with food law. The principles followed by the Government must lead to simplification, lower administrative costs and enable the whole food production chain to be seen in the context. In addition, a non-intentional link shall be established to the priorities of food management. The parties that form the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the SV, support this, but will also point out that when a person makes up such a simplified funding model that can lead to some duty-paying entities, as they call them, who feel unfair, a charge must be applied at the lowest possible level. I could have said a lot about these fees, but I feel that we discussed the fees in connection with the processing of the Food Safety Authority, and that this has been debated in a way. That's why I don't go into it anymore. The minority will justify its proposals in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e300	The proposal includes proposals for amendments to the Animal Protection Act, the Veterinary and Other Animal Health Personnel Act and the Animal Breeding Act. The proposals focus on adaptations to the funding model proposed by the Government in the field of food. The Progress Party has a completely different view from that of the Government regarding the financing of supervision of activities. To the extent that supervision is to be financed by fees and charges, this must be limited to services directly related to supervision. The concept of supervision in this proposition and in the proposal for a new food law is broader, including many administrative tasks other than supervision. There may be general preparedness for food and health crises, general monitoring and monitoring, administrative support functions and competence development, laboratory services, scientific assessments, R & D-based management support, communication and social contacts, to mention something. The Progress Party cannot accept the Government's proposal for an extended supervisory concept. The reason is that actors, or obligators, will be made financially responsible for the activities of future food surveillance in areas that are irrelevant to many of them. In this respect, I would like to draw attention to the sixth paragraph of Chapter 2.2 of the Proposition, which states: ‘The financing model shall appear as simple, transparent and logical for the users and consumers of supervision. There shall be a logical link between the tasks performed by the food management and the way in which they are financed.’;» For us, it doesn't make sense to, for example, producers of mineral waters are financially responsible for the supervision of animal health in pet animals, animal welfare and veterinary watch systems. Similarly, it is not logical that seafood producers should be made financially responsible for the supervision of public regulations on bovine animals and horse breeding. The proposals appear to be irrelevant to the obligation entities, or, to put it another way, they are actually about fiscal charges, which we will oppose. The government has clearly changed its view on the concept of supervision. In the big news of state supervision, the government had a completely different supervisory concept, which got Storting's approval at the time. A new and extended supervisory concept has now been introduced covering a wide range of regulatory tasks other than supervision. According to the proposal, there are only two non-supervisory tasks for food management and there are regulatory developments and international negotiations and meetings. As mentioned above, these are unacceptable principles for financing the tasks of the Food Authority for the Advance Party. We find it wrong that the supervisory objects, in addition to ordinary taxes and charges, should specifically finance not only the specific supervision of themselves, but also other tasks of the management, whether or not they are supervisory. We also have a food industry and a meat industry that is gradually exposed to international competition and is under pressure so that it cannot bear these charges alone. If this is realized, the industry's people warn that there will be price increases, with the negative consequences and effects that this entails. Therefore, the Progress Party has alternative proposals to ensure that businesses are only burdened with expenditure that is limited to the service performed and directly related to supervision. There will then be a cost for each company which is fair and which will not be overburdened by the competing industry in other countries. I would like to mention proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Central Party, and Proposal No. 2, on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e324	The representative Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e327	This is a matter on which we are relatively agreed, and that is why it will not be the big debate either. With regard to the level of fees, I agree with the rapporteur that it was discussed in the previous case, so I do not think there is any reason to re-examine it. On the other hand, I have taken the floor to comment on one aspect. A broad majority of the Committee says that there should be at least one animal protection study in each of the local areas of the Food Safety Authority – I stress: at least one animal protection study. We know that Norway is a long-distance country, and for some local areas there are quite large areas we are talking about. Therefore, it is important not to become too greedy to establish the number of animal protection names, thereby losing the overview that it is important for an animal protection class to have. We in SV are also positive to the idea that both laymen and professionals need to be involved in animal welfare. That mixture we think is very healthy. This allows you to acquire the expertise you need, and at the same time the local knowledge that is absolutely necessary to enable you to operate the animal protection subjects in a good way. And in a good way, we don't least think about this with preventive animal protection work, that you can use a lot of resources, so that it's not just when there's animal tragedy at the time the animal welfare students intervene, but that you can use the resources to provide guidance and advice before animal tragedy occurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e336	After what has been said so far, there is only one relationship I feel the need to comment on, and I would like to ask the Council of State to comment on when he gets the floor. The draft law provides for the Ministry to have the competence to appoint animal protection students. The Ministry shall, in turn, delegate to the Authority. It appears to me as a small remarkableity and as illogical that the body to be the Secretariat of the Animal Protection Names should be responsible for appointing the same names, and that the Food Safety Authority, which in several areas has the exact same competence to take decisions as the animal protection name is given, should also appoint the names. So I'm going to ask the council to consider holding on to the system we have today, where it's the county that's responsible for appointing the animal protection subjects. I have problems dealing with the reasons that are used to prevent the statesmen from having this responsibility, when they say in the proposition: ‘It has proved difficult to obtain sufficient information from all the counties.’ This is mentioned in connection with the county's responsibility for the appointment of animal protection subjects. It seems a little remarkable and should not really be a problem. I believe that both the denominators and the Food Authority will be seen as a bit remarkable that those who have a secretariat function, and who partly have the same competence, will also appoint these names. So I'm going to ask the Council of State to comment on that in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e348	I shall limit my intervention to dealing with the debate so far as it has been essentially about, namely the new supervisory model in the Animal Protection Act. I can confirm what the case rapporteur said in his statement, that here the department will follow up on what is Storting's will. The supervisory authority is added to the department by the Food Authority and it is the animal protection subjects who are delegated powers and who are subject to the administrative command. It is also the case today that the number of names is being reduced, but the role is to be maintained. And I have noticed the views that have come, among other things. by Mr Ryan, on behalf of the Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Left/Nordic An important theme has been the dual competence between animal welfare students and district veterinarians, as it is also in the current situation. One has a lot of experience in that it doesn't involve major conflicts in practice. But we also know that in some cases there has been double supervision, and that is not rational. As we see it, when the names come under the supervision of the Food Safety Authority, such double supervision will be pre-established through the legislation, regulations and guidelines to be developed, where the conduct of inspections and interactions between the denominators and the Food Safety Authority will be defined, so that supervision will be both appropriate and rational. They may also be imposed by instructions on an activity obligation, which one has not been able to impose in the past, which has just caused problems due to wide variation in activity level among the denominators. The size will be appropriately briefed on the functioning of the monitoring of the Animal Protection Act according to the new supervisory model. In addition, a major effort has been made to revise the entire Animal Protection Act, with the background to the EEAG being addressed six months ago. The implications of size management in relation to animal protection subjects will be taken into account in the preparation of the final supervisory model. And the final bill is expected to be promoted by the Stortinget during 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e357	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 239]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e373	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e380	On behalf of the case rapporteur, I refer you to the position of the Business Committee on the law on changes to the Law of the Court of Justice and the Law on Change of Land, Ot.prp. No 106 for 2002-2003, which is the final step in the definition of the organisational form of land parcels. What has been the main theme has been whether the court should continue as a specialised court or hold the role of an independent administrative body. The decision we've made is that the land change rights continue as a special court. It has been a broad and comprehensive round before the Government made its recommendation, which is based on the results of the Løken Committee. This sample was set up in 2000 with the task of assessing the position and functions of the land change rights. Soil change goes as far back as the land law of 1274. This area has evolved continuously until the right to land change we have today. The purpose is to clarify property in border or judicial proceedings. The right to land change is therefore an important institution to ensure legal certainty for landowners in Norway, at a time when many believe that the legal security of landowners is under pressure. What has been important in the process of changing the position and functions of the right to change has been the respect of democracy, the principle of independence, the interests of legal certainty and the confidence of the people. These principles have been the starting point for discussions on the future organisation of the rights of land change. As a result of the proposals made, it is proposed that the land-exchange rights be transferred administratively from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Court of Justice of Trondheim. This will have the effect that the right to change will have the same independent position in relation to the exercise of power as the General Courts. The responsibilities of the Land Change Act remain in the Ministry of Agriculture, and tasks related to budget and judicial appointments are proposed to be transferred to the Ministry of Justice. The unit will continue with a decentralised structure. I think it is appropriate that the right of land change should continue to be organised as a special court, not as an independent administrative body, and this, together with the other proposals for amendments to this matter, is a whole business committee behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e395	As there is such a consensus in the committee, as the representative Andersen Eide has explained, I have really only a few questions to the Council of State. Both in the Løken range, in Ot.prp. No 106 and in the opinion of the Committee, it is noted that there is now a need for a total review of the law on landslides. The background is that there have been a number of individual changes in the law since 1979. The legal provisions have therefore gradually been uncoordinated. The result is that the law has become unwieldy, and that it is very difficult to understand for users as well as for those who are working on the land change rights. It is therefore important that a broad review of the whole law is now carried out as soon as possible. When does the Council of State consider such a review to have been carried out? In our opinion, it cannot be necessary to wait for the transfer process to be completed in relation to the court administration, in which case much time will be lost. Would it not therefore make sense for the review to start as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e409	The current approach is the last step in defining the organisational form of the land change rights. The main question has been whether or not to proceed as a specialised court, as they have been since 1857, or whether to transform them into an independent administrative body. The Government’s conclusion that the succession rights should be continued as a special court is, which has also been established by an overall committee, based in principle on the principles of independence and other key principles of law. I share in all main the assessments and conclusions of an overall onion committee expressed in Chapter 7 of NOU 2002: 9, on the position and functions of land change rights. I also refer to the broad support this has received in the hearing for the investigation and from the committee. The MMI study, which was carried out in connection with the work of the Løken Committee, shows – not surprisingly – that the rights to land change are highly trusted in society. In the announced work on legislative changes, which the Ministry will start in 2004, the Ministry will take with it the views expressed through the study. I am therefore particularly pleased that the Committee joins the two pillars of the Government for the forthcoming legislative work: the necessary legislative changes to the law resulting from the underlying principle decision to continue the rights of land change as a special court to the merits of the land change rights, inter alia. by providing the parties with legal and technical services in a single case, and by facilitating the rules of procedure for self-proclaiming parties; I have noticed that a unanimous onion selection, with broad support in the hearing, is asking that borderline cases should be added exclusively to the land change rights, which today have approx. 90 pst. of these matters. The committee justifies this, inter alia: in order to limit overlapping competences, taking into account the fact that the technical apparatus may limit the scope of disputes, the reconstruction and detection of boundaries in the field, and not least for the purpose of our matrix system. I see it as important that the bordermark be coordinated, as it has been done and done in Europe elsewhere. This, in my view, is an important part of our national infrastructure and is of great importance for the mortgage and economic dynamism of society. I have also noticed that a collective Løken-committee proposes that the lumbar gender be added to the land change rights. In particular, it should be emphasised that damage to natural environment should be assessed under their competence. I will follow up on these proposals when the mandate for new law on land change will be given in the first half of 2004. The provisions for entry into force of the recommendation for a decision shall be based on a split date of entry into force. The provisions on the appointment of land change judges and land change judges, in accordance with Basic Law Section 22, will enter into force immediately after the new year. Other provisions are unlikely to enter into force until the administrative part of the land-change rights is in place at the Court of Justice of Trondheim. In the meantime, following consultation with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Agriculture will use similar procedural procedures for the appointment of land change judges who have been previously practised by appointment. To the question from Mr Gaundal, I share her impatience in getting the necessary reform work going. It is a difficult modernisation work in this piece of legislation that stands before us. I said in my post that we will get started with this over Christmas. The reality is that we're in the process, parts of this are already at the hearing, among other things. the question of urban land change and the question of mandate. I imagine that here we will be able to have a gradual advance, where we can come to Stortingen with proposals for the modernisation of the law gradually, so that we can get started quickly and also deliver results. But we must expect that it will take a few years for us to have a complete modernisation of the law, but we must get moving quickly, and we must also be able to get to Stortinget with the first modernisation proposals quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e435	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 242]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e451	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the spokesperson of the case, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to post from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e460	Law on Innovation Norway is a follow-up to the instrument proposal that the Stortinget dealt with on 18 June this year. The Committee agrees on a number of issues concerning the new company Innovation Norway. What we're all concerned about is we're going to have an instrument that is so-called proactive. Proactive is a new motto, but that means that we're going to have an instrument that is more cooperative and more solution-oriented than before, and that's less concerned with rules, this about being a little banking when it comes to dealing with applications. We need an instrument that goes far more to business and looks for good solutions so that businesses can create good and safe jobs around the country. The Committee says that we should have a ‘negligible instrumentation’. That means we're going to have a much better coordination between the different actors. Now four of these actors are joining forces in one company, Innovation Norway, while we are also going to have the other players in a user front. The Committee is very concerned that this should work in such a way that the industries and businesses experience meeting one door, and that one avoids spending time and effort on running around and getting different responses at different places, and is shown from one office to the other. Otherwise, several members of the committee were surprised when we got this proposition from the Government and read the purpose section, § 1. There they had chosen to take out the word ‘district’. Personally, I wondered at the outset whether it was a typographical error. We know that when started with the district development fund in 1951, the “district” was the big word in terms of the purpose of that body. Later, in the early 1990s, the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund was established, where ‘districts’ were still an essential part of the instrument. Now, when we got the proposition about this third body, the successor, named Innovation Norway, the word ‘district’ was removed from the purpose paragraph. Now, fortunately, we have many wise heads in the committee. So this was almost unanimously corrected – with the exception of the Progress Party – and now the purpose paragraph again has ‘district’ with it as part of the purpose of Innovation Norway. And I as the case rapporteur must say that I am very pleased that there is no doubt that Innovation Norway is going to work in particular with business development throughout the country, and that also applies to the districts, and the districts are the areas of Norway where there is some widespread settlement. A third aspect that we have discussed in the Committee is whether the primary industries should have a place in the board of directors of the new Innovation Norway unit. There is probably a majority in the Committee that agrees that efforts should be made to have a composition of the boards reflecting the industries in the area. It is not a majority to propose that the primary industry should enter the board. However, if you read the Committee's comments, it is a majority that clearly points out that you want the primary industries to be part of the board as well – where it is natural around the country. A fourth aspect that I would like to point out concerns the relationship with the EEAS. We now get the Export Council as part of Innovation Norway. We have many foreign stations around the country, and conflicts can easily arise between Innovation Norway and the embassies around it. We in SV believe it is important not to get too many conflicts and disagreements that prevent the job to be done, and believe that Innovation Norway must have the opportunity to instruct station managers around the foreign stations, so as to avoid unnecessary slowing down of business when they are going to go into the big world with their products. Finally, I would like to point out a little bit of a proposal that only the Progress Party and SV have promoted. We want to have the impact of providing the instrument with a four-year budget framework. I know it's a little special proposal, but at the same time, we know that business demands long-term. It's hard to see that there's a new framework from year to year, and the need to know something more about how it's going to get further in time is very big. This may apply not only to business but also to other areas of society. It would have been interesting to figure out the consequences, to try it out in an area, like this. in Innovation Norway, and see whether it would in some way improve business life — although this also has some disadvantages. It is not a majority in favour of this proposal, but it promotes it, together with the Progress Party. I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e481	The representative Inge Ryan has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e484	The company Innovation Norway shall see the day’s light on 1 January 2004. We have discussed this with innovation in Norway and the establishment of the company on several occasions this autumn. It's been exciting to follow the process a little bit from the side bar. I have to say that we have great faith in the new company and the opportunities it offers for cooperation across industries, which we have not seen before. Getting portals that make people go somewhere and get help is very good. Today we are dealing with the bill for the new special-law company. As the setting shows, there is not much that we disagree about. But we've changed something in relation to the government's proposal. The main change was made in the purpose paragraph. There, the Government had omitted the word ‘district’, as the Advocate-General mentioned. This is now in place, and we're satisfied with that. The company should contribute to triggering business opportunities throughout the country, regions and districts. It is important that one has the opportunity to invest funds across districts and regions. We've seen more examples of this in SND's history. Innovation Furniture is such a programme, which embraces enterprises in several regions. Therefore, there must be no dense bulkheads between the regions that prevent one from exploiting resources throughout the country. The tourism industry is also such an area. The working party therefore underlines the importance of having instruments that are nationwide and that can be used in a way that makes sense in relation to individual industries. It is the purpose and scope of the company — as well as its organisation. It is important that Innovation Norway becomes a company for small and medium-sized enterprises, which themselves do not have enough equipment for example. profiling abroad or finding environments that can contribute to product development and better design. So to the women. SND has been investing in women and innovation in recent years. The working party and SV are very busy that this will continue. All the experience shows that it takes a little more to make women bet for themselves than for men to do it. Therefore, it is necessary to have a separate investment on women. As we say in the setting, 17 pst went. of the appropriations allocated to economic instruments to women in 2002. We want this to increase. We could have done like the government parties, just said this should be increased, but we believe that one must be more focused than that. So we're asking for at least 30 pst. of the nationwide schemes shall go to women-settled projects. What I am now saying is addressed to the government parties and especially to SV. Is it important that there are nationwide arrangements? If not, this request has been rejected. It's an exciting company that starts on 1 January. In the future, the size must help to ensure that this company has good enough tools to work with. We wish the new company good luck and hope that it will contribute to more innovation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e501	I am pleased that the Government in all material respects is fully aware of its proposals in the follow-up to this matter. What has been said here by previous speakers about purpose paragraphs, etc., are matters that have completely the disintegration of the government parties. The word ‘districts’, the districts and the most deprived areas are the full priority in the work now under way by the Government in this area, in the budget relating to the areas of the Economic and Social Committee, which was adopted on Tuesday. The fact that this time too, in the course of next year, you choose to give priority to the most deprived areas in this country, I don't think it's hard to defend at all. It is their turn this time, and I assume that the whole Storting ends up doing the further work. I believe that the rapporteur has followed up in a good manner the work which was adopted in its origins in ours, and which is being followed up today with the establishment of the new innovation and internationalisation company. This means that we have a more targeted tool in place, and we actually need an instrument that is adapted for tomorrow to the new competitive situation of Norwegian companies, and that participates in a much more globalised scheme and with a different more borderless economy than has been the case when we see a few decades back in history. For this reason, we need a limitless instrument, where the commercial instruments currently under SND, SVO, the Norwegian Tourist Council and the Norwegian Export Council must be seen in a broader context, and through the company Innovation Norway we will achieve this. There is also every reason to be satisfied with the pace at which this process has been carried out. It's a gigantic process that will soon end up having the new company in place from the turn of the year. And it'll certainly take a lot to get everything through in such a short time. There is every reason to pay tribute to those who are responsible for this follow-up in the ministry. That means that we are totally dependent on succeeding in this area if we are to achieve the good intentions of the Stortinge in dealing with this matter. What we're achieving now is that we're getting really robust units around the country, and to the extent that travel life, export and innovation really matter, it's important that the individual units that are now being established can be established in a smooth and robust way. It is very important that the county units that get the respective offices in place see the possibility of getting the outdoor equipment around, preferably at 17 different arenas around the country, where we draw the knowledge and competence of the Norwegian Tourist Council and the Norwegian Council of Exports to the respective units. With the knowledge and market contact that this will bring, it will now provide District Norway with a completely different and much better apparatus to handle and serve business around the country. That's why I believe that if we take this opportunity into account, and that business and public administration now see the opportunity that is given them, along with the opportunities that we also provide financially in the form of regional seed funds, and also other opportunities in the field of economic policies for trade and business, this will be a joy, favor and development for the whole of District Norway. But it is also a prerequisite that the four units now merged demonstrate the necessary ability, will and motivation to move forward. If they succeed there, the final result is then. That means we can see tomorrow light in a meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e514	The Stortinge deals with the necessary legislative proposals in connection with the establishment of the new foundation law Innovation Norway. This unit has high expectations, which aim to become the main public institution with its contribution to innovation, growth and internationalisation. Many inventors, entrepreneurs and industrialists have missed an establishment with easy access to public tools and a more coordinated offer as part of getting a simpler everyday life. Let's hope that expectations will be met. In order to achieve this, the Progress Party believes that the company should be given a high degree of freedom to evolve in different directions and that the Storting should therefore not provide for strong leadership that could impede creativity and development within the economic and legal frameworks set. The organisation of the company, as set up by the Government, seems to be sensible. The Board of Directors shall be given a high degree of freedom in the internal organisation, with a full responsibility towards the owner. District offices are given the opportunity to develop differently without legalising governance and structure. It is also reasonable not to grant some industries exclusive rights to the representation of directors. Regional conditions related to the challenges facing business there should be crucial for the competences represented in individual governance. The partnership with EEAS and increased ability to provide the necessary services to the business community in the internationalisation process can be the main challenge for the new company. From the third quarter of last year to the third quarter of this year, we have lost 21 000 industrial jobs. Export-related enterprises in a significant number of countries are partly confused and partly out of business. Geir Storeng, Chairman of Euro Export Invest, said to the evening post on 24 November: ‘It is not products, technology or cost levels that prevent Norwegian companies from achieving international success. The reason is a lack of knowledge and focus on building international organisations, relations and market transparency.’ Many Norwegian companies are unprepared to take market shares abroad. They underestimate the need for time, resources for investment and how to build the necessary relationships. Often the result is an unfocused and random bet. Therefore, the new company will be very important in lifting Norwegian export companies to success. The proposal for a law does not specify any priority for sectors. The principle of business neutrality should, of course, be at the bottom, but we should nevertheless ensure that we have internationally competitive framework conditions in the industries where we already have competence or obvious natural advantages vis-à-vis other countries. When the new company is given great freedom to design the use and composition of the instruments, it is important to see the need to have the expertise needed to raise and prioritize certain industries, knowledge and technology environments. The new founding right provides a wide range of skills, tools and combination opportunities, and improves success. So far we have had a more fragmented tool. Many of the most important schemes promoting innovation have been channelled through SND. Although SND has been a central player in entrepreneurship and business development, a survey conducted by the FA shows that only 40 pst. by members' companies have heard of SND. Of these companies, it's 32 pst. who experience difficulties in informing themselves about loan and grant options. Therefore, the new unit, which is given greater breadth, opportunities and resources to play, has a much better starting point for developing Innovation Norway as a brand. A comprehensive policy environment supports the establishment and hopes that one will ensure that both bud shoots and existing businesses become more innovative. On behalf of the Progress Party, I hope that this can be one of several strategies that can help Norway gradually take a close position in terms of technology development and competitiveness. I would like to mention proposal No. 1 on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, and Proposal No. 2 on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e538	The representative Øystein Hedstrøm has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e541	In the Business Committee we discussed earlier this year St.prp. No 51 for 2002-2003, Means for an innovative and innovative business. At the same time, through the examination of this case, Stortinget agreed to set up a new innovation and internationalisation company – Innovation Norway. From 1 January 2004, this company will be responsible for the management of the commercial resources currently under SND, SVO, the Norwegian Tourist Council and the Norwegian Export Council. In relation to the organisation of this new unit itself, questions have naturally been raised about what kind of form it should take. It is decided to set up a separate company by law, a special law company. These have been very important clarifications, because the company must be a tool for the economic, trade and regional policies of the authorities, while at the same time there must be a service institution and a pre-missive provider for policy-making. An important objective of the company shall be to manage and develop instruments to contribute together to increased innovation in business across the country, focusing on different districts and the business opportunities of different regions. The instruments in question apply for the first time to finance, including grant, loan, guarantee and equity schemes. Secondly, there is advice and empowerment for the third network and infrastructure and for the fourth profiling of Norwegian business abroad. The target group is initially SMEs, entrepreneurs and others with growth potential. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to point out the importance of the development of large parts of innovation in already established, large-scale, companies where we have long-standing traditions throughout generations. Such businesses are more of my district. I don't think this has worked out well enough. The optimism and momentum of different innovation environments are positive. We have experienced this, for example: on several trips of the Business Committee. In this context, I must mention a national pilot project, ‘Center of Expertise’, which is now being opened in December in Ålesund, a project to develop partnerships between knowledge producers, businesses and public authorities. It should be a centre that takes advantage of the expertise, knowledge and experience that are already in the business world, and further develop it for innovation and innovation for our region. So back to Innovation Norway. For users it will now be easier to get in touch with and get an overview of the instruments, through this coordination of the instruments. We in the Christian People's Party believe it is important to point out that it should be a goal that a greater proportion of the funding to the instrument contributes positively to the further development of the gender and gender perspective in business. The instruments need to be more targeted at women’s way of acting and organizing, in order to make greater use of the overall innovative potential. It will also be interesting to follow the county councils in this respect, as they have been given a strong role as development actors in the development of regional business plans and strategies. With regard to the office structure itself, we are concerned that it should mainly follow the state structure. The big effort Agriculture Pluss will be one of the central tasks of Innovation Norway. This is a priority task and it is essential to involve the agricultural industry and the public actors concerned in cooperation. Given the size of agriculture in Innovation Norway, it is important that this industry is represented in Innovation Norway's regional governments, with representatives appointed on the basis of proposals from industry organisations. It will be exciting to follow the course and see how Innovation Norway will contribute to increasing innovation capacity in practice. I believe this, and I think that, together with the right focus, we can get more innovation through an organisation that adds up to more cooperation and coordination of instruments, as well as raising awareness of strategies and objectives of innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e567	Substantial structuring and reorganisation of the instrument has taken place over a relatively short period of time. This is a reorganization which has undoubtedly been demanding, both for the organisations concerned, for the employees and also for the users. Just to taste the name of the new unit – Innovation Norway – tells us that we have taken a rather long leap from what was the Industrial Bank, the State Agriculture Bank, the State’s Fiskarbank and the District Development Fund. One might wonder whether it is possible to carry out all the tasks that have been assigned to these different units, including within the new unit, especially in view of the violent rationalisation that has taken place in recent years within these organisations. It may well be understood that, at times, there has been frustration both in terms of changes in the financial framework and in the lack of appropriations, which means that many good projects have had to be rejected and not least with many good employees in a relatively short period of time. But I think the organization you've found up to now will be fine. Contributing to the growth of innovation is crucial for the economic development of the country, and it must be at the heart of its work in the future. At the same time, it is important to take care of what is good and to provide opportunities to develop the projects and enterprises that have development opportunities but do not primarily engage in innovative activities. However, they may need state co-financing in order to realise what may prove to be good projects. This type of activity must also be safeguarded within Innovation Norway, within this organisation which is now being established and within the financial framework put at its disposal. A majority of the Committee strongly emphasises the need to maintain a heavy rural profile in Innovation Norway. It's not for no reason. District Norway continues to face significant challenges. While there is a high potential for the development of business and housing in District Norway, it is a paradox that, year after year, one-sided centralisation is almost felt. At the top of what has happened, there are the challenges associated with increased costs due to the conversion of the employer’s fee. Industry has challenges, and not least we see them in the marine sector. These circumstances require a strong focus on the rural profile, as the majority of the Committee has also underlined. They also say that it is assumed that the headquarters function is assigned to the district offices. The majority also say that the Regional Office Board should reflect on the challenges facing business in the region. That is, the composition of the board will have to vary from region to region, depending on the type of business you have. It's reasonable and necessary for it to be done. Finally, the majority of the business committee says that primary industries must be represented in the board, both centrally and regionally. This is almost a matter of course, for both in terms of the fishing industry, the marine sector and agriculture, the new unit will be an important contributor to funding. However, unlike the government parties, the majority have stressed that both primary industries should be represented in the government, not just agriculture. Even with my very kind attitude towards Norwegian agriculture, I have not been able to agree in the committee setting that agriculture should benefit from governance over the fishing industry, as the minority advocates.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e584	I don't know if it's so late in the evening to say it's a happy day. I guess it's a happy night we're in. But at least there has been a long process related to what is going on bringing together the four units that are so important to Norwegian business. There was a job that was taken on quite quickly after the new government joined. St.meld. No 51 we had just before the holiday, and now we have Ot.prp. No 14, where we have laid the legal framework. There is no doubt that in setting up Innovation Norway, Norwegian businesses are now getting a new and powerful partner in their work to create a more innovative business. A profitable business is absolutely vital for us to have, as we have been talking about here, housing in District Norway. That's why I think it's very right to strengthen the whole tool by focusing even more and by pooling the resources that we're doing here. The fact that we are now actually having a presence in all the states, and that the same unit actually has a presence – I was saying – world wide, means that we now have an opportunity to give the good local ideas global opportunities. There is no doubt that Norwegian industry, Norwegian value creation, faces major challenges. We know that petroleum revenues will decrease and pension costs will increase. Without new businesses that can compete with the best, well-being will not evolve as we wish. Therefore, it is necessary to take this into account also by merging these units. This picture of the future is also the reason why the Government has promoted its own plan for a comprehensive innovation policy. This plan is certainly just a first step on the way to making Norway one of the most innovative countries in the world. We're not per. today. The first challenge is to motivate not only business but also the public sector and other parts of society to think about what has to do with innovation in everything we do. Over the year we're entering into, I'm going to promote many issues related to what goes on following the innovation plan. Through a variety of actions and initiatives, innovation will be put on the agenda on a broad front in the year we are about to enter into. It is important that we coordinate policy in many areas in this way. Innovation Norway has an important role to play in the follow-up to this Innovation Plan. The company should contribute to finding good ideas for its markets. There is no small challenge in a country where new products are better developed than commercialising them. Proactive efforts to assist entrepreneurs and small enterprises to reach new markets shall characterise Innovation Norway. It involves increased emphasis on internationalisation. Through close interaction with Ideas, R & D environments, investors, banks and advisors, Innovation Norway will contribute to the idea and technology development, empowerment, networking – as has been the case – patenting and funding. Innovation Norway will thus improve the ability of entrepreneurs and businesses to face competition. I would also like to take this opportunity to praise the Committee for having worked quickly and efficiently both on this matter and on the previous one. I think, however, that those who are going to have the main credit for having done this very well are the ones who are working in these units. They have had a big rush this autumn in order to manage this merger. There are four different companies with very different cultures, with different types of companies and very different sizes. It has been a significant challenge to do this. However, by the fact that Odelstinget today and hopefully Lagningen joins the Odelstinget decision, it will be possible to implement this whole idea plan as early as 1 January. Physically, you want to move together later in the spring. That's what you'll do in the building that belongs to the SND, where SND works today. We are now working intensively to enter into an agreement with the EEAS, so that the outsourced business, which was previously part of the Norwegian Export Council, will also be fully integrated into Innovation Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e608	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e611	I will also be allowed to give the Council of State commendation for quick work. I know that what has happened from June until today has been a very demanding process, so in this area I think we have reason to distribute flowers to the Council of State. But I want to ask the Council of State a question, and that is the one word that came into the purpose paragraph, the word 'districts', which was not included when the proposition came from the Government, and which the Storting has now asked to enter the purpose paragraph. Is it pleasing to the Council that that word came in? Or does it hurt the council?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e620	Now I'm excited.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e623	Nothing pleases me more than to trigger the president's excitement. But let me say it this way: it's with state councils like with big business representatives, you can express and acknowledge both sorrows and joys here in life. Let me say in connection with the not insignificant change that the case rapporteur may have experienced by extending what I had written in the purpose paragraph, that in ‘Innovation Norway aims to promote business and socio-economical economical economical development throughout the country’, each square metre of the Kingdom was included. And then, of course, you can keep going. There I had written, ‘Illustrating the economic potential of different regions’. And then you take in the word 'districts' so that it now becomes 'the economic opportunities of districts and regions'. Let me say: I had no personal resistance to doing it, rather the opposite, because it wasn't supposed to create an impression that this was a kind of a change of strategy overall. This is a unit that has a responsibility, not least, for development in Norwegian districts. At least there was no grief.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e636	That's good. The President cannot see that anyone else has asked for the floor, and the debate on case No. So 4 is over. [[Footing, see page 243]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e651	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e658	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Hedstrom, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Inge Ryan on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President takes first of all proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the costs of the new food inspection are not passed on to the industry more than a maximum of 70 pst. of the total costs.’» This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e1094	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I law on food production and food safety, etc. paragraph 31 is amended as follows.’ [[mat law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e1329	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e1339	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e1351	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee on B will be to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e1526	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party to the second and third paragraphs. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 30a of the Animal Protection Act shall be replaced by the following:The King may, on his behalf, require producers or importers of feed for animals to pay a levy on feed for animals. The fee shall cover costs of supervision and control under this Act with activities targeting animals, in so far as the costs are not covered by the fee, even the first paragraph.New § 30a, third paragraph, shall be deleted.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e1602	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No 15 June 2001 75 concerning veterinarians and other animal health professionals is amended as follows:The title of new Section 37(a) is replaced by:GebyrNew Section 37(a) first paragraph is replaced by the following:The King may, in regulations, impose on any subject of this Act and other actors referred to in Section 31 to pay a fee to cover the costs of supervision, control and specific benefits, such as the creation of certificates and approval, etc. in accordance with the law here.New § 37a second paragraph is deleted.New § 37a third paragraph is deleted.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e1668	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In Law No 4 December 1992 130 on animal husbandry is amended as follows:The title of new Section 6(a) is replaced by:GebyrNew Section 6(a) second paragraph is deleted.New Section 6(a) third paragraph is deleted.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e1711	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e1721	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e1940	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e1950	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e1957	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Inge Ryan, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Socialist Left Party, No. 2, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Storting with budgetary and administrative implications of providing the instrument with a four-year budgetary framework.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e1999	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 1 of the purpose paragraph shall be replaced by the following:Innovation Norway aims to promote enterprise and socio-economical economical economical development throughout the country, and triggers the business opportunities of different regions by contributing to innovation, internationalisation and profiling.The King may decide that the law shall apply in whole or in part to Svalbard.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e2465	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e2475	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e2487	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, capital B is to be sent to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-11-lower.ana.ud277e2498	There is no record.
