ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e30	The Progress Party wants to soften the Working Environment Act, and we therefore agree with the proposals to amend the provisions on overtime work, as promoted in this proposition. The Progress Party wants primarily to simplify the Labour Environment Act so that working time agreements are based as much as possible on voluntary negotiations between employers and employees of individual enterprises. Public provisions on overtime work should be removed and any overtime regulation should be based on agreements between the parties or with the individual employee. Employees who want to work overtime on a voluntary basis are more likely to decide for themselves how much or how little overtime they want to work, without being stopped by old-fashioned regulations, trade unions or bureaucracies in the Labour Inspectorate. In the Committee's work on this matter and in this debate earlier today, no new good arguments have been put forward to implement the proposed legislative changes on the embellishment of the provisions on overtime work. It is important to remember that the conditions for the use of overtime, which are regulated in Section 49 of the Working Environment Act, are not changed – I repeat: not being changed – by this amendment. This means that an employer’s obligations to exempt an employee from overtime work who requests it for health, social or other personal reasons. From the Labour Party, it was heard earlier today that we were about to introduce slave labour. The annual framework for overtime work will also not be extended, even if the Progress Party wants a certain extension, and overtime is also an expensive alternative for the farms. So what we're about to adopt now would hardly mean that the total use of overtime will disappear after these changes are introduced. Nevertheless, the proposals we are dealing with here represent an urgent increase in flexibility for both companies and employees, who have had some serious problems with today's overtime regulations. I know a lot of these businesses. The proposals are in favour of Norwegian business and Norwegian workplaces and provide firms with greater adaptability, to a more modern working life that is constantly changing. Several of the current rules on overtime work have expired and are not sufficiently adapted to the current working life, nor sufficiently adapted to the individual's interests and wishes. Therefore, these changes represent a small, but nevertheless important, efficiency and modernisation of a bureaucratic and outdated regulatory framework which has neither benefited employees nor adapted adequately to the needs of enterprises for flexibility. The Progress Party believes that the best and most effective solution available in the labour market is a system in which individual workers themselves gain greater influence over their own working hours. We are therefore pleased that we are now strengthening the influence of each employee on their own work situation and working hours. This is fully in line with the policies of the Progress Party, and we have no reservations about supporting the Government's view on this matter and thereby creating a majority for these proposals. Finally, I would like to address the proposals, which are included in the vote, which the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e49	The representative has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e54	It is no wonder that the Progress Party chooses not to receive advice from a group of trades. I'm used to it. However, it is worrying that the Progress Party smoothly overlooks advice from the leading tradesmanship on employment issues in this country. I am thinking here of the critical comments on the softening of overtime legislation that has come from the Labour Inspectorate, the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work and the Institute for Research at Work. They point to the danger to several health practitioners, that including working life may be at risk, that changes can lead to health damage, and that restrictions in the legislation are necessary so that workers do not suffer harm. It overlooks the Progress Party smoothly. My question to Andersen's representative will be: What kind of professional basis is there for the Progress Party to implement this change? Yes, they go even further; the Progress Party has put in a proposal to allow overtime of up to 600 hours. Does not the state's own professional competence advise on the assessments made by the Progress Party in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e61	Let me first say that I am getting a little tired of the working party's museum attitudes in this matter as well as their incredible ability to exaggerate, crisis maximize and present things completely erroneously in many contexts. So let me remind you that it's not slave work we're going to introduce in Norway. In fact, overtime is highly voluntary, and the Working Environment Act also regulates the right to refuse overtime. Paragraph 49 of the Act states that employers are required to exempt workers from overtime work when they ask for it, for health or social reasons, or to be exempted for personal reasons. So there is a legal protection against imposing undue overtime on employees in some cases. We're not taking this away! Let me also remind you of another thing that is important in this matter. Overtime, according to the law, can only be carried out in special cases, i.e.: in the case of unforeseen events, unexpected labour pressure, seasonal fluctuations or other unexpected events. In addition, if you are charged overtime, it is prescribed in the law at least 40 pst. additions to wages and salaries. Then it does not pay for the employer too much overtime, when the salary increases by 40 pst., 100 pst. or 200 pst. I must say that I do not understand the Workers' Party's downcast in this context anymore. I'm taking a distance, and I see there's a big difference between the Advancement Party and the Workers' Party in this case. But I believe that the position we stand for, for the future will prove to be the best for the Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e72	Torbjørn Andersen said that the Workers' Party did not have a single argument against these changes. But keep me safe – the representative Andersen did not at least have a single good argument for the change that is proposed and that lies here. I wish that this debate had been broadcast directly to the Norwegian people, so that people could see that instead of being the party that the Progress Party claims to be, the party for the most people, it is the party for the most workers. In the suspension, the Progress Party writes that they believe that it is the parties to the individual enterprise that are responsible for everything in the contract of employment – which regulates overtime, regulates wages, and regulates employment. It means, in other words, that Andersen’s representative believes, as the documents show, that everything that should be on the basis of knowledge-building and research on the labour market should not apply as a rule laid down in Norwegian law; it should be something for workers to agree with their employers in the individual enterprise. If you're talking about museum thinking, this is part of it. I would like to ask a simple question to Torbjørn Andersen: Does the representative of Andersen believe that these legislative proposals will lead to more use of overtime? And the second question: if the representative Andersen was to hire as a self-employed person either a 30-year-old person who was willing to take overtime, and to work a lot of overtime, or a 30-year-old person who was not willing to take a lot of overtime, because he was responsible, for example. for disabled children, what kind of person would hire Torbjørn Andersen in that case?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e79	It was not surprising with such an attack from SV's representative Holmås. But what this is all about is actually giving Norwegian companies good framework conditions. It is a very important and important moment. And the Progress Party would not agree to this if this was to the detriment of the workers. Some of the points are that flexibility will strengthen Norwegian working life, it will ensure Norwegian jobs, and it will ensure our competitiveness. We want a free working life with fewer public intervention. It is the policy of the Progress Party, and we believe that it is the policy of the future to regulate Norwegian employment. So it's this one with a simpler Norway. I think we're all served by simplifications in the law, and especially when it comes to work environment legislation, there is a need for simplification. Again I have to repeat that Section 49 of the Working Environment Act gives the right to be exempted from overtime work for health and social reasons. Whether there will be more use of overtime after this, I said something about it in my post. I do not think this will lead to an acceleration of overtime use in particular in Norway. We have to remember one more thing: we in Norway don't work very much from before. Recently we could see from a survey that Sweden actually works 150 hours more than what we average in Norway. It's a little amazing when the Workers' Party and SV, and the Center Party probably, beat some sort of salttomortal speech in pure ethnic – and see the man with the lie – over what's happening today. It's not the big changes that we're talking about. These are sensible regulations, which the Norwegian working life has long asked for, and which they need. We believe that this should strengthen – as I said instead – Norwegian working life and be in favour of the competitiveness of Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e90	When it comes to Torbjørn Andersen’s words – about salttomortals and great words – it is indeed he who creates difficult expectations for the change, with the background of what is proposed here. You're going to ask, what's the problem? Has Torbjørn Andersen met any companies that have not received a derogation when they have applied for it? The Labour Inspectorate told you that the exemptions were mainly granted. Nor does the Labour Inspectorate give any particular comfort to Torbjørn Andersen when it comes to simplification. They say that the legislation now seems – as suggested – to be more complicated and more inconspicuous, both for employees and for employers. If you want to get a more inclusive working life and one is busy, you should be able to wait for the selection that is looking at a new working life law. My questions will focus on Section 49 and on those who ask to be exempted from overtime. Does Torbjørn Andersen believe that they will be more popular or less popular at their workplace? And does he think that more or less of the 100,000 people who are now unemployed, and who might think of a job, will be able to do so, with the proposals that are here leading? The father is from a professional point of view said that we can get a more exclusive and more brutal working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e99	During this debate, many dramatic words have been used about how bad it would be if these changes to the Working Environment Act, which we are now debating, were adopted. The center party turns out to be among those who think this is going completely wrong. Here we have a deep disagreement with the Senter Party. In the case of §49, the employer therefore assumes obligations to exempt the employee from overtime work when it can refer to health or social reasons for not having overtime work. I believe that it is a good valve, which should help to ensure that there is no undue pressure on some workers who are asked to work overtime. I believe that the Working Environment Act, as it stands today, has a design that makes it quite a protection for Norwegian workers in overtime work. The law provides the protection – as far as I can assess it – that Norwegian workers need. But the changes we are now making are of such a nature that they will increase the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. We will have a better adaptation to a modern working life. And in terms of this with increased flexibility, there's no doubt that there's a positive element in this. That is exactly the point, that Norwegian working life must have the same competitive conditions as our neighbouring countries. We cannot create our own specific rules which mean that Norwegian companies are not competitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e108	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e111	Last fall, when it stormed as most around the expansion of the overtime, I participated in a debate on the radio with Peter Gitmark from the Right. He spoke nicely about the fact that the individual person himself had to be allowed to choose how much one would work – without having laws and trusts as limited – while I thought that the government's proposal would increase the use of overtime, higher sick leave and less opportunity to say no to work more than you want. On the way home, we sat in a taxi and asked the driver, who had heard the debate, about what he meant. He said, "Yes, that's the only way." Because of increased competition in the taxi industry, we have to drive two hours more on average to earn the same thing as just a few years ago. Two years ago, I went on a click – that was the heart – and had to drive to the medical officer himself. It went well, but after that I do not drive when I feel tired. There were no further arguments from Peter Gitmark. I have heard this from several taxi drivers. I have heard it from people who work at restaurants, who are called up and on short notice are asked to work outside the watch. I have several friends who have had stomach ulcers and who have had to get sick. And if you have your eyes open, you're going to check how many of the staging representatives who have gone on a click after working far beyond the normal working week only during this period. Research is not unique, says Kari Lise Holmberg. Is that wrong? Research shows that night work and shiftwork are harmful to health. Research shows that increased labour pressure and increased work levels lead to more people who are less well off at work and who are ill. We can only look at sick leave statistics, at the statistics on people with mental disorders, at the statistics on the number of people living here in the country, and listen to Professor Colbjørnsen of the School of Business, who says that increased competition in the labour market will lead to more people being pushed outside, and that is the price we have to pay for a more efficient labour market. There is nothing as provocative as right-wing people employed in the public sector, and who speak with pondus about how good it is with more competition in business, without talking about what it means for the people who work there. There's nothing more provocative than the Right People and the FrPs who say that it's only they themselves who take care of the overall vision. Those who put themselves at the height of NHO's slightest hint, and believe that thousands of employers think better than hundreds of thousands of workers — listen to the NHO, then! Of course, they were for the law changes because they shift negotiating power from the workers and trade unions to the employers, themselves. But what do they say to the municipal committee in their letter of consultation? They say that some workers are responsible for a large part of the overtime in enterprises, which increases the risk of wear and tear damage and long-term sick leave. That's what the NHO says. Is there any reason not to listen to them? Journalists refer to research into the honey trap, about people who work too much. These people go out later and have long-term absences. They're getting sick. They're burning out, which is the fashion word now. You ask people who work at the Institute of Labour Research, who want the State to sell, they also say that clearly. They're saying these things, and I'm supporting the things that both the Swedish People's Party, the Central Party and the Workers' Party are saying in the debate here. Norman put two things on the ground when he talked about modernising the public sector. He said that cooperation with employees is essential to achieve this, and that it makes sense to base total cost assessments. And there is no reason to believe that he would not believe the same thing in this case, and that the same principles should not apply even in private business. But he does not use the competence of the employees, he does not cooperate. He provides matters, such as this case, this amendment of the law. Instead of taking it where it belongs, i.e. in the Labour Law Committee, this is excluded. It is taken immediately, across the party – at least one party, the employee’s party – wants. So if you look at what has been said in relation to public sector conversion, you have a government council that is now overrun the teachers without even having been in good dialogue with them in advance. We have a government council that communicates the relocation of state supervision via the press release, without the state supervision itself being able to actively participate in the formulation of a policy that might have led to the same. We have exactly the same things here. We have a government council that has stood on this pulpit and said that it seems as if the employees, trade unions and the Aetat are more concerned with making political points than making sure to contribute to constructive solutions. The labour force is the most important resource in the enterprise, the words that are often spoken in a party context. Looking at the value of labour, the discounted value of labour, and the future work here in the country, it is the resource that far exceeds both petroleum wealth at the bottom of the sea and financial wealth abroad. Nevertheless, this wealth is not well managed. People aren't well-managed. They wear out. People get dissatisfied, more people are sick, more sick than before, and people become unemployed for too long because you want to spend money on making working life as competitive as possible and instead spend money on giving tax relief to those who absolutely don't need it. Total cost assessments were the second. The example of Victor Norman was at the time that it is possible that it pays off for the Post that everyone is going to go to Oslo to pick it up, but it would hardly be any right in a total cost context if you have to count on the time it takes for people to get to Oslo. But this is the same thing as it should be said in this case. The simple question for Victor Norman is: is there a total cost assessment of the impact of these changes on private business, and what effect will it have on public payments for sick leave, public payments for disability pensions? If you read the setting, it's just that you don't expect it to have a significant impact on public expenditure. It is therefore true that we have a government council that implements changes in the way they organise the world of work, without even making the total cost assessments – because there is no reference to any assessment of this – that it is absolutely necessary to make, and that is the basis for any other change, at least in the word. It tells us one thing: this is not a project carried out by the sober social economist Victor Norman, but a project to weaken the workforce, the trusted and the professional movement's position and conditions vis-à-vis the employer, carried out by the Right-Handman Norman. What was it he should have checked if he was busy with the employees' employment, if he was busy completing and achieving the goals of working for an inclusive working life? He would ask himself, what does increasing work mean for the well-being and health of employees? What does increased work mean for an inclusive working life? What does it mean for sick leave, and what does it mean as regards increased expenditure on disability benefits and other public expenditure related to people's risk of being pushed out, just as the NHO says? - I'll leave it. The second proposal that is up is what goes on management wages. SV agrees with the Labour Party and the Centre that this proposal must be rejected. We have previously made proposals for transparency relating to all kinds of pay agreements, which did not receive majority support, but only received support from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV last time. We believe that it should also be essential for this government to create transparency about pay agreements before choosing to implement such a change. In addition, the papers include: The evening post, pointing out that when the provisions of the Working Environment Act are to be based on them, there will be more professions where the demands of alert people when they are at work will be weakened. Therefore, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are promoting a proposal that relates specifically to air traffic controllers and others in such a situation. I am referring to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e135	Heikki Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e140	For one who has quite many years of experience from an active professional life, with a lot of tour, night work and overtime, as well as a quite extensive commitment as a leisure politician, this is a very interesting debate. Then it seems a little remote from reality to use the descriptions that we hear here from SV. I don't stop wondering about the urge anyone in this room has to detail almost absolutely everything they get their fingers in. In any case, it may not be necessary to pulverize any liability, both that of the employees themselves, and that of the employers. The problem of solving tasks that need to be solved arises seriously when the stoppages come — and it is not always planned — or in exceptional sick leave or other absences, for example. participation in political meetings. The option for most companies and businesses is not to hire more people. It's having enough flexibility in the organization to take it extra small. This is particularly true in small and medium-sized enterprises, often in a competitive environment. This usually involves securing jobs and creating a basis for profitability, so that new jobs can be created. My question to SV is simply: is it completely removed for SV that the simplifications we are doing here in this case, will actually be of great help to very many companies and employees, precisely because they secure exposed jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e151	I am tempted to answer yes and then go down again, because there is someone in this case who wants to regulate the working conditions and change the details of the organisation, it is just the Right. Here, a regime has been established that trustees should be a buffer for the individual employee, so that the individual employee does not face up to a fateful boss who wants the others to work more overtime, but instead can turn to trustees, so that one can distribute part of this overtime in a way that can just function fairly. Then I ask the question: why in the world is it so important for Hans Kristian Hogsnes to change just this detail? The only good reason for this is to want to weaken the position of employees and to want to transfer more power to employers, to make it more difficult for individual workers to stand in a position where they can say no. I know very well about the working life where you're just using overtime, call mechanisms. It's about public hospitals that have people employed at 30 p.m. and who call people to get them to work extra. And it's about getting people working in the hotel and restaurant industries to work extra. I sat on the plane a month ago with a guy who worked in the construction industry, who was desperate because he had to work so crazy a lot, because he wouldn't be the one who went to the employer and said he couldn't stand up for the weekend, even though he had set up the previous four weekends. He's going to be out of work before he becomes 30. He was already partially damaged in his back. Then my question is, is it that Hans Kristian Hogsnes thinks it is so important to remove this buffer that exists, and as the employee organisations think it is very important that you have? So it's Hans Kristian Hogsnes who's concerned about detailing this, not me.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e162	Initially, I would like to say that the representative Holmås must be careful so that he does not meet the wall. I don't know how many hours he spends working at Stortinget, but we know he has an additional job as a bartender. There, of course, he has to limit his efforts, so that he does not overwork and get worn out. It was in a sense a bit humorous, but I record that the representative Holmås and also representatives from the Workers' Party are very concerned with health. Then it's a little strange that not Norwegian workers are the world's freshest, assuming we're working 20 pst. less than the rest of the world. Then we should be freshest. But then it actually turns out that we're perhaps the world's sickest in terms of cardiovascular disease. Maybe it's because we're working a little bit too little, that we're sitting a little bit too calm. It's just something I'm sneaking out. I respect the points of view SV has, but I have a challenge for SV, since they show such great concern for Norwegian workers. We know that Norwegian businesses include very many small and medium-sized enterprises. In particular, there are many one-man businesses and two-man businesses, where you work your life off to pay taxes and taxes to get things going together, and where you have to hire people or have workers who are willing to be loyal and take a roof where you need it. Does SV have the same concern for the hundreds of thousands of employers or self-employed workers who work for themselves? At least there is no indication in the policy that SV has in general when laying the framework conditions for small enterprises, framework conditions that require them to work both day and night, on weekends and on holidays.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e171	It's possible it was humorous thought from Per Sandberg's side. I have actually given up working at that restaurant in September, because I believe that the pressure here has been so high. I'll answer the challenge. We have a great deal of concern for all the people who are employers in small and medium-sized enterprises. I believe that we have much greater concern for them than the Progress Party has, and we can, for example. Take the example I mentioned here with regard to taxi drivers. The Progress Party thinks it is very nice to introduce free competition for taxi services, although this means that people have to work more to earn the same because the margins are getting smaller. This leads to a more inefficient use of resources, because taxis remain calm, they are not less at rest, and they are working more, because the jobs are no longer going to happen. There is no doubt that the framework conditions under which we go in order to ensure that people can have a working environment with which they can live and a payroll are a policy which, both in terms of taxation and in terms of welfare services being cheap and good, is a completely different and much better policy than that of the Progress Party. Finally, I would like to say one thing to the Advancement Party. I noticed that Torbjørn Andersen in his reply to me never answered the question whether he would hire a person who is willing to take the most overtime, or hire one who has no opportunity for it for personal reasons. That's exactly the reality we're facing in a situation where you have high unemployment, where you have increasing unemployment. It is clear that any company owner will choose to hire those who are as flexible as possible, if they have the choice. That's when I think it's important to say that certain things have to be at the bottom of the working environment of individual employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e180	I am not so optimistic that I believe I can overinterpret neither SV nor the representative Holmås with regard to the Government's excellent proposal at the first point in this case. But then there's a point number. two at a time. The case also contains a proposal to cancel the cancellation protection for senior managers with pre-agreed successor contracts. What the Government – the Christian People’s Party, the Right and the Left – and also the Progress Party say is that one should not have in both bag and bag. One shall not have both milk and honey. One can choose. Why in all the world won't SV once make the necessary adjustments for top leaders?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e189	I can give a general answer to that. We believe, as we also say in the setting, that this case is not well lit – simply! You can't just suggest making such a change without saying something about the extent of this today, and what problem this poses, and then just do it through like this. We believe that the matter should be dealt with by the Labour Law Committee. We see no reason why this should be so urgent, nor that the matter is of such importance that it is necessary to get it through now. We're just saying that! It's not 100 percent sure. This can be seen as a breach of the legislation in relation to the protection of workers' employment. At least we think it is important to find out all the facts in the matter before we decide on it. I guess that's as good as that!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e196	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e199	This is not a big deal. She is absolutely limited in scope, and therefore the Government is making the case without going the way of the Labour Law Selection. That's why I'm wondering about the big headlines and the unlikely claims that this rule change would lead to a more dangerous working life, debauchery and disability, which would lead to us working in full, a horrific pressure on the workforce and an undermining of an inclusive working life. This is, with respect to report, a storm in a glass of water. Let's be clear: we're not changing the maximum frame overtime. She is and has been 400 hours a year – always calculated from 40 hours of work before overtime is calculated. That's the way it's going to be, and that's how it's still going to be. So we're not going to change that. What we're doing is changing the application procedure to allow us to work up to 400 hours overtime, and that's a simplification. No matter what you mean, it has to be a simplification. Instead of one via the club, the Labour Inspectorate is looking for a derogation and receiving the requested derogation – and it has many confirmed that a sheep in the nearest 100 pst. of the cases - the overtime is now agreed directly with the employees. But still the maximum overtime is 400 hours. Workers' rights are not affected. They are protected by the same law as before. And then it's not like we Norwegians work a lot. According to the OECD figures for 2001, we work less than all our Scandinavian neighbours, and much less than both Japanese, American and English. But we're a lot of people working in this country. It's also important. 70 pst. by women working outside the home, quite often part-time. Even if many people want more work, part-time is also a way to reduce time clipping. So it's taking one to varying degrees. But the only explanation for what the OECD told us is that we have shorter working hours, we have more vacations, and we have less overtime than our neighbors. The Christian People's Party is overconfident that there is flexibility within the individual workplace and freer rules about when and how one might work the 400 extra hours, by making this a matter between employers and employees. For the first thing, 80 pst. by employees, they like to work more overtime. They don't. We didn't accept that. But both employers and employers can choose more freely for when and how to use up to 400 hours. This may also mean that fewer people take on another job and work twice as much. I'm referring here to the last line round. It's never been forbidden. Many in our society work both double and triple. I think that many people see that the need for work can vary greatly, and most people are interested in securing their jobs by taking a roof when most is needed. I have grown up in such a workplace myself, and I know the problem very well. And so it is that working hours cannot be taken out without sleep. It's important. The rules on sleep time are the same as before, § 51 of the Working Environment Act – no change. Unfair pressure over a long time, more than four months, is also not possible. One cannot work on average more than 48 hours per week during four months. That means that a real job should be done 400 hours overtime, then it will be distributed throughout the year – as before. That's pretty straightforward. I hardly think that it can be either normal or widespread anyway. So why do people become dissatisfaction, burnout and infirm? Yes, there may be more questions than answers. But at least the answer is not just to find at the workplace. We've worked as a single person for longer days before in Norway without the same sick report picture. Other nations also work more than us, but are less ill, at least less sick. The pressure and speed of the job are hardly less in the United States and the United Kingdom than with us. I think the answer is to find in the stress and time clamp too many people have today, in the home and in their relationships, as well as at work. We can mention a lot: bullying at work and bullying in other contexts. But depressed and debilitated is a much easier way of being unemployed than in a stressful job. It must also be included. Extra overtime is something you take on voluntarily to get the job done at work stops or delivery deadlines. I've been on it myself. Then flexibility is important. Then take a break afterwards, but the workplace is secure. Flexibility, of course combined with the rights of the employee, believes the Christian People's Party is involved in creating more jobs, and that's what we need now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e218	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e221	This is no big deal, said the representative. Well, it's so big that the LO has been on demonstration trains, the YS has been strongly opposed, and the Education Teams' main organisation has been strongly opposed. Yes, representatives of employers think this is a big deal. It's an important matter for the NHO. The professional bodies consider this to be a major and important matter: the Labour Inspectorate, the Institute for Safety and Health at Work and the Institute for Research at Work. If this is not a big thing, why does the Christian People's Party expose itself for once again to massive criticism from large groups in Norwegian society, in a matter that should be so totally immaterial, and have as little significance as the representative tries to give the impression of? The Christian People's Party says they're a family party. Is it good family policy when a mother or father, who would like to be at home with his children, fears of becoming unpopular with the employer and fears of not getting into the competition for career advancement, chooses to say yes when the employer asks if you can work up to 84 hours per day. week? Is it good family policy to remove the buffer that could help the employee to say no, by means of the trustee, and rather to expose the individual employee directly to say no, with the danger of becoming unpopular, and by extending the will to work overtime beyond the will to have a good family life strictly to be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e229	Should People Choose a Good Family Life? Yes, the Christian People's Party thinks so, even at the expense of overtime at work if necessary. But it's not that employers have unlimited power, so they can terrorize their employees. It hasn't been like this, and it's not like this in Norway. It's not like this now, and so it's not with the changes that are proposed here. Legal protection exists and is not proposed. There is legal protection in Section 12 and there is legal protection in Section 49, and employers also have obligations to exempt workers from overtime work when they ask for it for health reasons or for important social or personal reasons. This still exists. Is that a big deal? No, we don't mean that. The changes are relatively limited, so they are not presented in the Labour Law Selection. I don't know if the listeners can listen to it – there's a lot of storm, but I think there's a storm in a glass of water. This is only about the proposed removal of the overtime frame for one week and four consecutive weeks. Instead, a general rule is proposed that working hours, including overtime, should not exceed 48 hours on average per year. the week measured over four months, and this shall be done in direct cooperation with the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e236	I just want to recapture the thread from the representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen. If this question is not a big one, it is clear that someone is acting disrespectfully. So humble I would encourage Anita Apelthun Seal to be, that when someone, that is, those affected by the changes in the law, thinks that this is a big thing, you accept it. You kind of say OK, I didn't see this as a big deal, but if you say that's the way it is, okay, then I'm going to bend for it. There's something about taking people seriously, which I think this government should be careful to be too bad to do. You have to be careful not to take people seriously when they ask to be taken seriously. This also applies in this case. So to the questions I think there's reason for Anita Apelthun's seal to be worried about. One thing is: Think Anita Apelthun Seele – I'm going to kind of ask silly questions, because if there's no more overtime, what's the point of this amendment – that there's going to be more overtime with this amendment? Isn't Anita Apelthun's seal concerned at all that more overtime use can lead to more sick leave, and can lead to a stronger wear and tear on individuals in the company, such as NHO alerts in its letter to the committee? I have these two questions. In addition, I'd like to say one thing at a time. It is that it is actually that quite a lot of people feel that flexibility in the work situation is a good thing. At the same time, quite a number feel that it is not. If you break down the statistics that include: The Labour Research Institute sits on, you can see that the people who feel that they have responsibility and influence along with flexibility are very satisfied, while those who feel little responsibility are not satisfied. And it's the people who are going out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e245	I sincerely hope not that we are disrespectful, but we mean anything. We've actually meant quite a long time that our working life, our business life and our businesses need more flexibility. They have wanted it in many contexts over many years. Would you like to apply these changes to work longer? I'm not sure, but I think maybe one will work overtime in another way. We may not feel the same way about meeting employees – who at least I have met – who say that they are disappointed that they are not being able to do the work right now, because the work is now there. But then we have to think about not increasing the number in hours overtime. Still is the maximum frame she has, and that's the point here. In one year, at least one cannot work more overtime than before, and I don't think more work automatically means more absenteeism. In general, much more work will mean more absenteeism. And double job and triple job and other job I think I have a lot to do, as well as stress that comes from quite different places. In any case, these frames hardly go beyond the limits that most of us tolerate if we have to. So there's one more thing that I have to clarify. We're not increasing the frame for overtime. One can say no to this overtime with the law at hand. It may be easier even to say no to his boss when one is alone with him and he can go to another, than if that union belongs to one, has the promise and the agreement that one should work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e254	I have three recommendations for Anita Apelthun Seele. First, read the proposition on page 2 about what is currently correct. If so, it will find out that when it compares the present proposal to the previous one, there can be no doubt that there are more people who can be pressed for more overtime. Secondly, I would recommend that she read her comments from the Labour Inspectorate. Then she might operate with a little less faith and take on board the fact that there are, in fact, professional recommendations towards a more thorough distribution both in terms of the complexity of the legislation proposed and also of the concern of the individual concerned. Third, if the Christian People's Party is still going to talk about freedom of choice for small children's families, they have to assume that when it comes to freedom of choice, there are several people who experience that the Christian People's Party speaks with two tongues. They facilitate a law that pushes more parents into increased work over time with their children, and they play on what they call ‘freedom’. Yes, I now registered that Anita Apelthun Seele took the last one in. She now said that they could refuse with the laws in their hands. My question will then be: When young children’s parents are promised to do so, does she believe that the climate is getting better or worse at the workplace?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e263	I always listen to Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa when she gives advice, and here it was even three advices. First, I'm going to read page 2 of the proposition once again, but I actually mean that I've read that page! Secondly, the Labour Inspectorate's hearing has been well documented here today, and I know her well. It seems to me, however, that the Labour Inspectorate focuses on bias and has forgotten that the Working Environment Act is intact, intact in Section 49, which limits the use of overtime to unexpected events, to how much work is needed, and to unexpected work pressure. They have forgotten Section 12 of the Working Environment Act, which states that workers should not be subjected to unfortunate physical or mental stress, and that there should also be emphasis on social conditions – the home conditions simply, the home life that one has and that others should take into account. That's the way it is, and that's how it should be. It's not changed. In addition, a certain number of people have forgotten – and it amazes me – Section 51 of the Working Environment Act, which says that one should actually have 11 hours of sleep time and 36 hours of leisure time on weekends. It doesn't matter when you're making any fictional operations that don't hang on to anything. In case it should be switched on – it cannot go on altogether, but if it had to go on partially – it had to be because the Labour Inspectorate had still allowed it himself upon application. And I don't think they'll do it when they say it's so bad for the employees. So these assessments actually don't stick together, and I'm wondering why. But I won't say anything about it. I believe that the freedom of choice is maintained, and I believe that the employers who take care of their workers also have the best results in their companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e272	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e275	Named after Ot. pp. No 101 for 2001-2002 the Government has proposed changes to the overtime rules to increase flexibility, thus making it easier for businesses to compete for jobs that lead to job stops. Who is making up these companies? They're people. It is young people who elevate for long days with life and lust, and who increasingly end up under the stamp of ‘burned’ when they are 30 years old, and it is women and men who get the impression of ‘older’ when they are 50 years old — individuals who are increasingly lacking in skills and experience, who experience being sick, long-term ill and incapacitated. Enterprises consist of ordinary workers, many of whom are under pressure and stressed and become a number in the statistics showing an increase in sick leave. Enterprises also consist of leaders who struggle and struggle between efficiency and return requirements, agreements for a more inclusive working life and the lack of opportunity to take the necessary care of the individual. The government had the ability to wait and make changes to the rules of overtime. An independent public selection assesses a comprehensive social law. During the hearings in the committee, it was also found that although the NHO agrees with these changes, these proposals came as a surprise to them right now, precisely because there is a selection reviewing the law. The agreement on an inclusive working life should also take some time before a proposed change in this field. The centre party will listen to their employees' organisations, and the important counter-representations they present, as well as to the professional advisers to counter the changes. We believe today's limits to overtime seem preventative. Many leaders need to find alternative solutions. We also focus on supervision of work and confidence in the work they do to participate in exemptions when there are no alternatives. Through the changes, the responsibility is shifted from work supervision to trusted to individual agreements between the individual employee and the enterprise. The pressure on individuals is increasing. Trustees' responsibilities will be reduced. The labour inspectorate's access to dialogue, guidance, counselling and training will be removed. I'm most surprised at the Christian People's Party, which on one side now focuses on giving parents more time with their kids, as they did just before the weekend again, while this case is being treated in the Storting, and then on the other hand, a proposal that, for some, implies a worsening family policy. There can be no doubt that there are more parents who are pushed into longer working days, not getting greater, but less freedom of choice, less time with their kids. There is also another suggestion in Ot. pp. No 101 for 2001-2002, i.e. the suspension of senior managers’ employment protection. There I refer you to the representative, Opbebøen Hansen, who has briefed on the issue of the majority in the Committee proposes that this proposal be sent back to the Government, and that is also indicated by the vote. Then there is an important proposal on the table, proposal No. 4, which the Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party are behind. It confers an authority on the Government to draw up regulations for individual groups, groups that experience having a responsibility in relation to the security of society. They request to be excluded from the changes currently proposed. It would be a compromise that everyone could gather on. I strongly recommend that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e299	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e302	There was not much to hear about the business and business conditions in the post from the Center Party! The changes to the overtime rules are one of several instruments to improve the environment for businesses. The most important thing in today’s Norway is to secure jobs, and to maintain and strengthen the competitive economy. In particular, small businesses need more flexibility and more space for action. Small businesses are often located in the districts. The proposal for changes to the overtime arrangements therefore provides local enterprises with better opportunities to save jobs and create new ones. The centre party is also close to the Labour Party in this case, which may be said to have a binding mandate from the LO. On this issue, there is no doubt that trade unions see the changes in overtime regulations as an intervention in pay and working conditions. The level of noise in the case shows that. I want to ask the Center Party whether it really is such that the party has gone so far to the left that the Center Party now takes more account of the trade union interests than of the needs of the districts and small businesses for a stronger business life? Does the Central Party think that there are enough jobs in the districts, since this topic is not given any attention at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e313	I share with the Central Party's business policy with the representative Holmberg, but the matter actually concerns changes when it concerns the law on the working environment and worker protection. Let me underline: we are for a simplification of the form field for both the smaller and the larger companies. We have long called for exemptions from the tax on working capital. We're going to go away from the principle of business neutrality, just to take care of the businesses where we're especially good in Norway. I would believe that the representative Holmberg could not have avoided registering our commitment to a strengthened trade and for a government involvement in expanding broadband even beyond there as the market reaches. So, as you can see, there's a huge difference in the one-sided focus of the Right to have the market settled mostly, and the Central Party's commitment to a varied business life also in District Norway. Then, in fact, in many of these individual companies and in many small businesses located around the district, a still registered employer who takes social responsibility, not least because one of them still finds local ownership. There is a lot of what we are discussing in this matter irrelevant because they deal with each other in respect of each other. But what this case concerns is a more brutal working life. I record that Right uses its line to speak it completely away!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e323	The centre party has always been a party to care for small businesses in the districts. In particular, the primary activity, agriculture, self-employed in the agricultural sector. Then it is interesting to ask the representative Meltveit Kleppa about something in relation to it. Does the Centre Party also wish to regulate working time, possibly overtime, for these groups? This means that once you have worked the hours you can work, in the middle of the spring or autumn, a stop the tractor or the harvester and wait for it to be done in relation to the time before you can start throbbing again. That's what it's all about, flexibility to take the job when it's in front of you. Compared to the rest of small and medium-sized enterprises in the districts, it is not true that Meltveit Kleppa here claims that they take more social considerations than other employers. I lack the signals from the representatives in the hall, and I suspect many that I have not at all registered what is reality in the workplace and in the business world. Then the representative Meltveit Kleppa is also concerned that we should wait for a Commission job. There has also been an SV in there, and the Workers' Party also wants to wait for it. What's changing the situation of the three parties if we get a commission on the track? Will the three parties change their conclusion in relation to today? Will they then allow the changes in the current case? We know the constellations, so why can't we change the rules today instead of waiting for a Commission job? Finally, I would like to ask the representative Meltveit Kleppa in relation to professional organisations: has she asked, for example. The peasantry about what they might have said if she had entered and regulated their working time and working environment in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e337	Unlike the Progress Party, which did not respond to me whether those who often ask for overtime exemptions become more or less popular in the companies, or whether the Progress Party believes that more or less unemployed people will be able to work after these changes, I will try to answer what the Sandberg representative here asks for. Firstly, with regard to labour and agriculture, there is today a certain set of legislation in relation to the environment and health. In this case, I agree with the proposals put forward by the Department, where there is clear advice from many authorities to make an overall assessment when it comes to the law of the labour market. Per Sandberg thinks we're missing a signal. Is it really the case that Per Sandberg has not met business leaders who are strained by the demand for efficiency and return from a long-distance business owner, and by taking good care of their workers by regulating both what to do before normal working hours and beyond normal working hours, and being conscious of their social responsibility, in line with the agreements on an inclusive working life that we are now receiving?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e346	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e349	Softening the rules of the Working Environment Act on voluntary overtime is a very important issue for many small and medium-sized enterprises that have called for overtime flexibility for many years. The Labour Environment Act shall provide workers with good protection against occupational injury and exploitation in the labour market. At the same time, promises must be made to adapt the needs of the new working life for flexibility and individual solutions, and one must transform the working life of a society where the competences and resources of the individual are at the centre of attention. If you want the innovation needed to create new jobs, you need a flexible working time system. This was one of the choices left gave business, and we are pleased that this is now being implemented. These changes will give you more flexibility. We see the individual in the centre, and this proposal allowed the individual employee to decide more about his or her working hours and perhaps feel that he or she is involved in further developing his or her own work, is part of and takes responsibility for the company’s further development – perhaps in a crisis situation where one sees that one’s own work is at risk of being lost. I thought there was a lot of exaggeration and black paint about the consequences of the opposition and the trade unions. This case also shows an ideological distinction between the parties here on Stortinget. After what Left sees, it's about the power of the trade unions versus the power of the individual. It's also about the threat that the individual human being has the will to speak from it. We believe that the individual employee will be stronger and not weaker. We mean that employers view employees as one of their most important resources, as one needs, as one will keep, and as one will treat well. If a company leader does not show the respect it should show for each employee, it will be possible to seek help. The law also regulates. It's not about people wanting to work all the time, because there's no general extension of overtime. There are still sleeping and working time rules for special occupations. The innovation may as well intensify as increased overtime use. It is about taking decisions based on the situation and the need for individual enterprises and employees. It is gross inadmissibility and underestimation of people not to have confidence that they themselves can take this assessment – that they themselves can say so. Maybe you can come up with an agreement to work more for some periods, so you can take longer holidays in other periods. Flexibility is also best for the individual worker and for the family situation of the individual worker. So it's said that increasing the use of overtime in special situations results in fewer additions, a pointer to the situation in Norway today with a lot of unemployed people. This is, in the view of the Left, a statement that does not quite contain a measure. On the contrary, it will strengthen businesses if they can be flexible, and there may be more jobs than if one had to resign and thus restrict the growth due to rigid rules. So we know that today there are many leaders and owners of small businesses around Norway who work around the clock for periods of time to secure the jobs that they themselves have been creating. They cannot use their employees because of rigid rules and a bureaucratic system to apply for overtime. This is a strain on the employers, the strain on their families, on the family situation, and it may cause them to shut down the company. They don't have the power anymore, so companies can be laid down. This can also stop with this flexibility option. Disgusting from businesses happens when things go bad – not when things go well. I guess no one wants to pay large sums overtime rather than add more to the usual salary. In the view of the Left, a flexible labour market is a prerequisite for the emergence of new businesses. In a situation where many ask questions about the competitive situation in our business, where many companies are at risk of moving out, it is also important to focus on the need for new jobs. We need that to secure income that allows us to further develop our welfare society. The left has believed that employees and employers themselves will take responsibility and will secure the jobs themselves, and that employees dare to say no to more overtime when they see the need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e379	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e382	I am a little surprised by the almost naive belief that if only all individuals do not comply with the laws and regulations that protect their health and protect the workers' own situation, everything would have become much better. I'm also a little surprised by the way May Britt Vihovde puts it. She sees the trade movement as a threat to the individual, and not as what it is just: an opportunity for people to organise themselves in a trade union to have greater impact on the employer. If it was such a serious threat that a local trade union had influence, the people there wouldn't organize. On the contrary, the problem is very often that in those places you don't get organized, where there are few organised, you have the most health problems. For example, the hotel and restaurant industry is an industry where people have the lowest life expectancy. Of course, the Health Minister would have arrested me and said that it was solely because we have not yet had a change in the smoking law. But it's like in places where people work for a long time, and where there's a lot of night work, you have the shortest life expectancy. On a general basis, I would say that if companies drop because they don't have flexible overtime regulations, I actually think that those companies are basically not life-creating. But my question to May Britt Vihovde will be: Is May Britt We were afraid of the expenses that may result from the increased costs of sick leave, which are just coming as a result of the labour competition we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e393	Left will not remove all laws and rules and will not give complete freedom to the individual human being. We have laws and rules. Even if we now relax on the overtime rules, there are a lot of good rules in the work environment law that the left will not change either. But having flexibility is important in the different industries. Then the representative Holmås talks about trade unions and organisation. The left has no objections to the trade unions. The left sees that trade unions do a great job, and that it is important that they are there. But they don't have to be in detail to regulate everything in a relationship between a worker and an employer. In fact, the left has faith that employers view employees as a resource. We are actually in a situation today where there are many places where there is a shortage of labour. It will also be the situation for a long time to come, even if we have a situation of unemployment. The Socialist Left Party itself has been opening up labour immigration, the possibility of getting more people into Norway, because we need labour. When we need labour, the Left also believes that individual managers will actually treat their employees as best they can, because he sees them as a necessary resource. I would like to say that a company in the start-up phase where a company owner, a founder, enters and works around the clock can actually give up if the owner does not have the flexibility to use his workforce. In fact, a large number of employees working in these companies want to stay for a little while to secure their own jobs, to further develop their jobs and create new jobs. The flexibility of my left is important to secure the businesses. I am deeply disagreed when the representative Holmås says that then these companies are not life-creating. They're really life-created. This is the future business in Norway. Therefore, it is important to take care of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e402	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e405	The representative Vihovde is right in saying that this case marks an ideological distinction, an ideological distinction between the parties that want workers to be guaranteed the protection they have today and those who do not want it. Up to 16 working hours six days a week for six weeks, up to 84 hours for longer periods, up to 520 hours for overtime per year, no maximum limit per week. Week, no maximum limit per week. month, not requiring approval from the Labour Inspectorate is the response of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party in a situation where more and more people are being sickened because of increased stress and increased pressure on the labour market! The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are overstepping the warnings from an overall trade movement – from LO, YS, the Education Group's main organisation. They're overstepping the warnings from all the leading trade unions. The Labour Inspectorate is opposed. The National Institute for Safety and Health at Work is opposed. The Labour Research Institute is opposed. Senior occupational medicine supervisor, Håkon Lasse Lasse Leira, says: ‘These rules provide for an increase in the brutalisation of working life and the spread of the vessel with burnt-out people that we already see.’ Many people will work overtime, both to make a little extra money and to take an extra roof if there is a need to do the necessary work. That's good. That's why we also have a law that gives a lot of room to work overtime. However, overtime may also be a burden if you are already tired or for other reasons want free time when the normal working day is over. It is difficult to say no to increased overtime when the employer asks – of loyalty to the employer or of fear of becoming unpopular with the employer. You may have less opportunity to advance in the company, for example: The new rules therefore mean that the pressure to work more overtime will increase, even for those who really do not want to work anymore. The result will be more pressure, more stress and more sick. Those who know the most about employment issues in this country – Labour Inspectorate – have said about the changes that if companies make maximum use of the new provisions, working time schemes will be harmful to health. In other words, the Labour Inspectorate believes that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are now changing the law so that workers can be effectively pushed into harmful overtime work. That's the opposite of what we need. We need a policy that reduces unemployment, not a policy that pushes those who have work, to work so much that it is harmful to health. We need a policy that prevents health problems and reduces sick leave, not a policy that leads to increased stress, increased burnout and increased sick leave. We need policies for an inclusive working life, where there is room for all who can contribute, and where it is facilitated to prevent exclusion, not a policy that makes it more difficult for those with reduced working capacity. The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party add to a tougher working life. That's what the Workers' Party is against. That's why, together with the employees, the trade union movement and the trade unions, we strongly disagree when the Advancement Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party are now proposing to open up up to 84 hours of working week.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e435	It has been an interesting, colorful and partly temperature-filled debate. One of the most interesting issues that has been raised is whether this is a big or a small matter, whether it is an important or not matter. I first of all want to say that this is no big deal. At least there is no major issue in the sense that it means much to the extent of overtime work in Norway. There are no changes in the overall framework proposed. There is no reason to believe that there will be major changes in the amount of overtime carried out. There is no reason for the strong words that have been used about increased exclusion and so on. In these areas, there is no big deal. I still think it’s an important matter – and it can be important even if it’s not big. It's important for two reasons. Firstly, it is important for many individual enterprises and for many individual individuals. And even though these in sum might not mean that much when we're calculating, it means a lot to each of them individually. Secondly, it is important because it concerns key principles on who to decide, whether it is country and organisations or whether it is individual enterprises and individuals. At that point, there are important differences in principle between the parties in this hall, and there are differences that might probably help explain some of the strong commitment and the high temperature of the debate. I am very pleased that I represent parties that believe that individual businesses and individuals are more important than governments and organisations at the general level – to have said that. But let me also clarify, as many speakers have done, what the matter really applies. In concrete terms, the proposal is to repeal the overtime framework of the Working Environment Act for one and four consecutive weeks, which means that it is possible to work on average 48 hours per week. and that it can be averaged over a period of four – and in some cases six – months. I would say that there are unusually few people who are going to be burned out or expelled because of such an average calculation. Furthermore, it is proposed that the employer should be able to enter into an overtime agreement with the individual employee up to 400 hours a year, which can be done today, but this must be done by agreement with the trade union or by application to the Labour Inspectorate. So much is what the proposal contains, neither more nor less. At the same time, proposals have been made to exempt senior executives from the employment protection rules of the Labour Environment Act if they have agreed to pay back. In concrete terms, I believe that the proposals for embellishment in the overtime rules that have been put forward are an important step in the right direction in order to obtain some more flexibility for each company. This flexibility will lead to companies not at least becoming less profitable than they are today. And for those of us who believe that the profitability of businesses is the biggest scarcity factor in the development of business and thereby creating more jobs, that means that this flexibility, if anything, is going to create more jobs in Norwegian society, not fewer. Mr. Hansen said earlier that this is a policy that will increase unemployment. In that case, it must be based on a different perception of what creates jobs than what we think is right. At the same time, the authority of the trade unions and the Labour Inspectorate today to grant overtime on behalf of the individual employee will now be added to the employees themselves. It will give each employee greater influence over and control over their own work situation. It will strengthen the individual's position, not only towards the enterprise, but also towards the social pressure exerted in very many contexts by the local club or trade union. Individuals are strengthened at the expense of the local organisations that are important in other contexts, but in practice very often cause people to feel pressured to work overtime, even if they do not want to. In this context, the pressure exerted by the organisations and associations locally is stronger than the pressure a modern employee is willing to accept from his employer. On the part of some organisations and partly in the media, there has been a debate in which some of the outraged consequences of the legislative amendments have been drawn up. I think you should be extraordinarily careful to dramatize this. At the latest in the speeches by Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen, there were repeated allegations that the proposal opened up opportunities for 14 hours of daily work for eight weeks. This is beyond. Such an outraged example is only possible if the Labour Inspectorate dispenses with other provisions. If the Labour Inspectorate were to do so, it would be the state, through its ongoing enforcement of the Work Environment Act, that creates health-threatening situations. It is not the freedom granted to each enterprise or individual worker under this proposal. I would like to stress that the Government is concerned with ensuring that the working life does not outbursts with conditions of employment that increase exclusion due to wear and tear and burnout. But if we're going to do that, we need to be clear about what creates such situations. The strongest results in this direction are seen today at workplaces where the 400-hour overtime framework is exceeded, or in jobs exempted from working time regulations because the work is self-employed or of a leading nature. I also want to remind you that there are no legal barriers to taking more jobs today. It is fully permissible for Norway to work fully, as long as it is not in the ordinary employment of its regular employer. I have the confidence in employers that they will actually take better care of their own employees than they will take care of people who have an additional job with them. By opening up that people, if they want to work more in short periods than they would otherwise do, can do it more in their regular job, it will be more secure for them than if they are referred to driving a taxi in their spare time. I think, in fact, the contrary is that we may have too strict a framework for overtime use in our own work, and that it has seemed like a sleeping cushion in relation to the work of focusing on the core problem for a lot of workers. So the proposition, as I said, contains a proposal to abolish the protection against dismissal for senior executives with a pre-agreed payroll agreement. I'm not going to go into this very much of the proposal. But I noticed with great interest that the representative Holmås said that we had to monitor the extent of this problem before taking a position on it, that it was not certain that this was an urgent problem, etc. I hope the same attitude will be shown by the representative Holmås next time a matter of a large parachute comes up in the press. It seems to me that otherwise, including Holmås' own party, this is a fairly visible problem in many cases, and there have always been clear demands in individual matters from parties that are now opposed to our proposal, that something has to be done. The short proposal is that top managers who negotiate to a parachute when entering a position must be willing to realise that such a parachute has consequences for the job protection they have. I don't think this solves all the problems related to lucrative after-sales agreements for top managers in business, but it solves at least one of the problems: it is not possible both to get a solid parachute and to be able to rely on the employment protection provisions of the Employment Protection Act. I am very surprised that parties that have otherwise expressed very great concern about pay back agreements and other parachute-like schemes, now believe that we need to monitor the scale of the problem and look at the time, and perhaps do something about it in the fullness of time after a longer investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e467	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e471	The Labour Party and I believe that it would be right to await this matter until a new labour law was on the table. Only then could we get a complete review. Today there will be overtime equivalent to about 65,000 annual works, according to the Statistical Central Bureau. At the same time, there are about 100,000 unemployed, and unemployment will only increase further, according to the forecasts available. This proposal will facilitate increased use of overtime, is my claim. It means that fewer hands will have more work to do. I would still argue that much indicates that the change in the law will lead to more people becoming unemployed. I'm not going to repeat the argument I had in my main post. My question to the Council of State is then: Has the Ministry assessed what the new overtime law will have to say for unemployment in Norway? And won't this change in practice mean a redistribution from those who don't have work to those who have work already? The council said this was not a big deal, because there were no changes in the external framework for the use of overtime. My question is: does the Council of State support any professional environment to propose this softening in the law? And do the Councils have confidence in their professional oversight and the research reports available on these issues? Is it to understand that the conclusion of the Council of State is that supervision and research reports are misleading in their conclusions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e482	First to the question of whether this leads to increased leave: No, I think it will lead to reduced leave. All the experience gained from countries or areas where work has been tried to be shared by more people has shown that the result is fewer jobs. The concrete feature of the proposal is that businesses should be given some flexibility in terms of overtime use in the short term. It will strengthen business. I thought there was a broad consensus in this room that the main threat to employment in Norway lies in the fact that the business environment is such that they have problems maintaining competitiveness abroad. This will strengthen the competitiveness of enterprises and, as such, create more jobs and prevent unemployment. So to the question of whether I have confidence in professional environments. Of course I do. I would like to point out that this matter, as I said in my main post, is not a big matter, but it is an important matter, and the important matter is based on principles about who will decide. I think that's the kind of questions that belong in this room and not in research environments. There are important questions of principle as to whether individual individuals and individual enterprises should have decision-making powers or whether there are organisations and state agencies that should have them. I'm fully aware that research environments can have opinions on this, I fully understand that organisations can have opinions on it, but it's this room that's the right forum for that kind of assessment. We can't expect professional environments or research environments to have the prerequisites for making the fundamental balance, which is essentially based on values and value anchoring, not on the assessment of the impact of actions in the research context. Having said that, I would like to add that the only opinion that has come to the conclusion that this proposal will lead to health damage is an opinion based on the assumption that the law is being implemented and the Labour Inspectorate will grant a derogation from all the remaining rules. It is clear that then it can be harmful to health, but that is not an argument in relation to the changes we are proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e489	My reply is not meant to be a technical criticism of the content of the statements of the Council of State – until I agreed with what he said. But I find it somewhat strange that last year's proposals of the Progress Party, on the decoration of the work environment legislation on night work, were rejected by the Council of State on the grounds that they wanted the most comprehensive review of the Work Environment Act, and reference to the Labour Law Committee. This time, therefore, the Council of State itself has put forward proposals for overtime work, and one cannot say that this is in line with what the Council of State said at the time of the most complete review through the Labour Law Committee. I think the Council of State should be asked a little explanation of the somewhat strange assessment in relation to the basis for rejecting the proposals of the Party for night work, and the question must then be this: Was the proposal of the Progress Party on night work a major matter? And is this Government proposal today on overtime work a small matter? Was that why our proposal was rejected last?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e494	It would have been tempting to repeat that it might be unclear whether the representative Andersen's question was a big question or a small question, whether it was a good question or a bad question. Actually, it's a very good question, because it affects a very difficult issue. I think most of us agree that we should have an overall approach, and as I have also said in the Questionnaire in Stortinget in the past, the difficult balances are whether or not we should wait for the Labour Law Committee on the matter we have now advanced. We have to consider all the proposals in this area based on their urgency, on how important it is to see them in an overall context. It has to be a question of judgement. We have assessed that the problem of the strict rules, not of total overtime, but of the time allocation of overtime, was so important for individual companies that it was urgent to do something about it. That is why we are now promoting this proposal instead of waiting for the Labour Law Committee. In addition, we believed that the other important aspects of this question, as I said in my previous answer, were of such a principle that there was no need for a professional assessment, there was a need for a political assessment, and therefore it could be taken directly. Our assessment when it came to the proposal for night work was that the urgency was not so great, and that the principal questions were not so central, and that therefore it was natural to wait for it. But I can agree with Andersen's representative that here we are in an area where there are questions of judgement, and a sense of how sensible people can come to different answers, and yet be reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e499	I think that the Council of State is not so small when he presents himself as a fan of the individual individuals and the individual businesses, while he manufactures those who disagree with him, as fans of the state and organizations, without nudging it any more. There's no doubt that this is a question of power. There are questions about a power that trustees in the trade unions today have. If you take away the possibility of planning overtime, of having influence over it, and of being involved and saying no to overtime for individuals, it's not that that power is now going to be moved down to the individuals, who are going to be superfluous because they've got so much more power. There's no doubt that at the moment you remove trustees as a link that has an influence on these things, and instead this leaves it to the real parties, the individual and the manager, or the head of department, you'll get a little more power to the individual individual. But there's every reason to believe that most of that power will disappear to the business leaders. This is the point of having trusted elected representatives, because that is the point of creating trust selection arrangements in classes, in workplaces, in defence – and all sorts of other places – even if there are clear lines. So even in these areas, we have made sure that the elected representatives have influence. That is why I believe this is a fundamental transfer of more power to the employer, which is not all right, and which is not compatible with our view. In addition, we may be mistaken. Of course, we may be making mistakes in relation to exclusion and in relation to the amount of working time. Of course she can, so let's be humble. But I think the opposite. I think that changing these overtime laws is going to lead to more exclusion and more brutalization. Then my question is, why has a total cost assessment not been carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e506	The President would point out that the term ‘freight’ is not an appropriate parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e509	To the fundamental question of power: I think the representative Holmås’ reflections are interesting, but I think there are a few things the representative Holmås forgets. Firstly, this proposal implies that the individual employee is the employer. But the individual employee is not deprived of the freedom to talk to whomever he or she wants. If the individual worker wants to conference with his chosen trustee and possibly have his trustee with him if you want to say no, there is nothing in the law that prevents it. If it is the case that the individual feels that the employer is exerting undue pressure and, therefore, would like to have the help of his or her trustee or trade union, it is fully possible. There's nothing in the law that limits it. But the new thing that's in the law is that if the employee doesn't want to be with his trusty, but wants to make the decision himself, the individual can do it. If it is the case that the individual does not want the local club to negotiate on his or her behalf and thus in many cases exert a social pressure to get the individual employee to work more overtime, it is avoided. In this sense, there is no doubt that the position of the individual is strengthened. In addition, I would like to point out that employers in 2003 are not like the employers they read about in the books on the pioneering time of the labour movement. We respect that employers are responsible employers. We have a law that intensifies employers' obligations in this context, no matter what happens to detailed overtime regulations. This means, in practice, that we are talking here about employers who are responsible, and individuals who have the opportunity to obtain support from those they wish when they wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e516	It is an OECD report on total working time per year. individuals in Norway who have been used as an example of people in Norway working less than people in comparable countries. I want to ask the Council of State to confirm that it has the fact that there are more people working in Norway, and of them there are more in the part-time position. Then I can't quite free myself from saying, after listening to the Council of State, that when he makes this proposal as a proposal from the Government to improve the framework conditions and thus strengthen the competitiveness, there must be an alibi in this respect in relation to the total lack of business policy for which the Government is currently responsible. For my part, I have our social minister, and I have a seat with sick leave statistics and seen that he has gone a path. I have a seat with the expenses of the people's fears that also went a path, and with demands for cuts, helped to create an idea bank to produce the good examples, met with leaders who really sat down to include more people in the working life, and reduced the Sandman selection, which came up with proposals for action at the individual workplace. I can't free myself from the impression that the government is now talking to two tongues. There's no match for what they're saying and what they're doing. They continue to be concerned about increasing sick leave, more long-term health care and disability, and not least are concerns about unemployment. Then you come up with a suggestion, and I don't understand one can explain that it will mean even greater sick leave, because it means pressure and stress for more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e525	Let me just remind you first that we have received a record high level of sick leave and a record high level of exclusion with the legislation we have today. There is nothing to suggest that the detailed regulation we have has actually helped to prevent the problems that the representative Meltveit Kleppa and many others now claim will result from an embellishment of the legislation. Exclusion, sick leave and stress are caused by a number of factors, and there is no evidence that this is due to an average of 48 hours per person. a week over a four-month period. There is no evidence that it is harmful to health. On the other hand, there is considerable evidence that social conditions in general, other aspects of the working environment and the economic environment by which businesses and individuals are surrounded, contribute to exclusion and sick leave. If we're concerned about these issues, we're going to have to put the measures in there. So Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa says that it's a practice to say that this will strengthen competitiveness, and that it's typical of a lack of business policy from this government. The last thing I disagree deeply with. On the first point, I would like to make it clear that I did not say that this was a big case, but I said that it is an important matter for some companies, and for those companies it means a lot to competitiveness. If my word is not worth anything in that context, I would like to remind you that the NHO also believes that this will strengthen the companies, and they should have the prerequisites to assess it. On the question of whether we work much or not in Norway, I can confirm, and this has been well known in many contexts for many years, that the Nordics work on average more than most people in the world during their lifetime. But in a mysterious way, we do it by spreading the work effort thinly over many people and over a terrible number of years. If it gets a little more concentrated now and then, I don't think it would have been so harmful.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e534	The president would point out that Heikki Holmås was charged with using the term "frekk", not Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e537	The council is an intellectual man, and I'm sure he knows the famous story of the frying oven and the freezer. It is therefore fully possible to reach 48 hours on average over a four-month period with significant loads in some periods and significantly less loads in other periods. Otherwise, it's interesting to notice the question of individuals. The working party will claim that the change that is now being made exposes individuals to increased pressure to work overtime in situations where they do not want it. Individuals are more directly exposed to the employer's perception of their goodwill, which may affect the employer's assessment of their willingness to provide general pay supplements, or the employer's willingness to provide a worker's opinion. The fear of the employer’s lack of understanding of the motives for saying no in many cases will lead to the fact that one goes further in saying yes than what one would do if one had a trust vote that stood between them and took the strain by saying no. Therefore, this is a weakening of the individual, by no means a strengthening. Governments are normally concerned with research and research results. The interesting thing in this case is that the Council of State chooses to completely disregard the professional advice coming from its own agencies and from the research institutions which are necessarily competent in this area. I also mention that the stasis here refers to as outraged examples, are examples that emerge from his own professional authority in letters to the ministry, where not only once, but twice refer to these examples. The Labour Inspectorate writes: «The working time scheme described will therefore be harmful to health in relation to the research carried out in this field.» This selects the State Council to ignore. I hope he does not choose to ignore research results in other areas. I also record that the Labour Inspectorate wrote in his letter: ‘In addition, we would point out that the Ministry’s opinion that the provisions on daily and weekly leisure time in § 51(2) and (3) will ensure that working time for shorter periods does not become unwarrantable is at best inaccurate. We point out that many businesses can agree that both daily and weekly leisure time should be shorter than the general rule of law, and that there is also access to overtime work during leisure periods. The possibilities of shortening periods of leave already exist in current legislation, but the possibility of overtime working is significantly limited by the rules on the length of overtime work per week and four weeks.’» There is no doubt that the individual individual is weakened by this treatment because they are less able to cope with an overtime requirement that they strictly do not want.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e559	I think we can only note that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen and I disagree as to whether the individual comes strengthened or weakened out of a situation where the individual actually gets more freedom of choice in relation to how the individual will deal with requests from the employer to work more. I also want to make it clear that we may also look at the behaviour of modern employers, and that the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen forgets that the requirements of the Employment Environment Act for employers to be responsible for the fact that employees do not work irresponsibly are there and are just as strong after the changes in the law we are now proposing, as it has been before. Employers are subject to very strict requirements in the law, and in the future the Labour Inspectorate will be much more able to monitor that employers comply with the provisions of Section 12 instead of having to deal with exemptions for up to 400 hours of overtime per person. years. So that's the out-of-office examples and the relationship to research. No, I'm not saying I refuse that working 14 hours a day for 8 weeks is harmful to health, because it will be for most people. But what I'm saying is that the changes we propose in the law do not allow this to happen unless the Labour Inspectorate approves. In this case, it is still the case that a government approval is required in order to actually work in a way that the professional authorities say is harmful to health. I assume that the Labour Inspectorate will not allow that type of overtime.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e568	President! To a manifest misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e573	The representative Schjøtt-Pedersen has asked for the word to clarify a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e576	Governments referred to Section 12 of the Working Environment Act. In a letter dated 5 September 2002 to the Ministry of Labour, the Labour Inspectorate wrote: «The Ministry believes that the Working Environment Act §§ 12 and 51 will ensure that working time arrangements will be sound. As far as Section 12 is concerned, we have stated, as we know, that the provision does not provide good protection as it is highly discretionary» If the Council of State is based on the misunderstanding that this protection is present, I assume that in some way he will ensure that the law is tightened, so that his intention may be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e586	In our opinion, § 12 is completely crystal clear, and I am absolutely sure that we have a work supervision that understands that it can carry out its supervision without specifying exactly what is in the concept of a working time that is harmful to health in the form of a law or regulation. But if it turns out that the Labour Inspectorate needs a special regulation to understand what is in Section 12, I will see to it that they get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e591	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e594	I'll try to hold a post without provoking unnecessarily. As I have a birthday today, I thought I would celebrate it tonight, but it seems that I have to do it overtime. In addition, I might have to go into action the night. It is a very poor combination, based on what I hear here from different representatives – it can be harmful. I think very much of the debate has somehow been clarified. I absolutely believe that much of the air has gone out of the Workers' Party, SV and the Senter Party in the course of the debate. Their arguments have fallen like flies. I think they probably have a problem dealing with, even in terms of what trade unions have to do with. I will not say that in any way I have any advantage in speaking out about negotiations between the employee and the employer, but in the past I was called LO-Pamp in my own party, simply because I have been elected to trust in LO. I have been sitting on that side of the table and negotiating with the employers. To a large extent, the members for whom I have been trusted have shown great irritation that they themselves are not allowed to have flexibility. Because this is not the way the representative Holmås tries to give the impression that he has competence, that the power lies with the individual trustee in the individual company. The power is on Youngstorget, that one. And then it's a little wrong that one kind of tries to put some tools into the hands of the individual trustees around the local workplaces, because they're busy being loyal and the company going well, and that the workplaces are being secured. However, we have an organisational structure that suggests that there is a centrality of equal regulation across all enterprises – all workers who have to be organised – regardless of whether the company might need to use a little extra overtime once in a while or not. And my claim is, without I can prove it, that tens of thousands of jobs have been lost because of it. I think we in this room should concentrate on creating jobs and preserving the jobs that exist. That's what this is all about. The representative of Meltveit Kleppa was very concerned about family life. Yes, I have been sitting and negotiating as trusted and experienced that workers have been busy with family life and have simply wanted for some periods to be allowed to work a little extra overtime in order to be able to take care of the family – they have wanted for some periods to be able to work a little extra to get the opportunity to be with their family at all. And it's not about a few thousand employees. It doesn't necessarily have to be that if a worker works some extra hours of overtime, it becomes something more in the long term, but it simply means that one can get some extra money that one can spend for quality time with his family over a longer holiday period, a longer weekend, etc. That's what occupied the employees for whom I was trusted. And it wasn't a small job, it was a big job. To the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen and others: I am, of course, a representative myself who sometimes draws the arguments in the longest team. So can Schjøtt-Pedersen. But it is not the case that labour inspectorates and trade unions say it will be like this, but that it can be that way. But then we have to trust that the employees are able to regulate it themselves. The representative Holmås showed it earlier today. He stopped working as a bartender because he thought he was working too much. Does he think that other workers cannot make such decisions themselves? Is it only the representative Holmås who is able to assess whether he is working too much or not? Of course, all other employees are doing the same. We can also refer to those who have tried to go in the opposite direction to what we want to do today, and that has resulted in increasing unemployment. One of the reasons why unemployment is now increasing is that we do not have enough flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e620	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e623	The good working life in Norway is created through cooperation between the social partners and the authorities. Those who care about history can tell about the time when it was a bad work life, and the way to good work. In good working life, there have been efforts to create values in order to share and secure jobs. That's the starting point for the trade movement today too: to create to share and secure. That dialogue will not involve the government parties or the Progress Party. They create a picture of the world of work that I don't know. But I know something in the reasoning that explains the proposal that is now available, and that is making an enemy image. And in that hostile image, you pull in the trade union movement and say that professional rights have gone too far, that they are in the way of competitiveness. My claim is that the good work life is the basis for competitiveness. Outside the borders of Norway, outside the Nordic region, we meet people who say something about the Nordic welfare state, which they look to as a model that they could imagine, because they live in completely different and more unsafe conditions. In the Nordic welfare model, you have professional rights, you have a cooperation. Those who have not been part of this historical tradition have stood for what one now wants to begin the march against: reducing professional rights. It's in the perspective this case is big. And then you can pretend that's not what you're talking about. But it says, and it's said, "We don't want strong trade unions, and we don't want systems that prevent what they call competitive." It's a dangerous way to move, and you try to experiment with work, which I don't think you'll be served. And then you start talking about making a scare image. No, I don't – at least I try not to – but I take seriously the objections that have come from professionally elected trustees, those who have been outside here and demonstrated, and those who have otherwise been in Stortingen to present their views on this matter. These are professional rights. This government has started the march to remove these rights. Personally, I am glad that on that side I am not standing, and then I am safe in view of the history of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e634	One gets to recognize that there is a multiple in this room that is now changing parts of the work environment law, despite strong reactions and warnings from both the professional community and organisations. Knowing that this matter has now been lost, I would nevertheless like to inform you that I do not overlook the fact that there can be a reversal when the Labour Law Committee's decision is taken in Stortinget, because the committee has said that the mandate for this selection is firm. Then it's to hope that, among other things. The Christian People's Party can come up with new and better thoughts in the next round. There's every reason to wonder about the turnaround of the Christian People's Party on this question, it's a stop to the question before the Cooperation Government and a follow-up. If it is that the Christian People's Party feels overwhelmed by a plural in the Government, they should say so. But if the Christian People's Party has really changed its position, it's an honest thing. I have to say, however, that there is a slightly surprising turn. We are, as I said, all aware of the broad process that is underway in connection with a holistic review of labour law, therefore we believe, of course, that it is a little reprehensible to deal with this proposal now. In many ways it has been a bit of a strange debate. The Government Party and the Advance Party have used most of their forces in a polemics against the Workers' Party and the Workers' Party's alleged interrelationship with the trade movement. Now the Labour Party has respect for the views expressed by the social partners. We also respect the critical comments and recordings that come from the professional community. And the combination of input from both professional and trade union bodies is what the Labour Party has concluded on this matter. I find that these points of view have not meant for the assessments made by the majority in this room. Finally, a little about Section 12 of the Working Environment Act. It is in many ways discretionary. If one is to assess this paragraph, it is a requirement that one has knowledge of medical research and case-law, says the Labour Inspectorate. In addition, supervision states that employers and employees do not normally have such knowledge, and therefore, Section 12 of the Working Environment Act does not provide adequate protection in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e651	To Victor Norman: Competition has a very clear effect. Theoretically, an similarity in production is forced to be the cheapest, the best and the most cost-effective, and all enterprises will adapt to such a type of production until they are found to be even more lurking, even better, cheaper and even more cost-effective. An example of this competition between, for example: countries are now looking at the net pay scheme. The net pay scheme for seafarers, as it is so wrongly called, is in fact a net pay scheme to allow shipowners to pay even less in tax than they do today. They say, well, if we don't get the same tax reliefs, if we don't get the same conditions as others, then this will lead to us flagging out. That won't lead to it. They have a choice of their own. But they choose to fly out if they don't get it much cheaper. In my opinion, this will also be the case for the individual employee of the individual company. For all enterprises, they want a level playing field in relation to competition. What does that mean in this case? If you have two companies that compete, and both companies need equal flexibility in relation to the workforce, that means that if one company chooses to give employees better opportunities, better rights, which may lead to increased costs for the company, let's say, it will lose out in competition with the other. If you relax your work rights and say that this is something that should be individually agreed, this is something that should be up to the individual, then the individual will obviously be exposed to the real problem: if we don't go along with what is proposed, and with which it competes on equal terms with others, it will cause the company to become less competitive. That is why it is so important to ensure that the conditions for employees are governed by law, like this one, so that they do not become the working environment of the workers with which they are old and compete. In addition, I would have liked to have Norman comment on the proposal that is now available, which means that one especially looks at whether there is no need for regulations in those parts of the working life where one depends on an increased vigilance for safety reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e663	This concerns the claim of interaction between the Workers' Party and the trade movement. I now disregard the agreements the Labour Party had to have with the individual unions. It is clear that there is no connection in the fact that the Workers' Party is talking about the trade union movement, we all respect that. But I actually feel that I am in the same situation, that I am talking about the trade union movement – the case of the members. Now it's based on measurements like almost 40 pst. by the members of the LO, sympathise with the Progress Party. So I have the same right to claim that I speak the trade union movement case. I don't call that contact, but it's respecting differences of opinion also within the trade union movement. As I said in my first post, I have been elected to trust for many years, and also at the time I was a representative of the Progress Party, on the local government, it was well known. And then it has to be respected too. In fact, I believe that by the fact that the Progress Party now supports the proposal under consideration here, I am in favour of much of the wishes of the trade union movement. So the council said, "There's no ban on working in the heel." I'll just recommend the council to be careful with such expressions, for it can give some blood on the tooth. In the next round there may be a suggestion against it as well. I think the debate has been so much shifted to the extreme in relation to what's on the table here, that it's kind of what's going to be the horror propaganda next time. When I was a trusted person, it wasn't that much time for the individual job, we were so busy. But we were very concerned about the content when the employees were at work, how they worked, and how the environment was at work. I don't think it's if you work eight or ten hours that makes the big difference. It's the environment in the workplace that tells you whether you get work loads, whether you're stressed, etc., and whether sick leave goes up – I think it's a lot more compared to that. When, in my first post, I claimed this with where the power lies, it is that I have subscribed to signing so many disunity protocols because workers locally – at the local workplace through their local trade union – have lost matters because they have been centrally tested for their wishes. These are the signals I think we need to take seriously, and we are actually doing that through the small changes we are making here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e672	I would have liked to see that we spent more time in this room on how we could jointly have a stronger commitment both to take care of the jobs we have today and to create new jobs. We are ready in the Center Party to support special measures to take care of businesses where Norway has a unique competence. We believe that measures are needed to strengthen the possibilities in those areas where we are already good. Not least, there is a greater commitment to the engineering industry in these days. We were surprised that the government party for a short time refused to have an emergency response in the government in relation to local communities with a one-sided working life when jobs were laid down. I would like to see initiatives from the Government on how we can work together to improve and create wide multiples to find solutions here. So I would like to comment on what has been said here when it concerns the individual. Because it's not that the plural has the right to evaluate the concern of the individual in this matter. On the contrary, it is the concern of individuals that makes the Committee more numerous to reject the proposals it is making today. And then it's almost made here as if today's rules don't allow for flexibility. I would like to see the Council of State confirm that this is the case, here is the possibility of the flexibility that Per Sandberg describes in relation to the provision of accommodation for the family. And it is also true that, where a waiver is applied for, the trust-elects beggar both before the exemption is necessary, in certain cases, and not least afterwards, the trustees and the Labour Inspectorate regret that the exemption is granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e681	To the representative of Meltveit Kleppa: it is clear that there is flexibility today, but there will be more flexibility with our proposal, and we believe more flexibility is an advantage. I would like to say to the representative Sandberg that I agree that there are strong words to say that we do not have a ban on working in the whole of Norway, and that perhaps you should avoid saying so. But when I mentioned it, it was to get the basic double standard that lies in part of the argument that has come into this room. There is a terrible concern that there should be no rules allowing individual workers to suffer health problems in their main job. However, there is no proposal for similar restrictions to prevent people from suffering health problems during extra work. And that double standard is itself, I think, a heavy argument against part of what has been said in the hall here today. Actually, I asked for the word for two other things. The representative, Opbebøen Hansen, pointed out that Section 12 of the Working Environment Act, which intensifies the employer’s obligation to provide a sound environment and to avoid workers suffering health problems, among others. as a result of working hours, there is a judgement and there is a judgement that is difficult to exercise. Yeah, that's right. But that is precisely why the Labour Inspectorate has for many years moved from a supervisory philosophy in which they enter and detailed checks compliance with detailed rules to the development of good internal control systems in enterprises. In this way, companies are responsible for taking overall responsibility for the working environment, including working hours. I have the confidence in the Labour Inspectorate that when they include the issue of overtime in the development of skills and internal control systems in enterprises, we will actually get an employer function that ensures a health-promoting working environment in the individual enterprise rather than what we get through detailed regulation. This in itself means that it is an advantage to have the issue of working time harmful to health transferred from hourly provisions to part of the employer’s general obligation to exercise and have systems in order to exercise qualified judgement. Finally, I would like to make it clear that the proposals that have been put forward here do not involve an attack on the trade movement in Norway and that we do not want to have a close dialogue with the trade union movement at all. In this respect, I would like to remind you that we are actually establishing a permanent working-life forum between the organisations and the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Administration, precisely to ensure that dialogue between the parties and the authorities on the design of all aspects of employment policy is closer and better than it has been before.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e692	Has the Christian People’s Party changed him? Apparently, the representative Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen was wondering about it. Do we feel pressure from our government partners? No, we see this as a necessary increase in flexibility in the workplace. We believe that labour rights are respected. We mean that this doesn't want to take any health or family life from anyone. Maybe we can achieve what Gerd-Liv Valla has said, that it's going to be as fun to work as dancing. This change is useful both for workers and for owners of the over hundreds of thousands of small businesses that we have in Norway – not a huge change, but important. So we're in cooperation with both the Right and the Left, and we know each other well. In the Sem Declaration, we have promised a better framework for business. We need that to create and maintain jobs in urban and rural areas. Entrepreneurship rights tax relief and lower interest rates are most important, but increased flexibility is also not to be despised.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e699	Heikki Holmås has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e702	I can't stand up to taking the word to the last thing that the Council of State says. He hassles a little with the opposition and asks why in all the world there is no suggestion to do something about double work. I think the council should take up that glove itself, instead of throwing it at us. If it is true that he believes that double work is a problem in relation to what we are talking about here – and it may well be a health problem that is being transferred here – it should be done with it. The point in relation to what is said when the Council of State talks about internal control, that it is very good, and that it is going to take on a greater share of the responsibility here, is that then it must pay off for the individual company to take care of the employees. The problem with the current competitive pressure in industry is that an increasing share of this pressure on competition is affecting workers. That's why you should do something about that. The Council of State has not made any proposals. That's why we think it's so bad that he does what he does now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e707	It's in many ways a privilege to be case spokespersons, because then a few can be as many three minutes one will. I feel in many ways that this debate is starting to go on overtime now – just a few very brief comments at the end. I thought it was a little strange when the representative Per Sandberg concluded that he is speaking the tradesman's case, when a collective tradesman is opposed to these changes. In the proposal, both labour supervision, protection measures and trustees are put on the sidelines by shifting the level of agreement from that area to individual level. Then Sandberg's conclusion becomes quite strange to me. Nor can I understand the Council of State when he claims that the proposal does not help to weaken professionalism, when it is such that the level of contract falls at individual level. But I'll leave it alone. I hope that in future debates we can try to find a consensus on inclusive working life, good working life, by establishing a model on which other countries become envious, by having a good labour market policy, a working life where there is room for everyone — including having a good family policy, a good health policy and a good social policy. That's my challenge for the next round. I conclude that today's decision is in a slightly different direction. Instead of a more inclusive working life, I believe that the proposal is to give us a more brutal working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e722	With a certain risk of extending the debate, however, I would like to participate, as parts of it have become a confession in relation to what people have driven up over time. I have barely had a day in my adult life as a paid employee. On the other hand, I have been an employer and business manager from 20 years old, the last ten years before I became a wholesaler, in an industrial enterprise where we had shift work and some monotonous work tasks that also involved a certain risk of wear damage – and so do. It is an industrial enterprise which is also highly seasonal. In the course of three months in the summer, the basis for a year's activity shall be laid down. It goes without saying that it's to those degrees hectic. I react strongly when it is presented in this debate as if there are some who are more concerned with the woes of small businesses and well than the others. Have I ever felt today's rules as a problem? No, never. It has never been a problem, even in such an enterprise, to adapt to today's rules and to be accepted within today's rules to meet the needs of such an enterprise. Will the new rules strengthen the competitiveness of this company? No, by no means. It's completely irrelevant to this company, just as it's completely irrelevant to a number of other companies. Would I then, in isolation, as a manager or as a business owner, or for the part as an NHO member, welcome these new rules? Yes, of course. Any rule that makes it easier for employers to drop some form fields and that strengthens the employer's power vis-à-vis the employee will be welcomed by any employer. When I don't do that anyway, it's based on an overall assessment of what's worthwhile, both for the employee and for the needs of the business community. There is a completely unnecessary change in the rules of business that is being made here. However, there is a change in rules that strengthens the employer in relation to the employee, so there is no doubt. When, on the one hand, the Council of State performs to say that he is afraid that the organisations should exert increased pressure on the individual employee, with the regime we have had until today, while on the other hand he is not afraid that the employer will increase the same pressure, I have to say that there is something that is not in the reasoning of the Council of State. It is clear that there will be increased pressure on the individual. It is also possible for the individual employee, within the current regime, to refuse to work overtime. Individual workers may not be charged overtime. It's full access to say no if you don't want to work overtime. There's no doubt that whoever gains more power is the manager. There is no doubt that this will lead to increased overtime use. After actually having had four different jobs at the same time for 15 years of my working life, I have to say that working many hours in one job, with the uniformity that it can involve, is a far greater burden than having alternating work. Having a beeswax is, in my opinion, far preferable to working a lot of overtime.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e737	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 357]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e745	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e810	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e821	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e828	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Kari Lise Holmberg on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 3, by Torbjørn Andersen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 4, from Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party The President first takes note of the proposals. Two, three, four. Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Labour Protection and Working Environment Act, etc., in order to make the provisions of the Act on night work more flexible by allowing the law to increase night work access in several types of establishments.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Labour Protection and Working Environment Act, etc., which introduces access to contracts with individual employees for overtime of up to 600 hours per employee. calendar year.’» Proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, reads: «The Government is asked to draw up regulations so that working time arrangements and overtime in professions responsible for safety or where the profession requires particular vigilance ensure safety and the interests of users and the general public.» These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e865	Alternatively, there will be a vote between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the right, from the forepart, and from the Christian people, saying,
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e938	President! There was something wrong here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e945	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e957	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-06-lower-2.ana.ud1388e971	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
