ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e51	The representatives of André Kvakkestad, Olav Gunnar Ballo, Eva M. Nielsen, Anita Apelthun Seele, Leif Lund, Haakon Blankenborg and Ine Marie Eriksen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: application, signed by the Head of Delegation, Mr Stortinget’s President, Mr Jørgen Kosmo, is made from the nominated Grand Duchy of Romania and Hungary. The application concerns a permit on the 18th and 19th of March for the President of Stortinget, Jørgen Kosmo, and the representatives of Ursula Evje, Finn Martin Vallersnes and Åse Wisløff Nilssen from Højres Storingsgruppe on welfare leave for the representative of Afghan Rafiq from 18 March to 21 March. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Hedmark County, Yngvar Aarebrot, is currently abroad and for that reason prevented from meeting in the Stortinge on the 18th and 19th of March, under the permission of the representative Åse Wisløff Nilssen. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund For Hedmark County: Steinar Reten For Oslo: Brit I. H. Andreassen For Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad For Vestfold County: Dag Terje Andersen2. Day Terje Andersen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the President of Stortinget, Jørgen Kosmo.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e128	Harald Espelund, Steinar Reiten, Brit I.H. Andreassen, Inger Lise Aarrestad and Dag Terje Andersen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e133	On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended so that the scheduled meeting in Odelstinget on Friday 21 March expires. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e138	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e143	I suggest Øyvind Halleraker and Anne Berit Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e148	Øyvind Halleraker and Anne Berit Andersen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker and Anne Berit Andersen are considered unanimously elected presidents of the current week’s meetings. The representative of Heidi Sørensen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e154	On behalf of the representatives of Kristin Halvorsen, Lena Jensen and myself, I will present proposals for the establishment of a national genetic engineering centre in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e159	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e173	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2236]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e189	I shall take the floor in order to put an item on the agenda that the Committee has not raised for consideration. The Government has taken the responsibility for it and for kgl. the resolution adopted to transfer the negotiating responsibility of teachers and school leaders to municipalities and county councils. On behalf of the Committee, I take note of this resolution. I expect that there may be some comments on what has been done, but the committee itself has not found that would go into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e198	When I sat in the education committee during the last growing-up period and made suggestions about transferring the negotiating responsibility to the municipalities, I didn't exactly get a big applause in this room. The proposal fell by a very clear margin, despite support, among other things. from the municipalities. That is why it was with great pleasure that we registered that the Workers' Party changed its view on the matter. This was also the backtrace for the Progress Party choosing to resume Document No. The 8th proposal, which is under consideration today. We wanted to test whether the Workers' Party's change of mind was a believer. Then something that changed the matter radically, namely the decision of the Government – a courageous and good decision, which naturally created reactions. I noticed that the Arbeiderpartei and SV in the setting believe that it should have been done in another way. I disagree. If we had added this to a long investigation process, I'm afraid it would have cleaned up the sand. It had to be cut through. It would have been to hope that the sitting government had shown the same power of action in other matters, for example. in criminal policy and asylum policy, where there is evidence of almost the paralysis of action. This is a happy decision that goes in the right direction. It must be clear that there has been a clear lack of logic that the teachers have negotiated with the state, but received their salary from the municipalities. We hope that development will move towards even more decentralisation, where teachers negotiate with the individual municipality and eventually with the individual school. The aim of the Progress Party is an individual wage determination based on qualifications, effort and performance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e214	As the representative of the Progress Party said, the Labour Party decided at its national meeting to transfer the negotiating responsibility for salary to the teachers from the state to the municipalities and county councils. It was supposed to be a process in good cooperation with the teacher organisations. I think it would have been possible if the Storting had been treated in the usual way that we were dealing with things. We had a Document No. Eight proposals from the Progress Party and were ready to deal with it. But in the meantime, the government came and decided this matter almost overnight, without any dialogue with the organisations and the parties involved. This way of working from the authorities' side is very unfortunate. It creates dissatisfaction and poor cooperation climate, which in turn creates rebellion and uncertainty throughout society. It is not always the case that it is easier to obtain forgiveness than to ask for permission to do so. In this case, the Prime Minister himself had to negotiate with the teacher organisations afterwards. After all, it all ended up with 60 million. kr to the process and some agreement. The process in the Workers' Party is regrettable, but unfortunately we also see it again in the proposal for the relocation of supervision in St.meld. No 17. It should be possible to have better dialogue before issues presented to the Storting, especially in a society as small as Norway is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e223	I take note that the question of this private proposal travels, was decided by the Government as early as 31 January of this year, and that it has a majority behind it in the Storting. The way in which this was done, without including the teachers' own organisations in the process, has for good reason been strongly criticised. But I'll leave it in this round. When SV has opposed the transfer of negotiating responsibility for the teachers from the state to the municipalities, it is because we believe that the school is in a special position. The reason for having State bargaining responsibility for teachers, and thus for having a unified pay system for teachers, has been to ensure a high-quality initial training throughout the country. There is broad political agreement on the importance of well-qualified teachers in order to create a good training offer and good school performance. The responsibility of the State for negotiation rests, inter alia, with: make it possible to conclude agreements which have given teachers a substantial and necessary pay gap and have helped to increase the recruitment of the teaching profession. For SV, it is important that schools in all parts of the country get well-qualified teachers to make the school both exciting and educational for the students. All students have the right to a good and equivalent training offer, regardless of where they live. The ability to attract motivated and skilled teachers by offering good pay and working conditions shall not depend on the local economy. Therefore, SV believes that the negotiating responsibility for the teachers should remain state-owned. Of course, it is essential that municipalities get enough resources to pay the teacher’s salaries and other expenses by running the schools. There has also been an SV driver in repeated budgetary proceedings in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e232	I'm just going to make a short comment, because it looks like most of the games here come with an announcement of the respective programs. In the Centre Party, we also have a programme to ensure that the pay negotiations for teachers are transferred to the local government sector. It will strengthen municipal self-government, and it is logical that wage negotiations take place between employers and employers. But I would also like to express my concern about the somewhat flexible way in which this was done. It should have been possible to have an inclusive and not least oriented process with the teacher organisations in this matter. So far, I share the concerns expressed in the Workers' Party and SV comments, but otherwise the Center Party supports both the Government and the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e241	Just a brief remark to the representative Pedersen, who criticises the Government for the way it has dealt with this matter. It surprises me, first of all, that the Workers' Party criticises the Government for taking responsibility for it, and, second, that it presents a criticism together with the Socialist Left Party in the form of an observation in the vote, without any evidence or justification of the need for such criticism. But it's obvious that someone knows more than others about this. And if there are any criticisms about this, I would remind you that we have a separate body for it in the house, and that it is not up to the family, culture and administration committee to carry out such a review and criticism of what the government has done. So on that basis, I just want to say again that we do not regard this case as being dealt with in reality in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e246	I do not know if the representative Ola T. Lånke was fully involved when the representative Pedersen spoke. We agree with the conclusion. What we're criticising is that the government doesn't think it's necessary to talk to the parties that this concerns. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e251	Then it seems to have been clarified. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2236]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e269	Document No The 8th proposal from the Progress Party, which we are considering today, is extensive, but is based on the fact that the book business agreement is being repealed and that the media ownership law is being changed to include the book business. The party of progress has always been opposed to the book industry agreement, and Document No. The 8 proposal provides a thorough review of their vision. I assume that the members of the Committee will present their views to the Party. The current book-keeping agreement was concluded in 1998 and is due to expire in 2004. The majority of the Committee, all without the members of the Progress Party, did not address the realities of the proposal. The Minister for Culture has warned that this issue should be addressed in the notable cultural message. I would just like to stress the Committee's plural comment, that the scope of the theme requires a thorough analysis and a thorough review of the whole complex of cases. The centre party has viewed the book business as an important tool, where equal access to equal price has been an important principle. The centre party has previously been associated with the Workers' Party, SV and the Christian People's Party, pointing to the importance of the business agreement for housing composition to maintain a large and dense bookstore network. But the Central Party also sees the need for a thorough review in this area and looks forward to the Storting being able to debate this field on a broad basis when it announces the message of culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e278	It's actually a little sad that the majority in the room chooses not to deal with the matter now, but waits for the cultural message to come. The reason for this is that the cultural message will be large and cover all aspects of cultural life. Fortunately, there is a great diversity in our cultural life, and this deserves proper treatment. But I think the Storting would really be worth adding some literature policy leaders before we get the big message. The cultural message is to be addressed to the autumn, and all of us sitting in this room know that in the autumn, our budget takes a great deal of time. I am therefore concerned that something as important as a major cultural policy debate will be lost in the budgetary procedure. The book-keeping agreement expires on 1 January 2004 and a new agreement should be renegotiated before that date. Now that the majority does not want to take this debate separately, I am afraid that this is going to go beyond the reality of the proposal. It is with concern that fewer and fewer people will decide what the Norwegian people will be allowed to read. This is what happens when a few large publishers buy up more and more book dealers. It helps little then that we are getting more and more authors in Norway, when the publishers don't even think they deserve to assess some of these, because they don't sell enough. That we also have publishers who price their own books to the consumer, we do not see them as a good solution either. We can end up with a few titles that cost little, so that the reading of the Norwegian people is actually directed in the right direction. Competition between publishers can therefore have a significant impact, including cultural policy. There is not necessarily a conflict between good literature policy and competition in the book market. On the contrary, market pricing, as has been done in both Sweden and Finland, would probably lead to a stronger growth in the number of new titles. This will benefit the consumer through a wider offer and lower price of the titles that constitute the large volumes. It's ringing alarm bells at my place. I was at a book fair right outside here. There I thought I would experience the diversity of literature policy, but it consisted of one book club, one dealer and one publisher. Whether the book club and the bookstore were also owned by the same publisher, I will not say anything about it, but that is not the way we consumers want it. In order to avoid ownership becoming cartel activity where everything is predetermined and where there is no room for both small and large publishers, book dealers and authors, the Progress Party wants to put literature policy on the agenda. Unfortunately, the majority do not want it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e289	The book business agreement requires serious treatment. It deserves the book, the writer, the readers and everyone working on books. It's not enough to change or cancel the book business agreement with a pen stroke through a private bill. With this proposal, the Progress Party will launch a competitive sector with wide-ranging cultural policy objectives. According to the Progress Party, free competition must safeguard the interests of both narrow and broad audiences. It is the book business agreement that ensures this very goal that the Progress Party wants to achieve. Free competition in a market has never been able to safeguard both broad and narrow interests, equal conditions and accessibility for all – without regulatory intervention. The chairman of the Norwegian children’s and youth authors points out that experience from all other countries shows that if price regulation and an agreement on the conditions of competition fall in the book industry, the authors’ agreements are also affected. For authors, this means poorer working conditions, and for readers, a lack of industry regulation means poorer book offers with even greater emphasis on the profiling of best sellers and fewer book dealers. So-called fixed-price laws are becoming more and more common in the EU. It shows that more and more countries in Europe have realized that books are about more and more than just money. SV welcomes the signals from the Minister of Culture that the cultural message coming to the autumn will include an in-depth analysis of the whole case complex and will address the book industry in a cultural policy perspective. It is in such a framework that the book business agreement should be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e296	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2236]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e312	In Document No: 8:49 it is proposed to remove the benefit tax on the payment by the employer of monthly tickets for public transport for workers. It means, in practice, that wages paid in the form of monthly cards for public transport or in the form of compensation for the purchase of such monthly cards are exempt from taxation. The reason for the proposal is that this should improve air quality in large cities, because the proposers believe that the right to deduct will lead to increased use of public transport instead of more polluting transport by car. The Minister of Finance has issued an opinion in which, after an overall assessment, he does not recommend the proposal. The Financial Committee considers, in principle, that all forms of remuneration should be taxed equally. This means that the employer's payment for benefits in kind, as a monthly card will definitely be, is to be taxed as normal wages. The proposal violates this principle and, in the view of the majority, such a derogation requires very good justification. Moreover, the majority of the Committee considers that it is rather uncertain whether this proposal will have any demonstrable impact on air quality. In addition, the proposal will raise some control issues in relation to proof of whether the deduction is real, and it will also complicate the pay routines of the companies related to it. Furthermore, it must be pointed out that this subsidisation of monthly cards will differ from the level of income of employees, so that those with the highest income receive the most relative subsidisation of their monthly card. This proposal conflicts with the general objective of simplifying the tax system and with the objective of limiting the use of the tax system for a number of purposes other than bringing revenue to the State in a fair, efficient and practical way. The majority conclude that the proposal is annexed to the protocol, and I would recommend the suspension of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e323	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e326	I want to take the floor for a line, and it's about the majority's reason for not supporting this. First of all, it is not believed that more people will travel collectively if a tax haven is introduced and you change the rules that apply now, but it is also believed that there are major control problems. The latter may be the case, but there will probably also be a part of the other similar exceptions made to the rule that all income is to be taxed on a benefit. A year ago, we decided that treatment insurance paid by the employer should not be subject to preferential taxation. A short time ago, the Stortinget adopted a similar exemption for free kindergarten. Also in those cases, documentation is required from the individual employer, and I cannot see that there should be a greater control problem in this case than in what I mentioned in the case of free treatment insurance. I want to get a more detailed reason why it should be more difficult in this case than in the one I have now mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e331	As was said in the introduction, there is an overall assessment that has been taken into account here. In comparison with measures to improve the environment in large cities, it may be possible to do so in several ways. I would assume that there are more effective ways of improving collective provision in big cities than giving tax deductions on a general basis for the payment of monthly cards. There is a wide range of different deduction schemes in the tax system that violate tax collection principles effectively, but that does not mean that we need to adopt new such schemes. There is no doubt that there are also differences in attitudes to some of the decisions that have been taken in the past, including: in relation to this kindergarten decision. So, in relation to this specific proposal, there is an overall assessment of the majority position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e336	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e339	First just to the last answer. There are other assessments than what is written in the setting, I understand, and we may hear about that on another occasion. Last winter, there have also been reports of periods of dangerous health air in Norwegian cities. At least that's true in Oslo, Trondheim and Bergen. There is little doubt that private cars make a major contribution to urban air pollution. I have read that diseases caused by contaminated urban air in Norway cause the loss of more lives than traffic accidents. If international air quality requirements are to be enforced, the use of a private car would have to be prohibited on a few days. A situation with a ban on the use of private cars in cities would be very difficult today because collective means of transport do not have the capacity to take over. At the same time, we read that the number of travellers, for example, with Oslo Sporveier in the last year was significantly lower than in the past. The reasons are assumed to be adverse price developments for such journeys compared to the petrol price, and the supply to collective travellers has deteriorated. It is not only useful to point out the health hazards of urban air. It is not only useful to want more people to travel collectively rather than to drive at work. In my opinion, both incentives and restrictions are needed. The Centre Party has for many years proposed increased subsidies from the State for public transport, in addition to the Government's proposals. In the meantime, the situation of many carriers has worsened. The poorer economy leads to poorer offers for travellers. Increased car traffic also slows down the queues for the buses. The result is a negative spiral, which also results in increased costs for public health budgets: fewer journeys by bus and train, more people use private cars, less air and more noise. The centre party wishes to prevent adverse impacts on health and the environment that pose problems for individual and large expenditure on public budgets. Such prevention is profitable for society. Unfortunately, the government has been unwilling to help quantify the costs we want here to reduce. We believe that tax incentives to travel collectively will have a double effect because people value lower taxes very high, and because the state with such a measure gives a strong signal of what development you want. On the other hand, it is twice as bad when tax relief is given in a way that increases unlucky behaviour. Free parking as a tax-free treat is such an example. The centre party believes it is right to use the tax system to influence social development, as experience shows that such incentives are very effective in influencing people’s behaviour. In particular, to influence behaviour positively on health and environmental issues, we want to use the tax system. The present proposals deal with both of these aspects: an urban environment with less noise, dust and exhaust – less risk of accidents and other health hazards. Less pollution – better health. It is strange that the Minister of Finance, in his overall assessment of the present proposals, does not mention a single word about positive societal impacts. Based on such a comment that the proposed tax exemption will not lead to more people travelling collectively rather than driving their own car, I find it unlikely. The majority in the Committee also do not believe that more people will travel collectively about tax exemptions being introduced, but it is believed that many companies and their employees will be tempted to cheat on such a scheme. The last aspect is alarming, as all batches have voted in the last year for one or more derogation schemes with the same control problems. These are matters concerning daycare facilities paid by the employer and treatment insurance paid by the employer. Documentation from each employer is also required in these cases. Also for the recently adopted exemption schemes, which I have now mentioned, the effect was uncertain. Even today, it may seem that very many employees will benefit from the schemes put in place and that the demand for, for example, treatment insurance will increase considerably. Once again, it shows that the effect of tax incentives is stronger than other economic incentives. I am disappointed with the outcome of this matter, but I am not surprised that the most intense tax-free parties say no when the tax bill comes from the Central Party. But I'm surprised that by the majority you won't say more about why you say no when you think it makes sense that free parking, free children's playgrounds and private treatment insurance are tax-free benefits. The proposal submitted is in accordance with the requests made to the Financial Committee in connection with the budgetary procedure before Christmas, from Nature and Youth and from the Transport Users’ Joint Organisation. The fact that the majority of the committee would not have consulted to allow them to present their arguments is disappointing. The Chief Financial Institution of the financial industry, with Arne Skauge at its head, was given the opportunity to come to support the proposals of the Progress Party on tax exemptions for private treatment insurance as a benefit a year ago. The Minister of Finance expressed in his letter that a tax exemption would discriminate, for example: between those who live most centrally and others. The centre party considers such discrimination to be necessary because the poor and dangerous air must be controlled where it exists. This is about local problems, which are large-scale, and which affect a lot of people. I feel sure that the government will serve to provide the tax relief proposed here, because the health costs will be greatly reduced. I will end by expressing a hope that others, too, can reach the same conclusion as the Center Party, for example. in dealing with the public health policy issue, which is full of good descriptions of the need to prevent health damage but which says less about concrete actions. Finally, a small parentheses. After the suspension was given, the Committee received letters from Managing Director Arne Skauge and four other directors of the social organisations on the suspension of the Skauge Committee. They warn in the letter against a bit of treatment of the cancellation in Stortinget, but at the same time they write that they take a positive view of a previous consideration of proposals that provide tax relief. This is such a proposal. It provides tax relief and does not break any more with the principles set out in the Skauge Committee than Arne Skauge strongly recommended in the Committee’s consultation on 25 April 2002, which concerned treatment insurance as tax-free benefits. I would then like to support the proposal of the Central Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e379	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e382	It's a big challenge for our society how we can make living urban environments, how we can make an air quality, or create an environment at all, for our kids, and for others, live in cities, so that it's viable. This means that getting more people to use public transport is a major challenge. The reason why we have chosen not to support the proposal today is simply that we perceive it so that this is part of a slightly larger discussion. We ourselves, on the side of the SV, have in our time proposed a VAT exemption for investments in public transport. This was promoted in connection with the case of reduced food tax, which was promoted here 11⁄2–2 years ago – perhaps even a little longer ago. We simply did that in order to improve the ability of collective societies to invest in order to reduce the price and increase the take-offs. We agree with the Central Party that it is a major challenge to make sure that more people travel collectively, and less private cars, especially in cities. The reason why we have chosen not to support this proposal this time is simply that we believe that taking this discussion a little bit, as we perceive it will be with this proposal, will be unwise. This is a small part of a larger discussion. These are public transport appropriations to bring down the price, to increase the frequency of departures and to make it more attractive for ordinary travellers to use public transport. It is also about how to improve the general framework conditions for tour operators and public transport operators in cities and elsewhere. That means that this proposal as such can be one of several that we think is wise to discuss. As I said, I'm not sure if it's wise to take this a little bit in the way the Center Party has done. That's why in this setting we have chosen not to support the proposal, but we think it might be wise to come back to this and more suggestions in a wider discussion on how to provide tax incentives and tax incentives to get people to use public transport. We're not fundamentally opposed to the way the Center Party thinks about it here, but we haven't chosen to support this proposal simply because it's part of a slightly larger discussion. However, we believe that the challenge raised by the Central Party is important, we believe that this discussion is important, and we find it sad to see that, in particular, the sitting government has broken its electoral promises a lot in supporting public transport. It was one of the most important issues, especially for the Christian People's Party, in the last election campaign, and we see no result from this. It's depressing, and it does, among other things, as the Center Party points out quite correctly, that the air quality in our cities is going to deteriorate year after year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e395	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e398	First of all, I would like to commend the Socialist Left Party for its comment that it is the consideration of the effectiveness of the tax system that makes it impossible to support this proposal. My question is about a different, similar, proposal, the so-called 'childcare arrangement', where one has opted for a completely identical mechanism, which has the same injustices with regard to the employee, because it is those who have the highest salary, who get the best benefits, and that it is up to the employer to decide who benefits from such a scheme. Questions can then be asked whether there are different principles that apply in this Decision in relation to the decision on the kindergarten agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e406	What this had to do with today's attitude, it's a little difficult for me to have an absolute education about. We have a pragmatic view of many of these relationships. The same thing is true of the right hand side. The right has called for tax exemptions for treatment insurance, which are identical to the principle enshrined in this proposal of the Central Party, as made by other decisions of the Stortinget. This means that you have to always think about how you can achieve what you want, whether you want to use the tax system, whether you want to use grants, or whether you need to use other tools — laws, regulations, or whatever it is. We're no fundamental opponent of this way of thinking, as I also said in my post. It depends on how we achieve the best effect. In principle, we believe that a tax system with the smallest possible exceptions is the most sensible, but at the same time one will see that this cannot be practiced in the real world. This means, for example: that many of the proposals now made by the Skauge Committee to clean up a tax jungle are unlikely to be supported by the Right, simply because they will see that it is impracticable to make such extensive changes to the tax system. Because I think it's also like, Mr. Hansen and his constituents have something they're going to say in this case, and that means it's not that easy to be principled forever. We agree with the principle of principle. In addition, there is a pragmatic approach to this. With regard to the proposal on kindergartens, we have agreed to this simply because it is part of a comprehensive agreement, where we thought the win was great – a win that hundreds of thousands of kindergarten parents in the country will eventually receive. The most important thing in this agreement is that there is an agreed majority in the Stortingen that is behind a package based on the child's growing-up conditions, kindergartens, and where tax is one small element.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e417	The President considers that there is reason to recall that the replacement of the lines will focus on today's case and the theme of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e420	The reason I asked for the word was that there was doubt about the Government's willingness to invest in public transport. First, I would like to say to the Central Party that this proposal should have been a debated collective message, so that one could see it in connection with the collective effort. For the Left, it is important to point out that we cannot solve everything through tax systems, but we can solve a lot by allowing the state budget. In the budget for this year it is actually a historical collective effort. There's never been so much public spending on it, and it's the Left's going to follow up. Then I want to say that the proposals of the Skauge Committee are out on the ears, and I hope that in that debate we can clean up some of the things that we are now passing on to the tax haven, but that should perhaps have been passed on to other promises – that applies to both the proposal of kindergarten and collective focus. I couldn't help but say the word when it was pointed out that this government lacks the will to invest in public transport – because it is actually committed to it! And we hope that maybe we will get support from the Socialist Left Party to increase the bet on public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e431	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2236]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e447	Document No 8:50 proposes to amend the rules on duty-free importation of luggage, the so-called luggage regulation, so that the quota for meat and meat products is set at 10 kg without including cheese and feed. The reason is that the proposers believe that today's legislation imposes an unreasonable restriction on frontier traders. At the same time, the proposers consider that the amendments made to the luggage regulation with effect from 10 January 2003 clearly liberalise the legislation. The Financial Committee also points out that the Ministry of Finance made a comprehensive clean-up and simplification of the luggage regulation. The background for this document no. The 8th proposal is the original proposal notified by the Ministry in a press release on 8 July. The consultation round of this original proposal led to concerns related to meat, cheese and feed. The Ministry then made some relatively small adjustments to the proposal on the basis of these consultations, and the majority of the Financial Committee shares the assessment made that the considerations taken are reasonable. It is clear that the Government has made a major simplification of the legislation. This is for the benefit of cross-border Nordics. The fact that in such a simplification process minor adjustments were made based on consultation recordings is, in my view, a sign of quality in the decision-making process. The adjustments have not significantly affected the fact that this is a clear liberalisation. The majority of the committee is annexed to the proposal in the Minutes, and I recommend that the Committee be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e460	On the part of the Labour Party, we agree that the considerations taken after the consultation round are reasonable, but I ask for the word to point out that the path to the balance that was finally found was not as neat and reasonable – as we also point out in the vote. The press release sent out on 8 July last year announced an even greater simplification. Then we got some rounds at the end of last year where the simplification was considerably less, before we concluded that cheese and feed were also to be included with meat in the 10-kilos quota. I had a question-time question that took some time before the finance minister was given the opportunity to answer, so it had been concluded. In the exchange of words in the Question Time on 12 February this year, I also pointed out that the Ministry of Finance, through the way this matter was dealt with, had created uncertainty and – I would believe – helped to delay it, so that at the turn of the year there was uncertainty about the rules that were in force. Then, among other things, I took the fact that the press release had not specified that it should be a hearing. There it was presented as a proposal. In the context of the budgetary procedure, where the matter was raised, it was clear that it was a hearing. But in his last reply in the Question Time, the Minister of Finance said: ‘In the press release it was clarified that this was a hearing and in the information for the Storting it was thoroughly underlined that this was a hearing.’ The last one's right. However, in the press release, it is not easy to find evidence of a clarification that this was going to be heard. The press release says: ‘The Ministry of Finance wants a strong simplification of the customs and duty-free entry of luggage.’ And on the other hand, ‘The new rules shall enter into force as from 1 January 2003 on a planned basis.’» I think you should sit quite far inside the inner corridors of the Ministry of Finance to be able to read the words "wanted" and "according to the plan" as a clarification that this is going to be heard. I mention this because the Minister of Finance was injured to say something in Stortinget that was not entirely in line with what is in the press release, and I hope that his memory might be a little better today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e486	This proposal is known to simplify the rules for duty-free imports by allowing the quota for meat and meat products to be set at 10 kg without being subject to cheese and feed. However, the proposal does not alter the value limits of NOK 3000 and NOK 6000, which one must stay within. It is quite clear, as said by the case-speaker, that the amendments to the luggage regulation, published on 10 January 2003, resulted in a simplification of the situation before that. Nevertheless, the status today is that Customs still has to use resources to check whether cheese, feed and meat remain within the weight limit of 10 kg. There are also additional problems when the Ministry of Finance distinguishes between feed for different pet animals. Dog and cat food, according to current rules, is not covered by these weight limit rules, while other pet food, such as: undulates and hamsters are exempt from this weight limit. The reason for such a love for dogs and cats and the fact that food for this group should be avoided is somewhat unclear. Anyway, it's certain that this could create more work for Customs. For this reason, the Progress Party will present this Document No. the 8th proposal, in order that the weight limit of 10 kg should relate only to meat and meat products. This will result in a simplification for both travellers and Customs. With such a change, the Customs Service can focus more on serious infringements of the Customs Act, and one does not have to do so much work to mess up the shopping bags of travellers, among others. to check the nature of the feed brought by the individual into Norway. I would like to address the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e497	The representative, Mr. Hagesetter, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e500	While the Labour Party seems to be the most busy of the procedures in this case, I will refer you to the note that the SV and the Center Party had in connection with the budgetary procedure before Christmas. We just took the point that one didn't know the result of the hearing when the finance committee got the case on the table. Several of the instances just showed the extensive consequences the proposed change would have. Fortunately, the government has taken the consequences of any of that, but we still think there is reason to be concerned about the consequences of the changes that are now being proposed. We are particularly concerned about the situation associated with food-borne infectious and contagious animal diseases. One of the most important reasons why we have so far had a very good situation when this is the case is, among other things. that there has been a limited and regulated import of both feed, livestock and livestock products. And we should be aware that the livestock products sold in border areas in Sweden originate from other EU countries or third countries, which have a significantly worse animal health situation than what we have. There is also reason to recall that the outbreak of the foot-and-mouth disease epidemic in England had caused imports of food-borne infections. We're not going to forget it, even though at times memory can be short. There is also reason to ask questions about this softening when the EU is now going the opposite way. The European Commission has just proposed, in the light of recent infections, to tighten up its legislation by generally prohibiting private imports of meat and dairy products into the EU. So we're going the opposite way, even though before this change, we had one of the most liberal rules in this area. So finally, both the Farmers' Team and the Meat Industry's Joint Association were among those who pointed out the consequence this could have for the employment within these industries. The meat industry warned against 1 300 lost jobs. Although the proposed change has not been fully implemented, and although the meat industry and the peasants’ numbers are ‘worst case’, it is absolutely worth noting these numbers. I am a little concerned that neither the Government, the Labour Party nor the Progress Party have been able to see this matter in the light of the employment situation we have, and especially in a time of nearly 100,000 unemployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e513	Change in luggage regulations – that's what it was about in the budget before Christmas. This had considerable consequences, as pointed out during treatment, but it is only after treatment that the consequences have been properly documented in the consultation round. We were told before Christmas, which has been confirmed, that several thousand jobs in Norwegian meat production, in Norwegian industry, in transport and not least in trade are now being hit. Maybe there are 5,000 jobs combined. The proposal to increase quotas was justified by the fact that so many broke the rules we had, even though they were much more liberal than the EU rules on private meat imports. I would like to mention that 5,000 annual vacancies cost society NOK 1 billion a year only in unemployment benefits. In addition, society loses more money in taxes and VAT and, as a result of these 5000 lost annual works, the value added is greatly reduced. The government parties and the Labour Party don't think it's worth paying attention to such losses for the state – maybe it's NOK 2-3 billion we're talking about. Many of the budgetary problems we have now had could have been avoided or reduced. The change of government after budgetary procedure is really of no importance for meat. There'll probably be about the same amount of meat imported with these changes as well. I note that the Progress Party believes that the loss of society should be even greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e524	I would just like to say, for the sake of order, that when representatives talk about EU rules, they are about imports from third countries, and as some EU countries already – 15, and perhaps after 25 – so the possibility of cross-border luggage is quite significant for EU members. To the representative Svein Roald Hansen, I just want to say that I agree that the press release should have been clearer on that point. I'd like to take that criticism inward, it should be clearer. But at the same time, I record that you are satisfied with the information given in Stortinget on the matter, and that a postponement of 10 days of the implementation that was scheduled to take place on 1 January is to live with, because one among other things. has stressed that some of the objections raised should be taken into account. The representative of Grande Røys is on a day like this worried about the change. Let me say it this way: I think there's more to worry about today and in the weeks that come, than exactly the border trade in feed. I can assure you that the changes that have been made to feed have taken place in consultation with the Ministry of Agriculture and the underlying professional authorities, so that there should be no cause for concern at all at this point. However, I record that border guards have now become SV's instrument in the fight against unemployment. Historically, all experience has told us that border protection leads to the very opposite – greatly increasing unemployment. So I hope there won't be any more of that kind of proposal. The meat industry has generally expressed concern. I have not recorded that this concern has been repeated after the proposal has been implemented, and I think it is a deeply exaggerated concern. Finally, only one reflection: no one has so far mentioned a single word in the debate on consumer concerns. It's actually also been an important purpose of the change that it's a consumer-friendly change we're doing here. But this is the first time the debate mentions it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e537	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e540	Now it was not exactly the import of feed that caused this representative to be concerned, neither in terms of jobs nor safety. It was probably more meat industry's concern. And I believe that both the Minister of Finance and the representative who's on the platform now also have a completely different concern about what's happening out there today than what's happening here. But it's not more than a year since we had quite extensive concerns in this nation related to animal diseases and food-borne contamination. And if it's not a relationship that concerns consumers, I don't understand. We are just seeing that in Europe there is an entirely different hold among consumers for the control of food and infectious diseases coming through the food. We want strict import protection and control of the food to be sold to our consumers, and if the Minister of Finance doesn't agree with me that it's being busy with consumer interests, I think he should think about it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e545	It's important to think all the time – not just once more. And then I think you'll find that there's probably no decisive difference between 3 and 10 kg, because the risk of spread of infection had to be that Sweden might not have been subject to the rules on food control that apply in Norway – but that's actually Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e551	I understood the Minister of Finance that we really should not have a debate on the issues that Stortinget has put on the agenda today because things are happening in the world. However, we must have it, and I think that this matter is worth the small debate that has been – when the Progress Party has promoted this proposal and we have it for consideration. What led me to take a line was what was said by the Minister of Finance, that all experience suggests that border protection leads to increased unemployment. Is it true that the Minister of Finance believes that the level of protection we have to protect Norwegian food production, the employment it brings, and the importance of Norwegian agriculture for Norway as a society are simply one-sidedly unfortunate? I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e558	I have not made any comments against the debate. I guess I've rather triggered it on the contrary. But my point was perhaps that there are other things to worry about at the moment than just conditions in the meat industry or any spread of diseases. It is, of course, being actively combated in other areas. My point of the historical significance of border protection is linked to the following reasoning: All the experience of the modern economy from this and the last century suggests that free trade is what leads to the most effective fight against unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e563	For its part, the President will state that he has nothing against the representatives of the Storting or the government representatives expressing concern about the serious situation we are facing today. Several have not asked for the word in reply, and others have not asked for the word on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e573	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e608	During the debate, Mr S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Progress Party, raised the following proposal: ‘The decision asks the Government to bring an action for the abolition of the exemption from the competition law in respect of the book-keeping contract and for the assessment of changes to the Media Ownership Act in order to include the book-keeping industry.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e633	During the debate, Mr Lund has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to remove the benefit tax on the payment by the employer of the monthly public transport card for their employees.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-18.ana.ud1684e658	During the debate, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to amend the rules on duty-free imports of luggage so that the quota for meat and meat products is set at 10 kilograms without being covered by cheese and feed. The other types of goods in question are subject only to the restriction on value.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
