ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e38	Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 15.00, until the current map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e54	At the request of the Church, the Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes each, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the President proposes that the representative Simonsen should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e65	First, I would like to commend the members of the Committee and the various fractions of the work that has been done. The process has been tidy, and the information between the fractions has been good. It has therefore been possible to keep good progress in the treatment of this setting. It is the Workers' Party and the government parties that are behind the majority voting. In addition to the majority voting, there are minority proposals in the framework of both the SV and the Progress Party. I assume that the government parties and the Workers' Party will justify their position, and that the Advance Party will do the same for its part. I then take up the proposals from SV that are in the vote, and the proposal from SV that has been distributed in the Chamber here today. The public school is the foundation of the welfare community. Much may suggest that this base is subject to pressure. The public school is a historic compromise between the labour movement and large parts of the interlayer in our society. As the social structures have changed and the middle class constitutes a significantly larger proportion of the population, this compromise is threatened. Internationally and with good soil in this country, the last 20 years have been marked by a period of market liberalism. An important objective of market liberalism has been to convert parts of the public sector into a market place. This has occurred at the same time as the differences in income in society have increased, as in particular. has led to large parts of the middle class having revenues that enable them to purchase their own well-being goods. If they choose this option, they break the foundation block, with the consequences it will have for those who have no other options and who depend on a free public school. It is this recognition that is the starting point for SV's school and education policy. For us, it is a fundamental goal to develop a school and a training offer that is such that those who can choose other solutions choose to call about public school. We are absolutely sure that the answers to what kind of school we need to develop to ensure broad upturn are not in the past. We are also absolutely sure that we need to pay even more attention to quality and organisational and working methods at school. Old structures and organisational models must be tested as to whether they are good tools for the achievement of the objectives of the curriculum, the general part and the professional syllabus. They reconstruct the student vision laid down in the curricula, take their student participation seriously and develop a democratic school, acquire the skills and competences of the students in the key subjects and subjects that we believe the school should provide. The emergence of a common public school as a meeting place for all children, from all environments, who challenge, and who make demands, and which is the common reference framework we all need, is so crucial and important for SV that we like to challenge most of the spoken truths in school. The evaluation of L97, in the same way as the evaluation of R 94, showed that we haven't gotten enough to change our attitude in school. There is still too much traditional classroom education, because many schools are unable to organise the training well based on the individual student’s abilities and assumptions. Adapted education, to give students challenges that are tailored to the individual, I think is the key to creating a school with engaged students who will ensure broad upliftment, and which will be the best bologna for the interludes failing the public school. We must therefore make visible the willingness to bet in public schools. There is a need for willingness to challenge the content, as SV tried in the election campaign in proposals to define the scope of training in the various subjects in the form of clear lessons, and not necessarily in the form of a certain number of hours that should be the same for all, as today's curricula do. But we also need to bet money, and take seriously the picture of the public school that parents are drawing around the country. It is likely that these parents will fail the public school only if it is unable to show that education and school are a field of activity with which it will also have to follow the money. Primary and secondary schools are municipal and county responsibilities. Therefore, it is the municipal economy that is most important in the fight for a new gift for the public school. We therefore strengthen the municipal economy as our commitment to the school. Our arrangement would have given almost NOK 6 billion more to the municipalities in relation to the government's arrangements. The agreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties is a step in the right direction, and then I hope that it may be the beginning the municipalities need to avoid cutting even in primary school and high school. The quality reform in higher education and, in particular, the setting of the Quality Committee, which we will discuss later, have a bottom-up idea of lifelong learning. There's a lot of groundwork in that work. Now it is unfortunate and strange that the government is proposing to cut down on the adult education of the information organisations, and it is strange that they choose to cut the distance learning system. These are important organisations that have developed educational provision, training provision, for the adult population. It is organisations that are in a tradition of public education and have an important role to play in lifelong learning. I wish we had avoided that kind of cut, at a time when we underlined very strongly lifelong learning, and where we organize and set up our education systems after that. The same is true of public schools. They are also in a popular information tradition, and it is important to take care of these slightly different educational provision, which represents an alternative to the ordinary primary and secondary schools. It is proposed to modify the educational administration, in particular the Educational Centre. This was joined by Stortinget in the revised budget. Now we give strong and clear leadership to the Government about what device we want at that education administration. We stress very strongly that we need to focus on the regional term. This means that the state must have a proper task with the teacher training institutions, that they are involved in this and have an important position as a participant, as a development actor, towards the individual school and towards the individual municipality. So we ask questions about whether it's right to call this a directorate. Associations are often linked to the concept of ‘directorate’. There's some centralist thinking about this, so we want to encourage the Government, the Department, the Council of State, to find a concept that communicates very well with the users, that is. the schools and municipalities. The majority also agree that we want a separate notice on prison education. A research-based evaluation of prison education has been carried out. It is ready in many areas, and it is partially initiated by the Stortinget. And it is important that we now have the opportunity to have a comprehensive and thorough debate on how prison education should be. This is why we ask the Ministry to return to the Grand Duchy with its own message defining the objectives, purpose and role of prison education in prisons. We have not set a deadline for such a message. I hope that it might come back in 2004, so that we get a thorough debate. We set up new prisons, and it is important that prisons have this kind of training provision. I regret that the majority have not been involved in increasing the framework for prison education this time. We create new prisons, and they are not given the opportunity to have a training offer in 2004. It's very unfortunate. Then I would like to commend – I see the time passes – for following the quality reform in higher education. There they have provided a budget that is consistent with what the institutions themselves have estimated. They deserve praise for taking this reform seriously. It is important precisely to give this signal to the institutions that this is going to be implemented, and that is what we are going to do. And we'll do that with this budget statement. The unfortunate thing is that it is the students themselves who partly finance this through the conversion of the study funding, which is clearly a wrong step – a wrong way to move.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e95	The representative Rolf Rikvam has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e100	SV says in the setting that they will give priority to the public school, and I have never doubted that either. At the same time, they say that the public should not be responsible for facilitating private services where a person has good public education. That's good. But I have a desire to get the position and line of SV prepared in relation to private schools. SV was involved in ensuring a funding law before the summer as, among other things, meant a grant rate to cover 100 pst. of its pension expenditure on a municipal basis and assumes that the Government has taken this into account in its budget. I then record that the SV in the committee is increasing its priority by 300 million. kr from private schools. Does this mean that SV has changed its attitude to the content of the Finance Act? And does that possibly mean that SV, like the Workers' Party, even though we have a small 'timeout' now, can think of changing the grant rate when it comes to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e109	That was a strange question, because last year the Workers' Party was part of saluting the budget with us, in the same way that we do this year. This year they don't, because they obviously get more in cooperation with the government parties. We agreed to support the proposal on the financing of private schools. But I don't think the Workers' Party fully understands what happened, and I think it's gross. What happened was that we had a financing order of 85 pst. of the national average. We thought it was very unfortunate, because it creates great differences within the municipalities as well. Then we supported the government in saying that it was the municipal average that was to be used, and based on the calculations we got from the department, that means that the government will save between 4 and 5 million. kr in relation to the arrangement originally laid there. So our attitude towards private schools is unchanged. We've made a sketch of how this is to be financed, with a lower grant than 85 pst. [[The President clubs.]] Then I'll be allowed to add...
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e118	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e121	The Socialist Left Party spokesman is trying to create some ideology around the school debate. That's good. But when you read a little bit of what they write in their comments, you might be tempted to think that SV is for both local democracy and freedom of choice, but at the same time you cut, as Vidar Bjørnstad pointed out, into incubators with over 184 million. kr. Is this the freedom of choice and self-determination for students and parents so well mentioned in the SV's programme? Is it only applicable to selecting SV's unit school? Or does it not see that freedom of choice also has to extend beyond what they themselves point to as an international trend, that in consultation between parents and students, one has the option to choose schools and alternative schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e126	I don't think Søren Fredrik Voie has read our budget position well enough, because we're actually cutting more. We don't cut 184 million. kr. We'll cut 286 million. kr. We'll cut 100 million. kr more than is clearly clear to the right. I think there's good reason to do this. We have a proposal on changes for 2003 to be considered later today. We have under-consumption in private schools of 185 million. kr. It is under-consumption in 2003 of 185 million. kr in relation to what we budgeted for. I feel reasonably confident that our budget line in relation to private schools, where we cut NOK 286 million, will be considerably closer to the actual situation at the end of 2004, than the one that Søren Fredrik Voie and the majority have stated. I feel reasonably safe about that. If we hit right, I'm not sure. But I think that the result we see at the end of 2004, will be pretty close to what we add up to. So it cut at 286 million. kr Søren Fredrik Voie can be on without fear.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e133	How can the representative Rikham be sure that the current year's under-use is not accompanied by a corresponding increase in application mass and equivalent increase in consumption in 2004? So we're going towards a new, extended law, which is also going to apply to high school, and there's every reason to believe that it will also lead to more applications, and therefore also to spending more money on this chapter. Is it the case that SV does not care about the 1999 Act, where Norway has confirmed through its own legislation that they subscribe to and ratify different rights and international conventions, including the one on human rights, which refers to the right of any person to education, which refers to free choice and also states that basic education should be available to all free of charge? Is it that you don't know about it, or is it that you don't care? Finally, SV says that they are involved in student funding and the framework conditions for the students. Why will SV not support the proposals of the Progress Party to extend the commitment framework for new buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e142	That's what I said, that we can't be sure how much consumption is going to be in 2004 for private schools. But I feel pretty sure, as I said before, that we're getting closer to what's going to be the result, than the majority of people add up to. Of course, we defend the possibility of setting up private schools, and we have committed ourselves to that through international agreements and international conventions. But there is no automation in that the state is going to finance it. That's the difference. Of course, setting up private schools should be allowed, and we're adding that. But there's no automatic in that it's the state that's going to finance these private schools. Our option is to have a variety of public services, free public services, which is the common meeting place – which I made an important point in my introduction – where all children go to primary school. That's our answer. It shall be possible to establish private solutions without full funding by the State more or less, with 100 pst. or 85 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e150	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e153	The working party is pleased to have managed a budgetary settlement with the government parties. I would like to thank the Committee and the budgetary partners for a clean process and for the patience of putting in place the latest adjustments. However, before I get into this committee's field of competence, I would nevertheless like to recall the more general basis for the conciliation. The Labour Party would have greater efforts to combat unemployment and give priority to joint tasks such as schooling, care for the elderly and hospitals over tax relief. That's what we've achieved, and that's how we've helped to reduce some of the right turn in Norwegian society. That's good. I believe that budgetary cooperation is good for the country, and I believe that it is also good for the reputation of the policy. The Workers' Party is committed to producing political results. Important issues such as employment, school, health and local economy have been taken into account. At the same time, settlement requires certain sacrifices. It's not always as easy, and some cuts have cost. However, we will not discharge the responsibility of the conciliation. It does not mean, however, that we are at peace with the debate in important areas of the Workers' Party, such as: the disagreement on the free establishment and financing of private schools. We will also follow closely the situation in areas that are not in our wishes for cuts, because it is in the Workers' Party's alternative budget that our policies and our main priorities come to light. The Workers' Party sees it as an important task to strengthen the public common school, provide children and young people with knowledge, and adapted training is an important objective. We believe that a good school requires a strengthening of both content and resources, and that a strengthening of students' learning outcomes, among other things. must be done by increasing the number of hours in primary school. This is why we are particularly pleased that the Workers' Party was able to obtain an extension of the school day at the small school stage as early as the fall of 2004. Developmental work within the school is a demanding task, where school leaders, teachers and students depend on trust and economics to succeed. One of the prerequisites, therefore, is to ensure that municipalities are provided with resources to carry out their school-related tasks. Therefore, we are also particularly pleased that through the agreement, we have got the government parties to give the municipalities over NOK 2 billion more in free income. This will help to prevent school drop-outs, more expensive school leave arrangements, cuts in teaching positions, etc. Through the conciliation, we have now shown political will and fulfilled some of the promises of the election campaign for a school bet. The working party has always been a school party, and we're going to continue that. We will therefore continue to work for better and more education. An increase in the number of hours by two hours for the first class and one hour per. week for steps 2 to 4 is the beginning. The hours shall include, inter alia: is used to strengthen the basic skills of students in reading, writing and billing. In addition, the number of hours spent in primary school should be further increased in 2005. We are also given the opportunity to discuss this in connection with the treatment of the follow-up to the Spring Quality Committee. An increase in the number of hours will also mean less need for the school leisure system and indirectly lower costs for parents. Our aim is that the school leisure system should be integrated more strongly into an extended school day. Here, there is a lot of positive work around the municipalities to have some teaching hours, to have physical activity in between – under the direction of the SFO – so some teaching hours and then teaching help in the SFO. The working party is committed to ensuring a good physical working environment for the students. In the budget agreement, we have ensured that the lending scheme for school buildings will be increased by DKK 1 billion in addition to the Government's proposal to advance the rehabilitation and maintenance of school buildings. Adult and continuing education is central to meeting the goal of lifelong learning and equal rights to education. In particular, it is important at a time of high unemployment and greater need for retraining and increased skills. The Labour Party has been and is critical that the Government for the second consecutive year uses the adult education sector as a balancing item, even though we know that the need is great, and that adults are not allowed to respect their rights. These are reductions we didn't want, and we'll come back to this at the next crossroads. Now it is said that the budget agreement increased the grant to the study federations by 17.5 million. kr in relation to the Government’s proposal. The Labour Party will primarily continue to maintain the objective of free teaching material for secondary school students and has set aside 100 million in its alternative budget. kr to the lending scheme under the authority of the county councils. We believe that such a system would better guarantee equal rights to education than a highly needs-tested scholarship scheme. The Workers' Party is pleased with the Government's appropriations for the university and higher education sectors, in particular in view of the quality reform. If it is to succeed, appropriations are necessary. However, the quality reform is based on two elements. One is the organisation and follow-up of the students by the institutions; the other is student funding and welfare. Here we have been less satisfied that students partly pay for the quality reform by cutting in student support and welfare services, such as student housing. On the other hand, within the economic framework proposed by the Government, which we have kept within, and with our main priorities of employment and school in our alternative budget, we did not find room to maintain the model and level of study support. We also did not get a pass to add another 30 million. kr to student housing from our alternative budget in the conciliation. Investing in research is crucial for society and our future. The Labour Party agrees that we need to maintain the ambitious objective of stepping up Norwegian research to at least the average OECD level during 2005 and believes that it will require both increased public funding and a special challenge to increase research efforts in industry. I assume that there is no resignation from the Government when there are uncertain variables and the great challenge of such a goal. The working party is pleased with the increase in research appropriations. At the same time, we have noted the preliminary experience of SkattenFUNN as an important tool to strengthen business opportunities for research and development. We have recorded in the statement that, unlike last year, the government parties are not involved in highlighting the importance of the direct commercial and user-driven programmes granted by the Ministry of Industry to the Research Council with an amount of NOK 1 billion. I hope this does not involve any change in reality. These means are important to complement the business sector where business itself does not rate, and encourage enterprises with little or no experience of R & D to build up the necessary skills. The Labour Party has taken responsibility for a 2004 government budget through a settlement with the government parties. We believe that overall this is the best result that could be achieved on the basis of our priorities in the alternative budget. At the same time, a settlement involves both advantages and disadvantages, which I have also tried to obtain in this post.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e189	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e192	Let me first be allowed to praise the Workers' Party for its soundness in the work of the Committee in the context of the budgetary agreement concluded in the Financial Committee. There is considerable agreement between the Labour Party and the government parties on the extension of the school day, but the starting points may be somewhat different. Of course, enlargement is well in line with the Right Programme and Policy, but the integration that the Workers' Party is warning, and that the representative of Bjørnstad mentioned, between the SFO and the school, is difficult for us to see. Does not the Workers' Party see a difference between the compulsory school offer and the voluntary SFO offer? How does the Workers' Party see that education and the SFO can be integrated into a day-to-day school where someone is going to be at most, and someone at all? Or is it that the Workers' Party actually thinks of the SFO as a mandatory offer to all?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e201	As I said in my post, we want a closer integration of the cooperation between the education part of the school and the voluntary school leisure system. We think it is important to create an overall offer — call it a school day, although school day should be strictly mentioned in the context of education. I also mentioned that there are many good examples of experimental schemes around municipalities that have done this, with good results. For example, I have recorded in Asker that a school leisure class has been set up in the middle of the day. So there you have divided the teaching, got a relationship with your parents and teachers, had some lessons, then a break of play and physical activity for an hour and then some lessons again. Such a model, I think, is the best way to take advantage of the opportunities you have, both within the school day that consists of teaching time and what is in the intention of the school leisure system. With regard to the latter, it is also the responsibility of municipalities today to offer school leave schemes to most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e210	The Workers' Party is the school's architect. They have little credibility in school content. They should be able to say straight out that when they want integration with the SFO, it is to get free SFO. Of course, we have respect for the fact that there is an agreement and that it has commitments in it. Nevertheless, we have proposed to increase the commitment mandates for the construction of new student housing, and this applies to projects that will be launched in 2005. Why can't the Workers' Party support us in order to speed up the construction of new student homes? So it is that it is also cut in the framework of this committee. Is there any particular information that allows the Workers' Party to be involved in vocational education when, at the bottom of the budget, we have received clear messages that the framework in the budget is already too scarce and does not take in the good search that has been made for this school offer? The working party is helping to cut almost $9 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e219	It is true that in the agreement there is a cut in student housing and vocational schools. As I said, in a deal, it'll be both a pleasure, and something that's more precious to go into. In the case of student housing, we had it inside our alternate budget. We believe that the construction of student housing is important in relation to the well-being of the students, precisely to support the second leg of the Quality Reform. With regard to the qualification of specialised schools, it means an adjustment of the number of places offered today. But we believe that within the overall framework of the vocational schools, it should be possible to fit in such a cut. Then I assume that the most important thing for us in the agreement has been to get an extension of the school day, for which we have had an impact. We have also received a further NOK 1 billion for the loan scheme for school construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e228	The struggle for primary education is the most important thing, says the Workers' Party. The working party goes for the government cut of $30 million. to centres of expertise for special education. Not enough, the Labour Party is in favour of a further 30 million cuts in the budget agreement in the Financial Committee. kr. But the Workers' Party does not touch the appropriations for the independent schools. The budget was under-exploited at 185.5 million. kr. in 2003. The result won't wait. Letters from the local FAU of state primary schools for hearing impaired persons show that important offers to vulnerable groups are at risk of closure, including: in the case of cut-offs in the offer of full-time and part-time accommodation for pupils at schools for hearing-impaired persons, and cuts in out-of-court services providing guidance in public schools. My question is: is this a new policy from the Workers' Party that goes beyond the very weakest and protects the resource strengths?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e237	The Workers' Party's attitude to private schools and the form of funding should be well known. As I said in my main post: that debate is not peace. But at least we have not gone as far as SV to ensure the financing of the private school law with the law that was passed before the summer, with which SV now obviously does not feel well, as they use funds from private schools to balance their own proposals. As far as centres of excellence are concerned, we are committed to ensuring a good special educational offer. We're assuming that the cut is to be done by efficiency and conversion. The conciliators also stress that services to users should be protected as much as possible, in particular with regard to the professional services provided by central centres of competence for different groups, such as: Deaf and blind. But we cannot rule out that it will have consequences for the service provision. The Labour Party will therefore follow the situation closely, and we reserve the right to come back into revision with the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e244	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e247	With the submission of the 2004 State Budget, the Government has once again presented a good budget for education and research. It is very gratifying that the quality reform of higher education is fully financed. The sector's budget is increasing by nearly DKK 1.4 billion, and ends at NOK 18.6 billion. In itself, this is a solid amount, which is to be translated into knowledge production and education in our universities and colleges in the next year. Economics and money are just one of several framework conditions that must be in place for quality reform to be the success we all want. Now the money is granted, in line with the wishes expressed by the university and higher education sectors themselves. Then it is up to students and employees to ensure that the quality reform is implemented so that the main objective of the reform is achieved and the students achieve good results in due time. In other words, the money that is currently being allocated to the sector does not in itself lead to successful reform. It is the people at universities and colleges who can create the good learning environments, the good research environments and the good results. Here, too, each student has a significant responsibility for his own success. On the part of the Government and the majority of the population, the success of our students and students is also well facilitated in other ways. through the development of good welfare and housing provision and good study funding. In the state budget, the escalation of our overall research effort continues. The funding for research is increased by billions, while the tax FUNN has already become a success and contributes strongly to the overall growth of research. Increased research also contributes directly to quality reform. Research-based education is a fundamental principle of all teaching at our higher education institutions. Increased research activity in the sector is more likely to do so, including: by up-to-date training with regard to professional development, national and international. Our national resources for research are allocated over the budgets of several departments, where the Ministry of Education and Research has a coordinating and coordinating role. The Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Economic Affairs is the most important contributors to the research programmes. The Ministry of Fisheries' research funding contributes greatly to the development of our marine industries and to the maintenance and consolidation of our position as one of the world's leading fishing nations and seafood producers. In marine research, Norway is currently world-leading and contributes greatly to the provision of the necessary knowledge and data to ensure sustainable resource management in our vast maritime areas. Although research appropriations are increasing, for this area, as elsewhere in society, there are results that count. Here I think we still have some possibilities for improvement, for example. in developing good performance targets for our research efforts. In this context, the Government has already announced a new research report, where the Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss Norwegian research and research policy in a broader context. Personally, I think it is gratifying that an overall committee recognizes the need for, and shares the desire, development and build-up of new skills and educational opportunities in North Norway, linked to the challenges and opportunities facing the continent with increased oil and gas activity in the north. I hope that both our universities and research communities address these challenges and help to find good and forward-looking solutions that create sustainable growth and development in the region. The budget of the year is adopted with the agreement of the Workers' Party and the Government Parties. I would like to commend the representatives of the Labour Party for orderly and straightforward negotiations, with the help of finding constructive and concerted solutions between the cooperating parties. This budgetary cooperation has ensured that the Government and the government parties' overall efforts on quality at all stages of our education system are continued and strengthened. In the past, I have underlined full funding for quality reform and increased research efforts as two key elements of this budget. In addition, quality development comes from initial training. The targeted and systematic work undertaken by the Government to bring up our education system from the average and mediocre to be among the best basic education in the European context is now being continued and reinforced, among others. by further strengthening the reading and writing training at the nursery. In addition, the Ministry has announced that the follow-up to the quality committee's submission and proposals will come to Stortinget during the spring. From the Right, we look forward to the further work on quality improvement throughout the education system and believe that this year's budget provides a good basis for taking a new step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e269	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e272	To the representative Voie’s contributions to research: research is important, but the objective of an average OECD level must be deemed to be dead. The development of new researchers through training seems to be difficult, because the cuts made in budgetary terms are fairly severe for schools. On the right, the Progress Party agrees that private schools should be financed at one price per year. student. Would it be completely impossible for the Right to ensure that public schools are financially protected by a similar model?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e279	As regards the OECD research target, it remains firm until the Storting adopts a different objective. This budget provides strong incentives to increase the training of researchers, including: through scholarships, increased scholarships for research training and post-doctoral positions. With regard to this, with the sub-prize financing of primary and secondary schools, which is one of the fantasies of the Advance Party, we have not been in favour of it by the Right, because we want the municipalities and county councils to have local freedom of action and to exercise local democracy. We also believe that by taking greater account of demographic developments — how the population is composed, where people move, and where people move, among others. have most young people and children who are applying for school — this element is also taken into account through the framework funding system that we currently have to finance municipalities and county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e286	Kristin Clemet has said on several occasions that she hopes that we will soon have the last swimming pool debate, that the discussion about the school must be about things other than empty swimming pool and bad economics, and that we need to talk more about the content of the school itself. It has always puzzled me that the Minister of Education has not seen the close relationship between resources invested in the school environment and the students' benefits from the learning environment. Empty swimming pools directly affect the quality of school contents. One study shows that about 50 pst. by the students cannot swim 200 meters, and 11 pst. Can't even swim 25 meters. But this might not be so strange when it turns out that 54 pst. of the fifth grade, do not receive swimming lessons at all, and of the pupils who receive them, half an hour or less per month. How will Norwegian school students learn to swim when they are not taught and the authorities are draining the basins for water? My question is therefore: Will the Right participate in the swimming pool debate? Is the right willing to pay for water in the pools and swimming lessons to the students, or will the right continue to stand on the sideline and ensure that the swimming skills of Norwegian students are gradually weakened?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e295	There are many things Norwegian schoolchildren need to learn. One of the basic and most important things for children to learn is reading and writing and calculating. I don't think Lena Jensen and the Socialist Left Party's efforts to improve the basic quality of school so far have been particularly prominent. There is only one element, such as swimming lessons, which can be organised in many ways, and in very alternative ways, too, regardless of whether you have a swimming pool or not, which is also done in the school communities. So if SV wants to practice the freedom of action and the local democracy that is so hotly talked about in their programmes, you can also get swimming lessons in the individual school community. Otherwise, no one is able to demonstrate a clear link between quality in school and the framework conditions that apply to the number of buildings, how fine the buildings are, or how many swimming pools you would have to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e302	The representative Voie is talking about a historical commitment to higher education. To the Stoltenberg Government's proposal that the entire grant share of the study funding should be made depending on the given weights, the Right, together with the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, says the following: ‘It is, in the view of these members, too risky to the students and to take from the students the basic security of the current grant scheme. It will also be an unwanted financial penalty for students engaged in student social activities and student democracy.’ How does the representative Voie Højres explain the complete turnaround in this matter? And another question: is it good education policy to weaken students' financial security when students' demands are increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e314	Norway has a very good study funding. As far as the funding mechanism for foreign students is concerned, it is actually at the top of the world, one of the best in the world. As far as this is concerned with the possibility for students to participate in social activities and to participate in other student activities, there are, of course, exceptions in any system that make this possible without compromising the basic funding principles included in the grant scheme. After the quotation that was now referred to from Kschillaa was formulated, the quality reform in higher education has not only been implemented, but it is also fully funded, which is a significantly greater bet on the students and the students' ability to complete their studies than just to grant grants and loans. But it's also going to add up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e321	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e324	I'll do what I can in 10 minutes. The Progress Party shall provide an alternative budget within this framework area. The frame is gross 40 billion kroner. Within this framework, the Progress Party in a priority whole has moved by well over 500 million. kr., i.e. 1 1⁄4 pst. We have done this to underline that it is fully possible to make both price and content changes with clear political content and to make adjustments – political placing where necessary – within the framework budget. The Progress Party has noted with interest that the budget parties have plasticated for 39 million. kr. The progress batch has noticed that it is patched on student homes, the patch on landlines and the patch on the safety training for fishermen. This is a clear, necessary and understandable political patching. At the same time, in the opinion of the Progress Party, the budget parties in this plastic exercise have introduced new cuts in some areas, causing further political damage: grants to the University and Higher Education Council are cut, and the allocation to technical vocational schools – already too small from the Government – has been further cut to nearly 9 million. kr. In the budgetary position, the Progress Party, together with its general comments, has also inserted a full specification and related comments from the alternative budget in the Financial Committee. One of the main actions of the Progress Party is the external budget. On the foreign budget, we place expenditure that is currently in the ordinary state budget, but for things used abroad or purchased from abroad. For example, there is a quota for the EU Framework Programme for Research with a total of 570 million. kr. Another example is research equipment and ICT equipment for primary and secondary schools, where the Progress Party proposes 100 million, respectively. and 160 million. kr. The principle of foreign budgets is, of course, too far accepted by the majority of Storting through the ‘patient bridge’ – the purchase of hospital facilities abroad. Of course, the principle can be applied in other important areas if the majority will. The external budget for the education sector is likely to come, although the will is still absent. Within the budgetary framework, the Progress Party has presented an alternative budget proposal and a number of framework-independent proposals, which I would like to address in this regard. We are also going to vote against the majority vote in the final vote. The Progress Party is opposed to the proposal for a school directorate, both because it's smuggled in the back, because we're skeptical about the Learning Centre, and because we don't want a mix of administration and approval/supervisory. The Progress Party proposes to give NOKUT responsibility for the recognition and supervision of the entire education sector, and we put money into it. The Progress Party also makes use of money to create its own independent and independent school representative in order to strengthen the legal certainty of users. The size has recently treated St.meld. No 33 on the resource situation in initial training. I refer to our proposals and our comments on major system changes in Norwegian school. Calling for more resources alone becomes a one-dimensional and wrong focus. Part of the proposal of the Progress Party on System Changes is also promoted in this budgetary position. The progress party will have an extended school day. Our priority has been this time an extra math class in the 5th and 6th grade from the fall of 2004 – an extra and necessary boost for pupils who have finished the small school stage. Through a proposal from the Progress Party in the Municipal Committee, we have tried to restore the camp school system on which the government parties agreed with the Progress Party in the budget agreement last year, an agreement they later broke in the context of the municipal proposition in June 2003. The party of progress will continue to have all the state funds that go to the camp schools, both those that go to school and those that are used to pay for students staying at camp schools. We continue to regret that the government parties are breaking what we regard as a binding agreement from the 2003 budget. Within the budgetary framework, the Progress Party has prioritised further equality between pupils in private and public schools. The share of operating grants is increased to 87 pst, respectively. and 77 pst. from the autumn of 2004. The Progress Party goes further – The Progress Party makes a capital grant to private schools and promotes its own system proposal on capital grants to private schools from 2005. We note that the government parties are voting against this proposal, but are very much talking about the same in the Sem Declaration. The Progress Party has, of course, passed on the full budget to Hookide Vocational School and the support to United World College. Here, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have been concerned with the same change in course. The government's course here has not been very tough. Late in the budgetary process, the Progress Party has become aware that it is obviously budgeted too little. 251 Vocational education. There is a joyful increase in the number of applicants, an increase that was clearly desired by the entire Committee when the Committee considered Ot.prp in April this year. No 32 for 2002-2003 on the Law on Vocational Education. Here you can use the too low frame management option. The Progress Party has found room for an increase of 29 million. kr. However, it goes from wrong to worse when the Workers' Party, together with the government parties, moves funds from vocational education to higher education institutions and scholarships. The Progress Party underlines that full funding for the quality reform is based on three pillars: One is the financing of operational resources for the good follow-up of students and a qualitatively sound research activity at the institutes of universities and the departments of higher education. The second pillar is construction – construction and maintenance. That is what the Progress Party believes is too small and too poorly mentioned and taken care of. Therefore, the Progress Party also promotes proposals for a separate case on building maintenance in the university and higher education sectors, which will include proposals on museum construction, rehabilitation, normal maintenance and new buildings. That is why the Progress Party has also earmarked money for two special construction projects at the University of Oslo and the University of Bergen, respectively, and further 10 million. kr for priority construction projects at state universities. For the same reason, we've done $5 million. kr for immediate maintenance at Norway's agricultural high school. The third pillar of the quality reform is the funding arrangements for the students. The Progress Party notes that it is the student economy that is used to balance funds added to the quality reform. Here is the concrete proposal from the Government and the budgetary partner, in which the Progress Party disagrees, and where the Progress Party prioritises other ways and with better results for the students. The Progress Party increases the budget for the construction of student housing, as opposed to the majority of the budget, which maintains the Government's original cut of 30 million. kr. Well, it is important to increase the commitment mandate for 2004, to increase the framework for launching new projects. We're increasing it by 50 million. kr. In the study funding scheme, the Progress Party makes clear changes. We are satisfied with the conversion of the rules for studying abroad, a change that results in the free choice of subjects and countries. But the Progress Party will maintain the fee grant scheme, scholarships for school money abroad. In this way, the Progress Party will ensure the free choice of students. The government's proposal to replace scholarships with a combination of loans and scholarships believes that the Progress Party will be able to move towards low-cost countries and go at the expense of quality of high international standards. The Progress Party will provide a better opportunity for loans in the Staten Loan Fund for school money at Norwegian private educational institutions. Here the limit today is NOK 20 000. For example, it covers: only half of the school money at the first year of study for most studies at BI. The progress point has put in 10 million. kr to an extension of such a scheme. In particular, the Progress Party shall contribute funds to an indexation of the cost standard for students from 1 May 2004. It is important that this principle is put in place, so that students too are automatically adjusted to their rates. The party of progress increases the allocation to private colleges. It's $60 million worth of progress. kr extra – 30 mill. kr earmarked for research, 15 million. DKK for the basic appropriation and 13 million. kr for the teaching component. In this respect, we assume that the private colleges which can detect errors in the calculation basis, those who have applied for extension or for grants for new studies, and who have been refused, will be taken care of. In the budget document, it is now under the heading. 282 Private higher education is a review of the basic component, i.e. one of the three components on which the new funding system is based. The Ministry has previously announced that it will phase out basic grants above 60 p.m. in the 2005 budget. The government parties will dampen this zeal, and it supports the Progress Party. There is reason to point out that the same conduct is not notified to state universities. For the Progress Party, it is important to point out that the funding system and the use of the system must be non-discriminatory in higher education, regardless of ownership. According to the specification drawn up by the Ministry of Budgetary Government Assistance for State Higher Education in 2004, there is no – I repeat none – of the state higher education institutions that have basic grants of 60 pst. or lower. All are higher, and partly significantly higher. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that the government parties in the Church, Education and Research Committee are dampening the ministry's expressed desire to cut government subsidies to private universities and to cover state universities. In the draft budget of the Progress Party, it is set at 2 million. to develop a better model funding tool for private higher education. Finally, I can say that within the framework we have also found space of 30 million. kr in additional research effort allocated by the Research Fund for the development of projects that can promote excellent research combined with innovation and in multidisciplinary combination.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e385	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e390	We are discussing budgets, but not all matters that necessarily require money – they require attention. For the Workers' Party, gender equality, education and research are important. The Ministry is following up gender equality measures, even if we wish that efforts were somewhat stronger. The university and higher education sectors shall integrate equality into all their activities. The Research Council has this as a task. However, the Progress Party is consistently out of all notes where the word ‘ equality’ occurs. Can Sortevik give us a brief reason why equality is a foreign word in the vocabulary of the Progress Party? And if – a theoretical question maybe – the Progress Party had sufficient influence, would they eliminate equality as a task for the Department, universities, colleges and the Research Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e396	This must be in line with the principle that attack is the best defence. We have to take the test for what it is, and say briefly that we have full confidence in the institutions themselves, that in their work of distributing both funds and assessing the rise and advancement, they focus on the quality of the person, not on gender.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e401	I would like to follow up on the last thing that was said by the Progress Party, where they are talking about faith, and then we come to faith in local democracy and the municipalities around Norway. I thought I would take the trouble to go to the source, what the Progress Party really thinks about that matter, and then I went to the contract of the Progress Party with the voters, namely their action plan, where it, among other things. read: ‘The Party of Foreign Ministers will strengthen municipal autonomy. Municipalities must be able to control their own revenue and expenditure, and organise their offers in the way they believe that the population benefits the most.» Furthermore, it is stated that: ‘The party will primarily abolish earmarked subsidies from the State.’ The question is, how does this contract compare with the voters I quoted with the party's attitude to grants for camp school stays? Is the Action Programme of the Progress Party a document to which the Progress Party relates only when appropriate and does the representative Sortevik agree that this is a breach of contract with the electorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e416	Here was a question of breach of contract. I feel quite certain that the electorate of the Advance Party has brought with it the large dividing lines between the Advance Party and other parties, among other things. the clear distinction between how we finance Norwegian school, that, in our view, there should be funds that come directly from the state and that are money that follows the individual student. In fact, I believe that the majority of those who vote in the Advancement Party have got that. When we talk about a breach of contract, we have a fresher breach of contract to deal with, namely in connection with the agreement that was concluded on the budget for the year that is now ending. It was actually a point in the agreement with the government parties that we were going to reintroduce the arrangement that all the government grants to this particular school form were to be earmarked. It lasted exactly six months. It kept to the municipal proposition. Then the government parties found other partners, and then there was another agreement and a breach of ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e423	It is not easy to deal with the Progress Party, because the priorities vary from year to year. But in one area they are at least fairly clear, and it was also clear now that Blackevik: they must have a system change, it is important for them. The system changes consist, inter alia, of: in order to give priority to private schools — equal opportunities in economics — primary schools, secondary schools, colleges, etc. It is left in the whole structure of the Progress Party. I assume that the purpose of this change in systems is to weaken the public education system, that it's part of the argument to do this. I'll venture the claim that the fact that we've had a good and strong public school has been the most important basis for creating cohesion between groups in our society after the war. Then the question becomes to Sortevik and to the Advance Party: When we look at which voters support this party, does Sortevik and the Advance Party feel that they are in line with them, when the goal is to build up the public school and create greater differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e428	The representative Reikvam is very wrong. Our goal is neither to build up nor to weaken the public school. Our goal is that parents and students should be free to make a choice of their own, regardless of what the representative of SV wants them to choose, and regardless of what an alternating majority of local municipal councillors want parents and students in each municipality to be allowed to choose. We don't see a revolution in the school structure if we compare in a better way also the economic conditions that make the real choice become better. We are fundamentally concerned with creating better quality, including in public schools. We want many public schools for many years, and many students in public schools. We are concerned with the content of public schools – much more concerned with the content than with the one-dimensional shelf on more resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e433	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e436	With the budget decision we are receiving today, the Government receives support for its main priorities: implementation of the quality reform in higher education, increased investment in research, more funding for quality development in primary school and a church budget prioritising the baptismal education of the Church. In the Christian People's Party we are satisfied with this result and pleased with the support we have received in these matters. The budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party has led to a thorough discussion within the Committee, and our cooperation partners should be commended for constructive cooperation. I want to use this post to point out three issues in the setting that we in the Christian People's Party believe are important political priorities that point forward. Other representatives of the Christian People's Party will take care of the church budget. Through the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party, work is continuing on extending the number of hours spent in small schools. In the Sem statement, the cooperation parties say they want such an extension. We believe that this can give better time and calmness to work with important learning goals in initial training. It is especially important to bring out reading and writing training, but also mathematics and physical education. At the bottom is the emphasis on providing students with social and cultural competences, so that students can develop in a holistic way. In the Christian People's Party, however, we are so delighted that we believe that more lessons do not automatically improve learning outcomes. There is little research coverage to claim that several hours will automatically produce better results. But more hours can provide a better learning environment with less stress, with emphasis on working habits and effective learning. This is important for learning later in school. In the Christian People's Party we will also reject a full-day school model where education and SFO are integrated. The SFO shall continue to be voluntary and should be seen as an offer for the organised supervision of children before and after school until parents can take this supervision themselves. The extension of the school day reduces the need for the long opening time in the SFO, and parental payments can be kept low. The second important political message in this position is the broad consensus that youth is facing specific challenges and that efforts towards youth must be stepped up. It is Christian People's Party especially pleased with. We need such a broad political consensus to get the necessary attention and political pressure for youth. There is a danger that resources and attention may go to other school steps when considering the quality committee’s proposals. It does not want a Christian People's Party. Today, in the Christian People's Party, we challenge our partners and other parties to clarify whether they will join in and renew their youth. The evaluation of Reform 97 says that youth is the forgotten school stage, and it shows that youth has major educational challenges. Much of the activity is influenced by dissemination education, while the more student learning modes are not used well enough. This is probably due to the fact that school start-ups for 6 year olds and the small school stage were given the most attention in the introduction of Reform 97. If we are to be able to renew the learning work in the youth and give the students new motivation for learning, we need to bet on the teachers and development measures over time. It is therefore an important political signal when the majority calls on the Ministry to give particular priority to youth in the distribution of funds, inter alia. to develop skills for teachers, digital competence programmes and in the selection of new demonstration schools. In this way, we target efforts in the budget against continuing training of young people’s teachers, broadband and IT efforts for high school and demonstration schools for the young. I would ask the Council of State to confirm that she will make such a priority of youth. Only targeted work on management, working methods and learning objectives can give rise to innovation. The necessary organisational and structural changes will be brought back to the Christian People's Party when the quality committee's proposals are discussed. The third and last area I want to highlight is the importance of adapted training. The evaluation of Reform 97 shows that initial training is insufficiently able to facilitate training on the basis of the different assumptions, interests and needs of the students. Unfortunately, the school contributes to the reproduction of inequalities and the evaluation concludes that the lack of adapted training is a major cause of the wide differences. If students are to get good learning outcomes, they have to experience success in school. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that the individual student should continue to have organized education. Students with special needs must continue to be required to receive organised training. The budget we are adopting today provides increased resources for higher education, research and quality development in primary education. However, the political message from the Christian People's Party is that we are now faced with a situation in which basic education again – and the youth in particular – requires our attention and resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e453	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e456	The representative Lyngstad has well described the budget agreement's commitment to the primary school for the children in 1–4. class. The Christian People's Party has previously described the Workers' Party's ideas of extended school day as a socialist airlock and as old-fashioned. The government party's skepticism of extending the school day has been justified by the belief that a longer school day steals important time from the family. We in the Workers' Party are pleased with the agreement, where, among other things, The Christian People's Party has ensured an increase in the hours of elementary school. But I'm not sure about Lilletun's statement, considering the committee members' support for increasing the hour in 2005. So my question to the Christian People's Party is this: Is it so that the Christian People's Party has reversed its view on the extended school day, and can the Workers' Party be assured of further support from the Christian People's Party in the work on an ongoing increase in the number of hours?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e463	The Christian People's Party has always been open to expand the hour. That is why we have also written it in the Sem Declaration. But it is true that the Christian People's Party disagrees with the Workers' Party in the strong integration between school education and the SFO offer. That's the whole-day school model that the Workers' Party has outlined, we're fundamentally in disagreement with, because we don't want to make SFO a mandatory offer. If one integrates the SFO more strongly in teaching, the consequence will be that the SFO becomes mandatory. We say no to that. We want a clear distinction between what is mandatory and what is to be a voluntary offer. So we think it's possible to fill the SFO with good deals for those who need organized supervision that parents themselves can't give, for example. while they're at work. There we think there are opportunities to organise good action in terms of both cultural services, cultural school activities, sports activities, etc. This is what we want to stimulate, but it has to be voluntary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e470	I noticed that the main content of the representative Lyngstad's articles was about school and not about church policy. You might have expected that to happen. But it may be related to the fact that the representatives of the Christian People's Party have ended this in the press today. In our country, for example, there is an opinion from the representative Lyngstad, who is a pure repetition of previous years’ practice, a practice that can easily be seen as a lack of respect for the work and perceptions of others, about some political opponents as less equivalent partners than others – i.e. a pure orwell production. Baptism training cut, total 1,1 pst. cut in the total appropriations in the area, is what proceeds from this statement. That's right: the progress party has cut down on baptismal training. But why kiss the Christian People's Party c. 1⁄2 pst. on this chapter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e478	I said in my speech that other representatives from the Christian People's Party would come back to church policy. Had the Christian People's Party had the opportunity to take a line on the Advancement Party, I can reassure the representative Evje that it would have been about the Church Policy of the Advancement Party. Because it's very eye-catching, it's that the Progress Party presents itself as a credible and committed defender of promoting the Church's work. And then it's cut. It is said no to baptismal training, it is said that the Church must streamline its operations, that churches must be closed down, that the services must be merged. It is this message to the Norwegian Church that the Progress Party presents. I think it is worth it for church-interested people to notice the profile of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e485	The TV programme entitled ‘On the subject of child mobility to be built in the country’ has created a debate. There has been criticism of both the angle and the focus. However, this TV programme raises some important questions about key challenges and principles we face. The programme shows the blooming of Christian sectarian schools, the blooming of schools with education «from cradle to grave»: kindergarten, primary school, secondary education, higher education, etc. This splits small settlements. It is important to have freedom of belief, and building up under the possibility of different views of life is very important. The parents’ right to choose for their children is important and a principle that must be upheld. But my question to the Christian People's Party is: When you see this blossoming, and when you see the challenges you face, are there any special measures you have to take to enable these children to be affected by society outside?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e492	This line became a little difficult for me. On the one hand, the representative says that SV wants to defend freedom of belief and parental rights. On the other hand, she wants to limit parental rights. So this became a very difficult problem. For the Christian People's Party, parental rights are fundamental. We believe that when it comes to the choice of children, parents must have the decisive word. This has also been fundamental in relation to the post-school concept. We want to ensure the quality of the freshness school by providing the same level of education. My problem here is that SV does not draw up the boundaries in relation to fundamental rights such as freedom of belief and parental rights, but that they are asking us in the Christian People's Party to do so. I feel that SV is in conflict with their own principles if they believe that freedom of belief and parental rights are essential.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e499	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e502	The Centre Party does not promote its own draft budget under Framework Section 17. We refer to our overall alternative budget, which was voted down, and where the 17 framework area was strengthened by about 330 million. in addition to the agreed framework. We will vote against the three budget proposals in the vote. We believe that the framework of the budgetary agreement is not adequate to address the challenges in the field of education. The government must be commended for the full financing of the quality reform. This means that the prerequisites for this to become a quality reform, and not just a reform, are present. It will be exciting to follow the way universities and higher education institutions further develop their places of study into attractive learning and research venues. But there are other areas in the budget where the Central Party is much less satisfied and responds to the device. This applies, inter alia, to: educational institutions located a little side by side with the traditional training courses. In the case of the study federations, distance learning and higher education institutions, which, under the budgetary agreement, still have to carry a large cut, which has implications for the 2004 offer. Support for the study federations has been greatly reduced over several years, and the Centre Party believes that the current reduction is an additional estimate of the efforts of non-governmental organisations when it contributes, among other things. on public education and democratic training. The study federations represent an important component of the implementation of the Competence Reform and operate a very cost-effective form of adult training. The reduction in support for higher education institutions is difficult to understand in the light of the treatment of the law on higher education about a year ago, where the majority of the committees stressed that government funding had to follow the growth of students and costs and provide a predictable framework. I believe it is timely to ask if the Christian People's Party and the Left have slept when the Government has worked on the education budget. United World College is another example of a school outside the system, based on values such as solidarity, peacemaking and humanitarian work. Now it was saved in the budget agreement, but the government's budget proposal does well tell about its priorities. I hope that the Council of State today can also say something about what contacts the Government has had with the governments of the other Nordic countries in this matter. Some cuts are partially corrected in some of the areas that the Central Party actually prioritised in its alternative budget. I record that at least the Christian People's Party is happy. Then I don't think about Lilletun, but I think about the representative Lyngstad, who in the newspaper last night said he's happy that the Christian People's Party has had a positive impact on the 12 million people's colleges. kr extra in the contract, i.e. that the cut has reached 12 million. kr less. It seems a little strange that one of the government's parties is cheering for having partially fixed a cut they themselves have made. We have a church budget, too. The central party believes that the Government is right to ensure that the funds for baptismal training receive a good and solid start and that the Government follows up the Storting treatment of the ‘Truss training in a new time’. At the same time, however, many in the Church are responding to the fact that the strengthening of the budget of the Joint Councils from the revised budget was not carried forward in 2004 and that the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party entailed a further cut of 5 million. kr to the Councils. Even with a strengthening of the local economy as provided for in the budget agreement, we know that many joint councils have to make savings in the context of the Church's activities locally. The Central Party notes that the economic challenges that the Church meeting last year pointed out that the congregations were facing, and that both the Council of State and the Grand Council have been made aware of in many respects, are in fact continuing in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e519	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e522	In the nomination of the Education Committee, the Special Note of the Centre Party states: ‘This member shall not be able to submit a draft budget in charge of framework 17 within the limits adopted.’;» So it's like all the other political parties that are represented in the committee have been dealing with a reality and a framework that the Center Party has not done. There are quite a number of pious wants of the Center Party in the setting, but the party does not relate to the framework and the political and economic reality, as all of us do. I'd like to ask the representative of Skjälaa why that's happening. Then there's other things in the setting. The Central Party has embarked on a line in which they consistently and invariably support the comments and policies of the Left Party. Is it the case that the representative of the Skjälaa is comfortable not to promote his own school policy, but almost slavishly clinging to the Socialist Left Party and defending a socialist school policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e534	When it comes to dealing with the framework or not, I would just encourage the representative Eriksen to read the Central Party's alternative budget, where we actually take in more money and can spend more money. It's about a device where we disagree with the Government's arrangement. With regard to the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, we're probably in common about one thing, that we want to strengthen the public school. But Ine Marie Eriksen must have followed very poorly in the class if she does not know that there are major differences between the politics of the Centre Party and the SV. Let's go, for example. do not apply to any government management in relation to the establishment of minimum standards for schools, etc., as SV does. In addition, it is true that SV has relied on some comments made by the Central Party in connection with this budgetary work. So both the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party find each other in many areas of the school debate. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e541	Now let's see what it looks like.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e544	I wish I had the same opinion as Ine Marie Eriksen, that the Senterpartie largely joins SV. It's not my perception of reality, even if I wish it were. What I really want to challenge the Center Party is private schools, especially colleges. We have a system where the state finances part of the private colleges, which are parallel to the public educational institutions. Let me give you an example: we have some private teacher training institutions that get almost 100 pst. grants from the State to conduct this training. At the same time, we have vacancies at our public educational institutions. This is because it is a bad resource usage, a very bad resource usage. So my question to the Skjälaa is: does he feel comfortable with us running doubles and using public funds this way? Could he possibly agree on a proposal from the SV to create a financing scheme where the State agrees with the institutions to finance a certain number of sites? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e553	You just have to keep talking, but time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e557	But they're listening.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e562	First to Ine Marie Eriksen: If we had agreed on SV's policy, we would have supported SV's framework proposal. So we're not going to do that. One of the reasons is, for example: the large cuts in relation to private schools, for which we could not go in. That's the one. Then to Rolf Rikvam. With regard to higher education and private institutions, I believe it is important that private educational institutions have a predictable framework. I'm not a stranger to the fact that the private educational institutions can go in another way and do a public mission. But I have not seen any suggestion from SV about this yet. I think there are many who are interested in rethinking how one can secure private institutions as well, and what role they should play in the overall education system in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e574	Sitting in a committee with the Center Party feels like sitting on the city board in Oslo together with RV. It was like when they were represented on the Stortinget, and always made a budget out of RV's alternative state budget, how much it would give Oslo, and then they made the Oslo budget on the basis of it. But it wasn't just that, I also have a question. In the introduction to the comments of the Centre Party, there is a lot of fine writing about the school and the community that the Left can agree with. We've also been together to fight for small schools, but maybe not always as hard as the Center Party has. That's why I have a question for Skjälaa to see if we could perhaps approach a consensus in the area of small schools. My question is, can schools get too small? Is this about the fact that there can be too little environment, too few students and too many girls compared to boys? How does it feel to be bullied at a school where you're alone, or to have a bad teacher at a school where there's only one?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e581	I think it's great that the representative Trine Skei Grande notes that the Central Party wants to spend more on education than the Left and the other government parties do. So to the question of whether schools can get too small. Yeah, that's possible. I'm not a professional in the field. I'm not a pedagogue, and I'm not the one to go in and decide if a school is too small to have a right to exist. But what the Center Party is very concerned about is that schools should not become a balancing item in budgetary context around the municipalities. If schools first have to go down, that decision has to be based on a technical assessment of whether it is good that this school is where it is. It must be a question of professional matters if you choose to go to school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e588	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e591	The left is well-satisfied with the main lines of the commitment to education and research under the 2004 budget. Quality reform in higher education is fully funded, and research is reinforced by DKK 1.1 billion. Further emphasis has been placed on quality development in initial training. The Left places education and research at the forefront of society’s tasks, as shown by the Government in this budget. In the left we say that we want to release the school. We want a diversity in school. All students are good at something, and the experience of mastering is the key to learning. To achieve that, we need to give trust, responsibility and freedom to the teacher. More responsibility and more freedom also mean that it is allowed to impose requirements on teachers, on local politicians, on requirements for parents and on requirements for students – knowledge requirements. In the 2004 government budget proposal, there was an increase of DKK 3.75 billion for municipalities. That the budget agreement with the Workers' Party gave an extra SEK 2.2 billion was not met with major protests from the Left. The local economy has been strengthened this autumn more than a year earlier, and it will benefit schools too. Left rates at school, and we want local freedom to organize the school in a way that best suits each municipality. Higher education is experiencing a number of important challenges in this autumn. Quality reform will be fully financed. The funds shall be used to introduce new and more permanent courses of study, new degree structures and to improve the quality of education. The total budget for the 2004 quality reform is 1 144 million. kr. With this allocation, the quality reform is fully financed, in line with the Stortingen assumptions. The government is also adding up to 200 new scholarship positions. The Cultural Party Left was very proud when the Academy of Art in Oslo could open exactly a week ago. This co-location will help to spread good ideas and provide new opportunities for all the different types of art. At the same time, I am proud that we are now starting to work on construction step 2 and that we have comments on it in the committee. The Committee also provides for an additional grant to the programme of grants for artistic development of 1 million. kr. We in the Left are very pleased that we can find room for this increase that can help solve the challenges the scholarship programme faces on the artistic side. This kind of commitment to culture is both educational policy and good cultural policy. The Committee also expresses the wish to increase the number of grantees in order to ensure the programme's breadth. There's a lot of exciting happening in this area, including the cooperation that the Norwegian Opera has to establish ballet classes in the youth class in the Oslo Schools. The Norwegian school system has an additional challenge for young artists who have to start their careers early. The research was reinforced by NOK 1.1 billion. We also increase the allocation of long-term basic research through the Norwegian Research Council. Research provides a good basis for value creation and new jobs. The Norwegian research environment must be given the opportunity to develop knowledge across a broad register, both through free basic research and through research directly relevant to future business and value creation. The roadmap for Norway’s overall research effort to the average level of at least OECD countries needs to be achieved. Government's commitment to basic research on the one hand, and SkattenFUNN, which stimulates private research, on the other hand, contributes to a balanced and good escalation in the research environment in Norway. Next year's budget is a good budget, with increased emphasis on knowledge. It is a budget that shows that the Government prioritizes the development of knowledge, and it is a budget with which the Left is well pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e619	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e622	It must be nice to be the Council of State from the Right and get such nice calls from the Left, without any critical comments to anything. I am here with the latest research statistics from NCI, the figures for 2001 and 2002. We don't know the 2003 figures. However, these statistics show that from 2001 to 2002, there was some increase in research efforts in Norway. In 2001, we used 1.6 pst. of gross domestic product for research purposes. In 2002, we used 1.67 pst. for research. These are numbers from the NIFU that came now in December. Then there'll be a certain increase this year of $1 billion, well and well, and that's good. But then Trine Skei Grande says that the escalation plan must be achieved. That means that in 2005, if we're going up to OECD level, we're going to have to spend between $3 and $4 billion more on government funds. Is the Left ready to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e629	It is nice that the committee leader considers good calls from the left as a quality in itself. I can put that all the way back. Otherwise, the government has made a lot of moves that have proved to be successes, such as: TAX FIND. As far as research priorities are concerned, the Left is always ready to take on the major research priorities. Then you're asked what framework the economy gives us to make priorities for next year, but we're ready to take that promise, if we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e636	The representative of Trine Skei Grande says she is well pleased with the budget and places a lot of emphasis on talking a lot about higher education and research etc. What she's not talking about is the Left as well as the Party of Voluntary Laws and Organisations, etc. I wonder how the representative can be so satisfied with the budget when it is drastically cut in support of the study federations, among other things, which means so much to the team business around our country, to the distance education etc. If the representative could take some self-criticism and say that everything in the budget was not as good, I would have thought it would have been okay, but she could not be so very pleased with a device that I suppose would hit the Left-Choosers – if they are out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e644	Step Skei Grande – at least it's a Left Selector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e647	I can also admit that not everything is as good, but I figured that there was an opportunity to get back to it in the line change. The study federations are very close to the Left's heart, that's clear. But I think there's also a need to do something about the whole way we organize the studios. I also think that there needs to be a difference between those who are engaged in pure cultural communication and those who are engaged in pure adult education. And then there's also someone in the middle of it. But it's important to look at what's pure cultural communication. Maybe it would have been seen as more pure cultural dissemination than a kind of adult education. I think it's a challenge for us to review the way the study federations receive grants, the way we prioritise them, the way we guarantee them. Perhaps it is important cultural policy things that should be taken into account, and not just education policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e654	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e657	The historical budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Labour Party has prevented a further right-wing triangle of Norwegian policy. I'm glad. Many of the unsocial cuts contained in the government's original draft budget were removed, but not all. In the negotiations we had to give and take. That's the way to make a settlement. As a representative of the northern part of the country, there are some things I am particularly pleased with that the Workers' Party has had an impact on. Fishermen are the profession in which most accidents occur per year. years. While fishing has always been at high risk of life and health, following the introduction of a safety course for fishermen, the number of accidents has fallen significantly. The size decided in 1985 to establish a State-funded safety training for fishermen, with the aim that everyone should have the same training opportunity, irrespective of their place of residence and their economy. The bet has helped. The death tolls have flattened out, but still the number of casualties is too high. Training for fishermen must be said to be the most effective measure of harm and accident prevention in the fishing industry. It therefore seems strange that the Government would initially only grant money to wind up the scheme. The Labour Party is pleased that, through the budgetary agreement with the Government, we have been involved in ensuring the provision of safety training for fishermen until next year. In the government's original budget, it was set at 3.7 million. kr for the closure of the training offer. We are very pleased that the Workers' Party's demand to increase the funding by 3 million. kr has been completed so that 6,7 million have now been allocated. SEK for the training. The working party has noticed the strong reactions of an industry that had failed as it became known that only 3 million would be granted. SEK for the training. The budgetary agreement also provides for agreement between the Workers’ Party and the Government Parties on the admission of training centres to participate in initial training, as previously done in the refresher courses, as from the financial year 2004. But then it's also the end of the consensus. An overall fishing industry has voiced disappointment at the fact that government batches have still not given up the desire for fishermen alone to provide special and vessel-dependent training. It is not difficult to predict that this matter will be fought in future budgets. So to the university and higher education sector. The Workers' Party welcomes the establishment of 15 new places at the medical school at the University of Tromsø. The University has great significance for higher education, research and business life in North Norway, while there is great undercoverage of doctors throughout the District of Norway. Therefore, medical study places previously purchased by universities from abroad can now be offered in Tromsø and at NTNU, which increase the admission of medical students by 20 places. Increasing the number of medical students is the best guarantee to increase medical coverage across the country. This is very good. I would also like to point out the steps that are being taken to renovate the state colleges. In particular, the co-location of the University of Bergen and the construction of the Student Society’s multipurpose hall in Stavanger. In addition, I have to be satisfied with the fact that the Department prioritises a new science building at the Sami University of Kautokeino, so that construction may start as early as 2007. The old defense facility where the school operates today is not suitable for educational facilities. The Workers' Party is pleased that a Joint Church, Education and Research Committee is in favour of the establishment of traffic pilot training in Bardufoss. It is now important that the start-up work continues, so that training can be undertaken as soon as possible. The majority of the Committee also supports the allocation to the cathedral of Nidarus. It's very joyful. Taking care of our cultural treasures is important for the Workers' Party. But we are concerned that there are now a number of church buildings and are falling into disrepute around the country. It has been said that the budget available is a winning budget for research and education. I don't know if I fully agree with that. The Workers' Party is pleased with the promise in the elementary school. We welcome the increase in research funds, the full financing of the quality reform and the strengthening of the general local economy, but we believe, of course, that more can be done. The working party is concerned that we should share. But if we're going to divide, we're going to have to create first. I think that's one of the big challenges we're facing. I look forward with excitement to the treatment of the paper on innovation, because I believe R & D activities, business development and innovation will be crucial to preserving the country as a strong welfare nation. In particular, I think it is important that the different parts of the country develop skills and business opportunities based on their comparative advantage. In this regard, it is important that students and students learn entrepreneurship and innovation from their different teaching places. This is a subject I think both the school councils and the committee will focus in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e689	In 2004, too, education and research are the major budgetary gains. Right-wing promises in the election campaign are being made year after year, and the 2004 budget is also taking us a step closer. The last few years have seen a turn from quantity to quality in education policy. Although the school in Norway is good, more knowledge through increased research has revealed new challenges that need to be addressed. How to ensure a good learning outcome for all pupils in school is probably one of the biggest dilemmas facing politicians and school owners. A lot of excitement lies ahead of us in terms of the quality of the training. Many measures have already been taken by the Government and new measures have been proposed. Overall, the allocation of quality development in initial training is increasing by almost 50 million. kr to next year. The scheme of bonus and demonstration schools has been a measure in which the good examples of schools have been rewarded for the first time. New demonstration schools will also be designated next year. This year, the Ministry also awarded a school owner’s prize for the first time with the Local Governments’ Central Association, and wishes to focus through such an initiative on the important role of school owners in quality development. There were also 1000 scholarships awarded to teachers for continuing education in the basic subjects of mathematics and Norwegian, which are in line with the Right’s focus on the competence of teachers. Although much has been done to increase the quality of training, much will be done until next year. Perhaps the most exciting thing is the creation of the digital quality portal «skoleporten.no». This website is going to be important, as information on quality development at each and every school will be general information for students, parents, teachers and school owners. Knowledge is important to improve the Norwegian school, and ‘schoolporten.no’ is just going to contribute to it. I initially registered a scepticism for publishing the school's development results. This scepticism seems to have settled down, even here in the Storting. Several trials have been started in the current year in the field of secondary education. One of the most interesting is the experiment that operates in Båtsfjord. The municipality is responsible for the entire 13-year course of education for students in the municipality. This is the first attempt to see the whole of basic education as a whole, which is likely to become more important in the future. The quality committee has proposed a stronger link between today’s primary and secondary education, and it is therefore interesting to learn from the experience of Båtsfjord. Further education has also been given a boost through the new support system for pupils in ordinary secondary education. The framework for next year is increased by 400 million. kr, and the scheme is more targeted than the old one. Thousands of students who come from families with a weak economy can now complete secondary education without debt. This means a lot to them, as it is known that students with student loans already from high school peak the statistics on those who have financial problems later. The new system of support for secondary education students is probably one of the greatest contributions to social cohesion within the education cycle. Landlines have been a repeat in this hall for many years. Initially, the county councils are responsible for secondary education, but the state took responsibility for very cost-intensive lines that should have the whole country as an entrance area. The system of landlines has been expanded over the years, and today there are quite a number of offers. The majority of the Committee has asked the Ministry to go through the lines which have gained national status in the 1990s, in order to assess whether some lines should become nationwide lines instead of state-funded landlines. Overall, the 2004 budget is good for building further Knowledge Norway. The next year will be an interesting year for all those interested in education, as several important road choices will be made. On the Right Road, there is quality improvement in the school that is at the top of the list. That's what the later generations will notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e712	It is and has been a practice for many years that changes in school and higher education appear to be necessary for ever-new state councils to appear to be well-profiled and capable of action. This means that new reforms will take place before the previous change has taken effect, so that the necessary evaluation has taken place. Such practice may give rise to a gain for a lot, but it also provides unforeseeability for users. This great zeal is giving rise to speculation among the people most about what is actually involved in politics. There are two issues that concern the Progress Party on this occasion. It is a student of rights who deserves punishment for crimes, and it is the special educational action chain, with the state support system for training children, young people and adults with special needs. In our prisons today, there are increasing numbers of young offenders with more and more sentences. This is a development that no one likes, but which seems to be impossible to stop the instruments that a majority of the population considers adequate and fair. It is a fact that many students of rights in Norwegian prisons do not receive the training they require, and this may be a contributing factor in their often becoming repeaters in the prison system. The possibilities of permanent work, housing and family life are small. Taking away from the right-holders the right to an equivalent training offer during accruals is a double penalty. It's not acceptable. Prison education must, as a first priority, take care of the lives of the right. Many of these do not have the necessary literacy skills, and training becomes pointless when these skills are not available to users. Therefore, prison training must first do the job that the normal school has previously neglected. Furthermore, we have another large number of children, young people and adults with special needs related to rights in relation to training. These people often have complicated and complex inhibitions. These may include everything from congenital inhibitions to the results of disease and external violence, conditions that have led to the loss of skills. What all of these have in common is that the municipal and county apparatus has neither competence nor scope to guarantee a satisfactory offer in relation to basic knowledge and skills. This field is under cap. 243 in the budget. The progress party will refer to St.meld. No 23 for 1997-98 and Innst. S. No 228 for 1997-98, now five years old, dealing with the issues of the reorganisation of special education, an example of a school policy area where good intentions and suggestions have not always been followed up in practice with satisfactory provision of adapted training. A proposal was made by the Progress Party and the Right at the time that the Government would submit a notification to the Stortinget that would put the special educational action chain into a wider context, including: address the relationship with the habilitation service and other services that overlap the response chain, and measures that can act as a preventative and lessen the need for traditional special education. In connection with Innst. S. 214 for 1998-99, one year later, these parties reiterated their concerns and re-proposed the appointment of a wide-ranging sample, etc. The right is in government and has the Council of State in this field, but none of these proposals have been dealt with by this government in a way that we in the Progress Party can accept. Rather, we see a strategy for a continuous reduction of funds and a series of organisational framework measures without material content for users. This is very regrettable. The budget line for Statsped has now been reduced by approx. Thirty million. DKK due to downskilling at the Western Centre of Competence, reduced internativity – 30 million. kr, which means that other centres also had to reduce their activities. Furthermore, 14.5 million were transferred. kr from Chapter 243 to Chapter 202 because the Secretariat was to be integrated with the Learning Centre. The budget agreement further reduced the chapter by 30 million. kr, stating the reason ‘improvement due to conversion’. I dare remind you that the Progress Party is against the reorganisations that have led to what we call the Learning Center. We are also against the measures now taken, because we have no faith that these organisational measures will change the actual conditions of the Learning Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e739	I have noticed with interest in this debate that there has not been one major theme that has distinguished itself as the big, controversial theme that many have engaged in, and that has engaged a lot. On the contrary, it has been expressed satisfaction by all the teams with completely essential parts of the budget, and when I say materially, I mean both important parts and extensive and large parts of the budget. I am, of course, pleased about that. I don't think this relative deportability is because it's approaching Christmas, I think it's simply because the Ministry of Education and Research's budget, the budget for education and research, is a very good budget, yes, it's probably resourceful on the education side very well, measured against virtually every other country in the world. The budget promoted by the Government was good, and it is also good after the budgetary agreement concluded with the Workers' Party. I personally believe it was a great advantage that this was concluded so painless and in such dignified forms, because I believe it strengthens confidence in politics, and because it is good on account of the country's economy. However, the 2004 budget of the Ministry of Education and Research is also an important milestone because it supports and fully finances a very large reform, namely the quality reform of higher education. Not all budgets can be such a milestone every year. Quality reform in higher education is Norway’s response to major and current challenges for the university and higher education sectors around the world, and it is Norway’s response to the so-called Bologna process, now taking place in 40 countries. An en route report that came a few weeks ago shows that Norway is among the two or three countries most likely to implement what these 40 countries now agree to implement, and there is reason to be proud of it. There are always challenges related to the scale of migration processes that the university and higher education sectors are currently undergoing. However, the big picture is that the reform is carried out with great force and enthusiasm, and that some of the horrors that were heard in advance, for example. that small and rare subjects would now be sacrificed on the altar of efficiency, already appear to have been shamed, yes, it is rather that something new is emerging across and between old trade boundaries. Some voices are critical in the public debate. So let me remind you of some of the challenges we are currently dealing with in Norway in higher education. First of all, the number of students in Norway has increased by approx. 100 pst. during the last 10 years. You could say that higher education has gone from being an elite phenomenon to being a mass phenomenon. It requires other forms of education and work. Secondly, higher education in Norway is free of charge. It's a big economic boost that commits. The education system itself must also be economically sustainable, so sustainable that it will be as good or better for the generations that come after us, and it requires that we also take an interest in the progress of students. Thirdly, universities and colleges are de facto in a competitive situation, and that is a challenge, especially for small countries, for peripheral countries, for small language areas and for poor countries. Therefore, it is essential that we also claim quality, and therefore it is important to focus on research. It is important for many reasons, but it is particularly important because it is research-based education. I am therefore well pleased with the research budget, where we continue the escalation plan, we continue and strengthen a number of quality measures, we stick to the OECD target. It is very demanding – and it is not to hide that it is a challenge that we have problems with the share of investment in private sector research. But we have to stick to the target. When it comes to school, I think we're getting a more important debate for spring. We must then assume that Norway already has one of the world’s best education systems. It's available to everyone, we have a high level of education, and we keep high quality in many areas. And when we're going to move on, we also have to assume that we now have more knowledge than ever about school, and that there's a lot of consensus about diagnosis and what we should do about. Two main points are adapted and differentiated training and more systematic learning. I think that we are facing three important challenges in the field of school, which we have to discuss in the spring. Firstly, how can we reduce the quality differences that have been identified within our education system and between countries, which need to be explained by something other than resources? Secondly, if school is to be inclusive, how should it deal with the new diversity of students that it needs to deal with now and in the future? And third, how is the school supposed to meet the knowledge society and be the learning organisation that the school is supposed to be, so that it is also knowledge-intensive and prominent?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e762	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e765	More than 50 pst. by students from 1 to 4. class has a place in the school leisure system, and the Workers' Party believes that it should be a public responsibility to ensure that it is a good offer. We disagreed when the government cut off the subsidy to the SFO, and we disagreed that one – before one really had it up and up – transferred the school leisure scheme to the framework, and we see that it has led to significant price increases, which have made it so difficult for many that they have actually cut in time or left the place. In the vote, a majority of government parties and the Advance Party stress that municipalities can use other providers to provide SFO services, for example: parents and grandparents. When children are priced out of the scheme, a natural consequence of the position can of course be that you have to take care of the children yourself. Is this also the line of the Council of State in relation to the development of the SFO? Is she opposed to seeing the offer to schoolchildren during the day at a time?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e772	As regards the development of the SFO and the quality and content of the SFO, I have previously said in a question-time response to another representative here in the Chamber that we have postponed the plans to come back to Stortinget with it. It is related to the quality selection setting, which clearly also has implications for SFO. Whether or not to integrate SFOs in school can be seen differently. I believe it is essential to maintain respect for the school as a school, and that the SFO is a voluntary offer alongside. However, there is such a broad consensus that the number of hours spent in school should now be increased — perhaps more time spent in early school in games and leisure time to be able to cope with a longer school day — that there will obviously be less need for SFOs. This means that the progress to be made must be seen in the light of it. I think there will be less need in two ways: one is that there will be less time you need to go to the SFO, but I think that if more parents meet one day at high school with firmer frameworks, it will also be easier for parents to have full-time or part-time jobs within these frameworks, than it is today, with very up-to-date school weeks for the smallest children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e777	Three things: firstly, with regard to this observation from the Council of State on a common and unison jubilee, we in the Advancement Party reserve ourselves. There's a lot to draw for. Part of it I've been inside in my own post. What is politically remarkable is that there should be a greater degree of non-discrimination between private schools and private colleges. So it's not a unison jubilee. Secondly, I would like to point out that when the Quality Reform was adopted, there was a majority comment on proposing partial coverage of the tuition fee to students at the BI School of Business. It was repeated in the 2002 budget. How's that work going? So to the third. The Council of State replied by letter of 24 November to the Advance Party on the award of vocational education: ‘An increase in the total number of students is not included in the budget for 2004 because the allocation has an upper framework limiting the total number of students eligible for grants.’ Why do we set such a framework when we have a good grasp of students and applicants for this important education? What is it that makes you set a limit that is out of proportion to demand?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e792	What's the reason for setting a frame? – There have been many such questions here today. Why is it no longer granted there, why is it cut there, why is it set limits? The reason for that is budgetary considerations. The test whether you are manageable, whether you can take responsibility and have responsibility is that you have the ability to give priority. Then you can't say yes to everything. I'm going to admit that the Workers' Party has the ability to prioritise, for example. when they are in government. The scope of the cuts contained in the 2004 Ministry of Education and Research budget is, as far as I recall, less than when Trond Giske presented his last budget. The point is that adjustments and cuts must be made in all budgets. The reason for this is budgetary considerations. In the case of BI, which is a private college, I want to show that the Stortinget has wanted us to come back with proposals for a common and modernised law for private and public higher education institutions. There is a public investigation of what is now being consulted, and then we will come back to the Grand Duchy with proposals on common law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e799	Lifelong learning, as I said in my main post, is a basic principle of the Quality Reform for Higher Education, and that is also the basis for many of the proposals in the Quality Committee's position, which we are going to deal with in the spring. We've adopted a reform of competences that we're not quite going to make work, in which we're not completely going to live, probably because of a lack of financial resources. I don't know for sure, but I guess one of the reasons is lack of financial resources. Then the Council of State proposes to cut down quite extensively in the appropriations for adult training organisations and for distance learning. Is there something that the Council of State is doing with great pleasure in relation to what is going on in lifelong learning, where we're not getting it all done? We've put in place a good deal of structures, etc., but we're not getting into the reform. My question to the Council of State is, Is this something that she is satisfied with, or is this something that really bothers her?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e810	Saying that I cut with great joy, would probably be stretching it a little long, just as I didn't say instead that there was a common and unison cheer here. I said it was expressed satisfaction. So I spoke in a little more sober order. But I believe that what we have done is justifiable. We have done this because I have the ability to prioritise, and what is important this year's priority, is the quality reform, which must be backed up by good research budgets, because the quality reform is about institutions that conduct research-based education, among other things. The cuts made in the budget do not differ from the cuts made annually in a budget of this magnitude. Just so it's said. With regard to lifelong learning, it is not certain that the challenge is precisely about these organisations. That's what I want to add. The recent report of competence that we have presented to Norway for 2003 suggests that our main challenge is about our attitudes to learning in daily work. Then I'm talking not only about our attitudes as people, but also about our attitudes as a nation, as businesses and as businesses. Here lies the source of improvement. We have good systems for lifelong learning, but we have a little lingering attitudes to it in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e817	The government writes in its draft budget at Cape. 243 Special Education Competence Centre: ‘The concession allows the 2003 level of activity to continue in most areas, but the financial framework requires the board to give careful priority to the disposal of the funds’. The budget agreement further reduces this item by 30 million. kr. Does the Council of State still believe that the activity can be maintained at a 2003 level, or does it account for structural changes? If structural changes are proposed, will the Council of State submit them to the Grand Duchy before further planning and implementation of these structural changes take place?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e829	The changes in the budget relating to Statped cannot be implemented without doing so, but I believe that they can be implemented without affecting users. I believe that they can be implemented through organisational changes, changes in the regional breakdown, etc. I want to give tribute to Statped, because I think they're dealing with this kind of challenge in a very good way. I also believe – and most importantly – that there is a great potential in the organisational integration we have proposed through the changes in the State Education Administration. It is, in my opinion, a very important signal. Firstly, there is a signal that adapted training is to be taken seriously, that there are often hairy distinctions between special education on the one hand and adapted training on the other, and that this is a challenge for Norwegian school. Secondly, it is a very strong signal, at least it is meant that the inclusion principle is to be taken seriously. In fact, I have great expectations of this integration. I'm also going to give tribute to Statped because they've gone into this work in such a positive way. With regard to special education, it's a topic we're going to get back to in the spring's quality notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e840	A settlement is both giving and taking. Some suggestions may be more difficult than others. I want to take this opportunity while I have the Council of State here, to say that I want one to follow very closely with regard to the centres of expertise and the cuts that have been made there, to prevent this from going beyond the service provision. As a budgetary partner, we are very open that the Council of State may come back to revision if she thinks it is necessary to do something extra. I would also like to stress what Rolf Rekovam was concerned about, namely adult education. It's happened over two years, which means there's a little bit of systematics in it. It's no coincidence. I agree that those posts are not necessarily absolutely essential for adult education, but this is at least no contribution to improving it. My question: does the Council of State have ambitions in the field of adult education, continuing education? Can we expect greater efforts, and in what context?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e851	Yes, I actually have great ambitions in lifelong learning and that whole idea. I notice very well internationally that Norway is very advanced in establishing systems and rights related to lifelong learning. There are a lot of international references to Norway here. At the same time, it is revealed that we have problems with our attitudes and to follow them up in practice. There is not much going on in the systems, but there is little learning in the day-to-day business in Norway when you are at work. We have a slightly old-fashioned view of the development of skills as a kind of continuing training provision – that this is something that the employees get from the employer, almost as a reward or an alternative to pay, rather than looking at what the business needs in order to deliver good services and products. I think we have a challenge in implementing this thinking in the workplace. I'm going to honestly admit that I don't know exactly how to do it. But we have set up a forum for competence and working life where we have a very good dialogue on the issues, and where the next step will be to try to bring this thinking into the workplace properly. It also applies to the school as a working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e862	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e865	When SV says children and young people first, it's not just beautiful words and phrases. SV bets at primary school, where students will learn, acquire knowledge and participate in shaping society. It is essential to invest in education and research to make Norway a leading knowledge nation. It is one of the most important means of combating class divisions and creating more justice. There is a need for a bet in general public schools, where children with different backgrounds come together. That is what will create tolerance and fellowship in a society that is becoming increasingly fragmented and diverse. SV therefore took the initiative in the fall of a large school settlement between all the lots. A school for everyone is for the benefit of everyone. SV will therefore create a good and modern public school for all, not private schools for the few, a school where all students will develop their professional and social skills, in line with their own assumptions, and where students are given equal opportunities for learning, in the form of adapted – not equal – education. SV is concerned that there are too many students today who fall away. One-fifth goes out of primary school without good enough reading and writing skills. The boys are hanging out for the girls in most subjects. Minority students lose knowledge because they have too poor language understanding, and students who are followed by parents with high education and income learn more and better than students without the same follow-up. You can't accept that school contributes to systematic inequalities in the learning outcomes of students. We will fight against a development that leads to greater differences and social inequality. We have to create a school that puts the individual student in the center. It means adapted training, student participation and students being able to show what they are good at. The only way a person can do his best and acquire knowledge is by using his knowledge, by showing what he is good at, and by believing in himself. Norway has the ability to create the world's best school. Nevertheless, school life is marked by the fact that the school does not have enough financial resources. The government is changing our school structure. The slogan ‘Better School by Using Less Money’ is constantly there. The need for community economics has given schools too little time and resources to follow up on each individual student. Instead of organising learning work in a variety of ways, with smaller groups, project work and closer follow-up, organised education often has to give way to more traditional forms of teaching. The lack of resources results in cateter education in large classes with only one teacher and also results in many schools lacking up - to - date textbooks, digital textbooks and necessary material in practical subjects such as home and art and crafts. Schools are laid down, pools are closed, libraries are laid down. I would like to refer to a comment by the majority of the Committee, which includes the governmental parties, which reads as follows: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Workers’ Party, believes that it is essential that students experience success at school, and considers that there is not the number of hours allocated to each student, but the training that is the most important for their learning outcomes. If students are to be allowed to experience mastering and learning, qualitative and organised training is important.’ I ask the Council of State to take this with me when it comes to facilitating the adopted increase in class hours from 1st to 4th grade. About half of Norwegian schools do not have a good enough indoor environment. In its alternative budget, SV increased the allocation in this area by DKK 4 billion. I would also like to refer to a committee comment that I believe is very important, pointing out that the municipalities should make universal demands for the design of new school buildings, as the committee has been told that very many municipalities do not. I'll finally come up with some important tools that we can use within our committee. The entire Committee stresses the importance of ICT being used as an integral part of education. But then the budget partners refer to the budget agreement in the financial position and reduce the item by 10 million. kr. This is a step in the wrong direction, says SV. SV wants to bet on ICT in school, and we're increasing our alternative budget line by 50 million. kr. SV proposes to maintain the Government's allocation proposal. ‘National evaluation of the school leisure system’ shows that the need for the school leisure system has been increasing in recent years. This is due, inter alia, to: an increase in the number of single dependants and more working women. Today, more than half of the students in the 1st to 4th grade have a place in the SFO. I ask the Council of State to follow up on this in relation to the Quality Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e898	In May of this year, the faith training plan was adopted in Stortinget, and the first 5 million. kr was in place in the current year's budget. Today, we're going to adopt the first escalator, 30 million. kr – correct against the votes of the Progress Party. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the greatest and most important reform of the Church is under way in recent times. ‘There shall be no new central plan here, but the reform shall be experience-based. That is what is happening from local community councils and local staffs, which is important," said project leader Wirgenes when he updated the Church meeting on the reform in November. Within five to ten years, the project shall be integrated into the whole of the Church. The reform will challenge all parts of the Church's life, by driving a dissemination that not only gives knowledge but gives life interpretation and help to lifelong learning. And the parents are the biggest resource in the reform. It is important that children and young people are trained in their own faith to develop their own identity. Faith training shall help them in their spiritual development and in understanding their own culture and traditions. When the chapel Harald Bryne in Søndre Slagen got the IKO's baptismal training prize this year, his systematic work in the congregation for the different phases was highlighted, and the ability to do new work. When the congregation started a new arrangement in the autumn, almost 200 10- to 12-year-olds came. It turns out that when the offer is there, the children come. Still more than 80 pst. in the Norwegian Church. A user survey is unnecessary. Now it is essential that the churches and the Church's volunteer workers, priests, catechists, deacons and organizations are able to organise baptism training so that the reform can be realized. For this, resources are needed, as the Storting decides today. The party of progress not only cuts the whole reform of faith training, but also at all of the Church's budget lines, positions of achievement, Seaman's Commission, Church of Deaf, Church meeting, Bishop's meeting, etc. There's a clear difference here. A functioning schoolwork is of the greatest importance to any society. Here, identity and self-understanding are created, both as an individual, as part of a community, and as part of a cultural unit. National College is a school where solidarity, community and the search for knowledge are at the centre. It is also a school battle that raises the mind of administrators in both local and global contexts. Sverre Therkelsen, former principal at Fredtun Folkehochschule, said this: ‘It will soon have to be possible to convince a majority that schools are needed at least to qualify us for the job, most in order to qualify us for life.’ The basic principle of the higher education concept is to take care of a holistic view of humanity that stimulates social responsibility. The Christian People's Party sees this offer as an important study offer and is therefore pleased with the 12 million. kr which was added to the budget agreement. The funding scheme for students abroad receives a new model with this budget. It is a political goal that many students take all or part of their education abroad, preferably in a non-English-speaking country. The Christian People's Party is pleased that funding is being put in place by an organizer for these. Thus, more European countries are being made more attractive as study places. The Christian People's Party is engaged in internationalisation, which requires good language skills, because knowledge of language also means greater awareness of the country's culture and politics. These students will later add international competence to the Norwegian community. When fees scholarships are converted into school money support, they become independent of professional and non-necessary testing. This gives foreign students greater freedom to choose both the place of study and the professional field. Several construction projects in the university and higher education sectors are mentioned in the budget notes, including the co-location of the College in Vestfold. The project is approaching construction start. The quality committee will be completed during February, and the matter will then be sent to the Ministry of Finance for further consideration. As a result, it is well-placed for the start-up of new buildings to take place in the next harvest. With a note from a joint committee, we're a step forward in the process. Society is developing rapidly, and changes are coming more often and faster than before. This makes great demands on teachers. It is therefore important to facilitate the conditions for ensuring the best possible follow-up training for teachers. The scholarship programme for teachers in real science and Norwegian is important. I also want to refer to the training of teachers in the KRL, which is our most recent subject and therefore needs follow-up. It should also be such that school owners follow-up teachers on the way with the provision of skills enhancement measures. One does not have to have been a teacher long before one can see for himself how important it is to have professional security in order to provide good training for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e920	The budget for research and education is very good. It contains very important elements, such as full funding of the Quality Reform and a research effort. The Labour Party deserves praise for the good spirit of cooperation in the Committee, but when representatives Nielsen and Bjørnstad believe that they have helped to stop the right turn, I suppose in the name of propriety I must be allowed to comment that it is difficult to see that a reprioritisation of 0.7 pst. of a budget would be an abrupt halt to the political line of the Government. The need for full funding for the quality reform in higher education is evident. In the vast majority of higher education institutions, only about half of the total weights — or now the study score — are assigned to the norm. Feedback from students has been that for many years, among other things. follow up is too bad. Quality reform is an answer to the challenges facing higher education in Norway, from the standpoint of both students and institutions. Much of the core of the Quality Reform is closer follow-up through the study, shortening the duration of the study, and increasing intensity — all in order to improve the quality of higher education. It will require a lot of educational institutions, but it will also require a lot of students. The fact that the quality reform is fully financed in this budget now makes it possible to endorse the proposal of the former Education Council of the Workers Party, Trond Giske, promoted in the draft budget of the government of Stoltenberg for 2002, on the conversion of the study grants. It is now also a broad political majority for this conversion. The conversion of the study funding means that the entire grant share is 40 pst. are made depending on the school leaving. Today, this share is 15 pst. This is a transformation that created a debate when it was promoted in the 2004 government budget proposal, but still much less debate than it was two years ago. Two years ago, I was one of those who criticized the proposal, precisely considering that the proposal came before the quality reform was financed and implemented, and that closer follow-up and shorter courses of study were thus not started. At that time it was not reasonable to expect more weight or study score production from the students. So now the situation is different. It is also reflected in the public debate on this. I believe it is appropriate to introduce a conversion scheme where the entire grant rate is made depending on the credits given, and I will explain the premises for that position. The conversion scheme has no impact on students in the study period. The entire study support is paid out during the studies in the same way as it is now. So it's not a student, it's a graduate, that might get more loans. The study score setting framework is eight years. So you don't have one chance to succeed – if you don't get everything turned into a loan. In practice, completed students may have entered the repayment phase before any conversion from loans to scholarships has taken place. Thus, the debt can be reduced after the repayment phase. In addition, the Government has put in place a very important prerequisite, namely to maintain all social arrangements in the Loan Fund, so that study delays, for example due to illness or birth, do not lead to a lack of conversion. The grant scheme is a rule-driven scheme, i.e. that anyone entitled to convert loans into scholarships will receive it, regardless of what the savings proposal in the proposition is intended for. It could be said that if less than the estimated 10 pst share. not making a timely study score, savings will be reduced. It is therefore not that students partly fund the Quality Reform, precisely because savings can turn out to be zero. However, it is important to follow developments in how this conversion scheme will work, and therefore the majority of the Committee has asked the Ministry to report back to the annual budgets on the number of students who do not make their study credits. In this way, it will also be possible to follow developments in relation to whether the quality reform meets the expectations and intentions of increasing the number of study credits. Funding for foreign studies has been redeployed, and it is very positive that the old fee grant list is removed, and that freedom of choice is again becoming the most important. In addition, I would like to mention in particular that there is now an opportunity to support a so-called organising semester for foreign students wishing to study in non-English-speaking countries. Earlier this year, the size of the population dealt with the issue of student support for students in higher education, and the conversion from a school book lending scheme to a grant scheme for those with the worst economy was, in principle, important and correct. The old lending scheme was socially very distorted and contributed to students from families with good finances having to borrow one–two books at the expense of funding educational resources for students from families with poor advice. This may mean up to NOK 30000 in session scholarships per person. students per year; years, and it is a good and targeted scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e947	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e950	I am pleased that the Ministry of Fisheries's commitment to research has received broad agreement from the Committee, and I have taken note of the Committee's views on some specific issues. For a small country such as Norway, it is important to take advantage of the natural advantages, and one of the largest is fisheries. The exploitation and processing of natural resources has been based and will provide a significant basis for the future Norwegian industry. The potential in the marine sector is high. Therefore, the vision in the Ministry of Fisheries is also: Values from the sea – the future of Norway. It is also included in the annual budgets. For this reason, the Government has put a heavy emphasis on research, including in the 2004 budget proposal, and marine research is one of the thematic areas in which it is invested, both in the budgets of the Ministry of Fisheries and other departments and in the use of funds linked to the Research Fund. The Ministry of Fisheries is a heavy department of research, as the representative Voie correctly pointed out in his statement. More than 35 pst. of the general budget of the Ministry for Research. A large proportion of these funds go to the administrative research under the auspices of the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea, such as: together with the University of Bergen operates eight research vessels, plus leased-in smaller fishing vessels, they go to NIVES, the National Institute of Nutrition and Food Research, in Bergen, and to Fisheries Research in Tromsø. The industrial research appropriations are mainly put at a competitive disadvantage under the auspices of the Research Council, with the aim of playing as much as possible against and playing with funds from other sources of funding. Both marine biotechnology and farmed cod are priority areas within the Ministry's budget. The Tromsø environment is further strengthened as a focal point for national research related to the development of cod as a farmed species. The research programme for marine biotechnology, MABIT, has also been proposed further, and the Ministry of Fisheries has found room for prioritising the continuation of RUBIN outside the fisheries agreement. The Bergen–Tromsø axis is a support bar in marine research for future increased value creation in food production, technology, market and management. New products related to new species in farming, biotechnology and biotechnology, the exploitation of by-products and technology are fields of activity. The government has provided funds to strengthen Norwegian participation in the Sixth EU Framework Programme for Research. I am pleased to note that marine research communities have received a good record of their applications in the Sixth Framework Programme. It is important, and it shows that the marine environments are also competitive internationally. It should also be in a nation that has so much resources and so large sea areas. It is also important to ensure that the best use is made of research appropriations related, inter alia, to: The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Fisheries, and we have concluded a strategic cooperation alliance, the so-called blue-green alliance, so that we can exploit the synergies of the two fields. There's a lot of opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e967	The President sees that there are some people who are trying to draw themselves in line. The President will then only refer to what was approved by the Stortinget as a debate for this debate: ‘five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time’. Thus, the Ludvigsen Council has had the floor outside the allocated speaking time, so it is not possible for the President to grant any replies. It does not help how much you study the Rules of Procedure. That's the way it is, and that's how it gets. The next speaker is Berit Brørby.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e972	President, it's still possible to draw on a tree minute – without a call to the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e977	That is not absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e980	I figured the president would say that. I want to mention centres of expertise for special education. In this context, Briskeby secondary school is an offer to hearing-impaired people in both training and training to enable them to function optimally in society. The students who come from all over the country, and the school has highly skilled staff. The hard-heard children often fall between two chairs. They are not deaf, but they are not obedient. They are not sign language users and therefore do not need training under the Training Act §2-6, but they are dependent on organized education. There is an ongoing problem that there is little knowledge of hearing impairment in society. Lack of knowledge also often results in a lack of understanding of the needs of this group. Parents of unheard-of children say they are conducting an eternal struggle to ensure their children's ability to learn and become independent people. Briskeby school is the only high school in the country that is specially organized for the hard of hearing. The school offer they can provide is a safety net for hard-to-heard students in secondary school who fall through in proportion to the provision they can provide. In my opinion, therefore, Briskeby school needs to be secured and developed into a nationwide centre of competence for the hard-of-hearing. The welfare community should really afford it, I think. Otherwise, what the Committee has written about radiography training at the Gjøvik High School is positive. A unanimous committee believes that the department must assess this offer as a fixed study offer from the autumn of 2004. I really hope that the Council of State has noticed that. In my opinion, it would be totally unacceptable to build on the fact that there is already a well-established environment with very good cooperation with the hospital sector, and that further training in radiation therapy based on radiography education can also be offered. I ask the Council of State to note what a unanimous committee has actually said about this, and hope that the study offer can be firm, permanent and finally from the autumn of 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e993	The government's commitment to the quality reform of higher education, to research and to quality development in primary and secondary schools has been fully implemented in the budget of the year. These efforts have been continued in the Committee and stress that a power cap has been applied here. The budget of the Ministry of Education and Research is well on the way to a budget for higher education and research. The resources for initial training come from municipalities and fill through the framework transfers. The major and broad debate on more fundamental issues related to primary and secondary education will be the first to address the quality committee’s decision-making process. There will be an exciting debate. This year’s budget shows a sharp increase in funding for quality development in initial training, nearly 50 million. kr. There is good reason to express satisfaction with this strong commitment. The efforts that have been and that will now continue to be reinforced contribute to increasing the quality of many areas of initial training. It's necessary. Increased teacher competence is an important part of quality development, and in addition, and perhaps not least, for the organisation of learning outcomes and the development of good learning environments. Of course, from the Right we are very pleased that this work is now continuing with great force. The budget agreement with the Workers' Party increases teaching hours in primary school. This is well in line with the Right Programme and the Right Policy. An increase in the number of hours during the first steps strengthens initial training in important areas such as reading, writing and billing. The Government Parties and the Workers' Party state in their budgetary observations that the increase in the number of hours should be used for just this: reading, writing and billing. In the event of an incursion, a sentence from the committee treatment is lost in the setting. The majority of the committees have wanted to state that it is assumed that all municipalities introduce an hour in line with this, i.e. in line with the increase. As this has fallen away from the setting, there is reason to stress this from the pulpit. I would also like to stress that the increase in the number of hours from the Right should not be interpreted as saying yes to the Workers' Party's thoughts and plans for a full-day school where the SFO is somehow intrigued into the compulsory primary school. On the right, we want to strengthen the training of the central basic subjects, and we want to keep the school and the voluntary SFO offer separate. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the colleges. On the right, we would like to express our satisfaction at the fact that the budgetary agreement does not go hand in hand with the continuation of the government's school policy. There is consistency between laws and regulations and appropriations, and primary schools have a predictable economy. Finally, I would like to comment on proposal No. 26, from SV. The project at Strand High School is an interesting and exciting project. However, we are not prepared to support the proposal as it stands now, but we would urge the representative, Mr Requam, to turn it into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1010	I'm going to spend my three minutes talking a little bit about church economics. If we take out the appropriations for the new project of baptism training, the Church will receive one billion kroner via the church, education and research committee. Here, the Progress Party proposes a cut of 11.7 million. kr, that is 1,1 pst. The Christian People's Party together with the other government parties and the Workers' Party has a cut of 5 million. kr, which amounts to approx. 1⁄2 pst. Whether there are dramatic differences in cuts of 11.7 million. NOK 5 million. NOK, I leave safely to others to assess. The new set-up for baptism training is the Progress Party against – it cannot be a surprise for anyone – not the goal of the project, but because the scope and content in our view are unclear. The Progress Party is amazed that the Church itself and the government parties will invest in such an expenditure-intensive programme without better clarification of demand, content and future funding. Therefore, the Advance Party reduces the funding for the baptismal training project from 28.5 million. NOK 5 million. kr, and the 5 million. NOK will be used for better pre-work before we start such a project. The party of progress is particularly amazed at this eagerness to launch new projects within the Church, when the economy is still so weak. The Progress Party again calls for a broader review of the Church economy. There is, in our opinion, a clear need for that. The short review given in an annex to the 2004 Community Economic Proposition shows that many Joint Councils have implemented austerity measures in the winter of 2003. In the time that will elapse before the Commission that investigates the State-Church relationship presents its position and its conclusion, the Church shall live with the current financial arrangements. Therefore, it is necessary to look at them more closely. It is therefore necessary to provide for clarification of financial responsibility for construction — museum buildings and church buildings with a national function. A clarification here, with the accompanying financial clarification, would obviously provide the Church with significantly better financial conditions. Therefore, the Progress Party is committed to such clarification as regards maintenance and responsibilities for church buildings. For this reason, the Progress Party is once again promoting proposals for this in the course of the budgetary procedure here in the Grand Duchy. And there are proposals that the Christian People's Party once again votes against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1025	There are two things about this educational policy debate that I think are fairly strong. One is that there is a cross-political broad support for the government's school policy. Although the representative of the Progress Party expressed it so that there was no unison cheer, I have not actually been able to record that the Progress Party has taken a significant distance from the main lines of the policy. On the contrary, in many ways they have expressed great satisfaction with the way in which they work, and the way in which they work to make demands on quality, requirements for competence, requirements for students to learn something in school, so that they can get out with a result that is better than what we have had in Norwegian school for decades. The other thing that I think we can see also after this debate, is that the SV + Senter party = true. In almost any area of the setting, either the Centre Party has joined the comments and suggestions of the Socialist Left Party or vice versa. If I were to try to interpret it, it's like the Central Party in every area has joined the Socialist Left Party's school policy. One interpretation of it again is that the Centre Party has no school policy — they have no policy in this area either. The Socialist Left Party spokesman was in his first post that the answers are not in the past, we have to look forward to. One of the approaches and basic guiding principles of government policy is that we constantly try to look ahead to create a better school – a school that is adapted to tomorrow’s requirements and not to the dogmatic views of the past on education and education policy. I think we have here developed an ideological distinction in the debate. SV is suspended in the school of the past, which has shown its intransigence and lack of results in many ways – presented in a number of national and international surveys, and which have shown to a large extent that we need to do something else. However, when we try to follow a small international trend, by opening up to fresh oils in Norway — which we almost do not have, only 1–2 pst. – says SV that this is to release market forces and turn the school into a marketplace. At the same time, one agrees to cut down brutally on the grant to these schools, which in turn makes it a school for the few, to an extreme selection school, instead of giving the opportunity for the many who want to choose an alternative school to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1034	Communication is not easy – when I hear Søren Fredrik Voie’s articles now finally here. I used half of my post to try to draw up some visions to try to see what the challenges are, and then I get to hear this. I guess I'm the only one in this debate who at least tried to draw up a certain vision of the future, some challenges, that we have to be willing to think about something new in relation to the challenges we have. I was reasonably clear on this. I said, well, there wasn't one thing about the truth that we weren't willing to question. And then I'm told that we are the past, we represent the past. Communication then becomes extremely difficult, but you just have to be aware that it is. What impressed most in this debate was actually Elsa Scarbøvik and her tribute to the public high school, after her government has proposed to cut the public high school appropriations by 20 million. kr. Then it's quite impressive to make such a strong tribute. Then the Workers' Party has obviously pressured them to reduce the cut. We must thank the Labour Party for that – and obviously they should be grateful for that. So to higher education. As I said, the government is to be commended for what they've done in relation to higher education, but not for the way this is funded, that it's taken from the study funding. Then you can argue like Ine Marie Eriksen, but in any case there's a cut of 133 million. kr on the study funding, which students are required to repay in the form of loans. And the serious thing about changing student funding is that it can affect recruitment, that it can create fear and insecurity, which means that many people do not choose to invest in higher education. Then I'm glad that SV gets a majority to strengthen medical education in Norway. The fact that we have now said that we are going to do well to take care of the education of doctors, increase the educational capacity in Trondheim and Tromsø and buy back the places we are now buying abroad, I think that's good, and that's great for me. I hope now that this will be followed up by the Government, and I do not doubt for a moment that it will be. So to internationalization. I also think it is good to try to address this with a fee grant, although the way it is done is not the way I would recommend it. But yet we have chosen to support this arrangement as it is. It is important now that we are able to strengthen the exchange through Norwegian institutions, and that one follows up the observation made by the majority in there, in order to try to strengthen the exchange through Norwegian institutions, that several Norwegian students are given the opportunity to leave, and that we get more in – through the institutions, well to notice. Then I would also like to say that I am pleased that the majority has now said that the exchange system that is going on in high school, where a class exchanger, will continue until further notice. I hope the government will think again before they come back and propose a cut at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1050	I just want to repeat that in the agreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties, there was also an overall basis for more money and resources for public welfare at the expense of tax relief, and that, for example. such things as opportunities for higher levels of temporary employment were eliminated. It's not typical right-wing policy to have that angle, so I think we've reduced the right-wing turn that we've seen in the last two years, when the government parties have chosen to cooperate with the Progress Party. This seems to me to have been a calm and tidy debate in the field of education. Most have talked about their own policies, and there have not been so many attacks, in addition to the more expected criticism of some of the cuts that have been made, and for which I will not argue anything good. However, I have some comments. It was said by the representative Olsen that he was satisfied with the agreement, because we gave our support to the financing of private schools. I can assure the representative Olsen that it is only temporary. At least we have not satisfied the debate on the freedom of establishment and subsequent financing. So to the argument about the private schools. It is constantly repeated that this is because of international conventions and in order to safeguard the rights of parents. In the private school debate we had, there were very different reasons. I think it's quite in place, as we point out in the position, that the right of establishment goes far beyond what conventions should require of us. In any case, no one was able to prove that we have received some criticism from the international team for the private school law we had until this summer. Then I am glad that SV has clarified their relationship with the financing. They've now aged 300 million. kr, because they believe that the basis of the Government is not good enough. They believe that there are savings here, but they are firmly attached to the content of the Finance Act, which means 85 pst. grant rate and 100 pst. financing of pension costs. Our main issues in this budget were the extension of the number of hours, the strengthening of the school building lending scheme and the safeguarding of the municipal economy as the primary basis for the school. We've had an impact on that. And we haven't actually followed up promises from the election campaign about a bet in school until this year. We're very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1065	Art and culture make life worth living, and there is no exception for North Norway, perhaps on the contrary – even more important in North Norway. Art and culture are also a growing industry. The allocation to the Hålogaland Theatre, which came from the state council of Svarstad Haugland in revised, was important and great and a very great uplift for North Norway. North Norway is the only country without higher education. I refer to the fact that the committee has previously asked the government to continue working on higher art education in Troms, and come back with a separate case to Stortinget. In the budget now the Committee does the same. The situation in North Norway is now such that established artists move. They move towards Oslo, towards the institutions, where the possibility of both education and training is great. We now have a great opportunity to establish this education, because we have a lot of young people in North Norway running movies. We have an active film environment, which requires the Government and the Storting to enter and take a pledge to give the necessary competences. I hope the Council of State will come back to this, at the latest in the revised version.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1074	I regret to the extent that it feels necessary to take another three-minute post, but it is also necessary from the Right to attach some comments to the church budget. I would like to be allowed to draw out two very positive things from the church budget. Firstly, the allocation of baptismal training. It is tremendously positive and gratifying that this matter has been followed up with the expected appropriations, or at least the requested appropriations. The new investment in baptismal training is in full swing, and the work under way under the auspices of the Council of Churches has been given a positive start and, as far as I am informed, is well in line with Storting's intentions in Innst. S. No 200 for 2002-2003. The fact that the funds are now in place for the first year of the trial period gives the Church the opportunity to start the campaign in the churches, while at the same time giving the Church the obligations to design the arrangement so that it gets the local anchoring and the width that the Storting has provided. There is reason to congratulate the Minister of the Church on the fact that this important matter has now been followed up, including in terms of appropriations. I would like to be allowed to challenge the Council of State to say something about how she understands that this work can now be developed, and what progress it can now be in this bid for baptismal training. I will also link a few comments to the chapter. 342 Nidaros Cathedral. Last year, the Committee had a majority comment pointing to the plans for a new building in connection with Nidarosdom, on the north side of the West Front Square. The majority of the Committee expresses satisfaction in the year’s suspension of the follow-up announced in the budget by the fact that the new building is financed by the Information Society’s fund for an annual rental. It is very gratifying that this has been found a solution that hopefully will ensure that the new building is ready for the coronation anniversary in 2006. I would also like to point out the majority of the Committee's comments on the Seaman's Church. The Seaman's Church does a great and valuable job, not only for seafarers, but for the Nordics in general. We recently saw this in connection with the tragic death accident in Krakow, where a young student from Arendal died. Representatives of the Seaman's Church were quickly present and could be of help and support to those who stood back. It is also worth noting that the Progress Party has clearly used the church chapters as balancing items for other budget chapters. It is clear that for the Progress Party, these chapters have only had an interest as balancing items – changes with ‘political content’, said the representative Sortevik earlier today. 33.7 million. NOK 385 million in total. This is a significant and large cut in an already tight budget. Baptism training cuts the progress party so to speak completely. In addition, expenses to the Councils of Bishops, Councils of Commons and performances are cut. It's to hope that these big cuts and the idea that these are balancing items are noticed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1089	The debate shows that there is a concerted increase in the quality reform of the university and higher education sectors. We're glad it can kind of be signed out now. The debate also shows that initial training is at the centre of the educational policy debate. I noticed here the government's references to challenges both in terms of the quality differences we have in initial training, and also in terms of the new diversity of students given to the school, and the challenges it brings. That is why I also agree with the Council that adapted training and differentiation are important in meeting these challenges. At the same time, I would also like to argue that the challenges are bigger in some steps than in others. Youth is facing special challenges. So I repeat my challenge to the parties in this room to join a common high school. At the same time, I would challenge the Council of State to clarify how she intends to follow up the Sem Declaration's references to the needs of high school. I also noticed that the representative Robertsen's posts around the School Gate, that the'school port.no' is now becoming an important tool. I think it might be important, but not to count. The interpretation of the numbers is going to be the most important. I think it will be the challenge in the ‘school port.no’. I think the story behind the numbers is going to be multiple. I think the interpretation is influenced by ideological statement. However, the most important effect will probably come in the local school debate, as it will provide the basis for taking up the school's work and getting into a local dialogue. Let me also allow me two lines at the end. The first is in relation to the representative Rikvam, who thought that the Christian People's Party could not salute the folk high school. Yes, the Christian People's Party can do that. I do not conceal that the Christian People's Party has wanted to be able to correct the cut. I'm happy to have the Work Party with me at $12 million. kr. There's nothing in the Workers' Party's alternative budget to straighten it out. So I'm glad we've got our partners on it. Finally, the representative, Mr. Sortevik's posts on the church economy and his reasons there, I noticed. Obviously we have to see all the figures in context, but one cannot say no to new measures because if the church economy is weak, then cut the church economy even more. It weakens the argument in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1104	The representative Voie claimed that the Socialist Left Party + the Center Party = true in this budget. The same can be said about the government parties and the Workers' Party, without me wanting to use the rest of the representatives Voie's expenses related to this. I will briefly enter camp school and the state transfers for the purpose, which have been a gymnastic exercise over time with many volts and variations. The provision of a camp-school accommodation shall be an offer to all children as part of the training. Students in public schools are awarded approx. 1 000 kroner per year. students from the country through the framework grant or otherwise. The promotion party has been concerned with the clay school offer and with the credibility and predictability of the offer for all users. We find it strange that equivalence does not apply to children in private education, because their allocations have a two-year lag. But it is granted approx. 60 million. kr that would have resulted in approx. NOK 1000 to cover the excess in case of stay and travel to camp schools for pupils in public and private education. Where are these means today? Has the funds reached all primary school users? Has the means been used by the high school population? If the answer is no, where's the proportion of high school students in the 60 million. kr today? And can we get an overview of what they've been used for?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1115	Arne Sortevik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1118	There will be a brief comment on a response from the Education Council to the question of framework grants for technical vocational schools. It sounds like the whole economy is going to fall to the 275 million. kr which is shown. There is reason to remember that it is not that easy to get away from the responsibility. On top. 221, for training for linguistic minorities, there is a framework allocation of 785 million. kr. We now experience in the case that will be dealt with afterwards, that this appropriation will be increased by 119 million in December. kr. So there is the will, and the balance does not matter. On top. So 240, which is for private schools, which is an estimate, is almost 1,900 million. kr. A reduction is made to this chapter in the case which will be dealt with subsequently. My point is that when there is a manifest imbalance between the framework and the demand from students, it should actually be possible with some political will to make a change, i.e. to increase the framework that is better suited to the needs of the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1129	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1132	The reason I asked for the word was Vidar Bjørnstad's posts that were for SV and private schools. It's hard to get the Workers' Party to understand. I do not know if there is a lack of ability to understand or if it is a bad will – I choose to believe that there is a lack of ability to understand! The point is that we support this proposal for financing because it was a less harmful and less destructive proposal than what was there about using the national average. It was a compromise. But our view of private schools and their funding is reflected in the position in which we formed a majority with the Workers' Party three to four years ago. There is the sketch and the arrangement for how we want to finance private schools. There we stood with the Workers' Party. Now I hope that's the last time we hear this. So I'll bring up a little thing eventually. It concerns the financing of higher education buildings. We've pointed to a lot of barley. We've been pointing especially at Ås University. There's a lot of protective construction that we now have to tackle and do something with. I expect the Council of State to come back to us with that in the revised national budget. And then I'll say a little thing... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1143	No, nothing more now!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1146	I thought I'd make it easier for the president! We will re-apply proposal No. 26 to a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1152	That's fine!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1155	I had actually not intended to speak in this debate, because I have received a budget where the committee has not moved on to a waste. So I'm very happy. But the representative Olsen challenges me about the threat training. I think that the year we're in now will be a brand year for the Norwegian Church. This year, the Storting has agreed to a historical threat training reform. This case is about how we who live today are going to bring on to new generations the rich cultural and artefact we've been given to administer. Providing a safe place for children and young people is important in meeting new and emerging cultures. And if we're safe in our own, we can also safely meet other cultures and religions. But we don't know our own faith, our own tradition and our own stand, we become uncertain about what's different and what's ahead. I will not reiterate these perspectives or argue again for the value of truss training, but note that the Church has been heard by government and magnificence, and that the efforts in this area have now been well guided for many years to come. Through the 2004 draft budget, the Government has proposed that 2004 be the start-up year of the multi-year reform period in the context of threat training. I am very pleased that the majority in the Committee are agreeing to this important effort in the draft budget. The church sounds, the voluntary workers in the Church, the elected church organs and the church councils at all levels in the Church, the priests, the catechists, the deacons and everyone else in the Church are now ahead of a common and great task of developing and facilitating the training of trust so that the goal of the reform can be achieved. The Church Council has facilitated the further development of training, in line with the signals given by both the Government and the Storting in the debate. In recent years, there has also been a lot of discussion about the economy in the Church. One thing that I want to do, and that is to give the Church a better economy, is that we have arranged for one to give tax-free gifts to the Church. It will thus be a better economic basis for the daily work around our church sounds. It's not in our budget, but there's still an economic stake in the church area. That's why, in the agreement with the Workers' Party, we agreed to cut something to the council, because we know that there's more money inside of the tax-free gifts that can give a good activity around our church sounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1170	I take the floor because the representative Lyngstad rightly asked me how I would follow up the Sem declaration especially in relation to the youth class, which I forgot to include in my main post. I'm trying to follow up the Sem statement on all the major issues, and one of them is increasing hours. I like the Working Party so much that they are now involved in increasing the number of hours. The Labour Party has not done so since the early 1990s, but it is in the government party's programmes. It has been in the Right Programme for all years. It's in the Sem Declaration. The first thing we did when we got into the government offices in 2002 was to increase the number of hours by 3 hours. Now it has to be increased in 2004 and 2005, perhaps then. It depends on what kind of escalating size adds up to. As far as youth is concerned, the Sem Declaration also mentions that this step should be strengthened in particular. Here I think there are several things. First of all, it is very important, the Quality Committee, so to speak, has had a mandate and mission – which we come back to – to create the whole and the connection between childhood and youth and further education. It's itself a challenge to make it more meaningful in youth. Secondly, I think we have a double challenge with regard to the content of youth. There we meet young people who need something more to stretch after, perhaps theoretically. However, the theoretical youth, who need more practical challenges — either more practical subjects or more practice into the theoretical disciplines, so as to keep their motivation up, also for further education. It is a challenge for teachers to develop their skills. There are several teachers who want and need depression to get into a sufficient number of study points, which is desirable when teaching at such a high level. I think it is a challenge with more differentiated forms of work, of course adapted to training, but differentiated forms of work in any case – to mention something. A third thing that is stated in the Sem Declaration – to the Blackevik representative – is that we would like to manage the economy in a way that is stable, secure and predictable for households, for jobs and for the public sector. Then you can always draw out one budget line and say it doesn't make the big difference. But that's exactly the point of being in government, taking full responsibility and looking at the entire budget. What is good this year is that the budget we have presented works well for the economy, and the changes are so moderate that they do not disturb that picture. Then there have been questions here whether you've turned the budget to the right or the left. Let me put it this way: my assessment is that the weakness of the budgetary agreement – to use such an expression – is that to some extent problems are being pushed ahead by drawing on the reserves in the budget for unforeseen events and events. If it's the right triangle to be a little careful for the unexpected that appears, I think those who belong to the Right and the Government, well can stand by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1187	I did not intend to take the word several times, but it is the Council of Churches that makes me say something. I share her joy that we get tax exemptions for gifts to the Church. But basing the Church's operation on that I think is very defensive. I have been employed as a minister in Health, where half my salary was financed on the service of faithful members of the congregation around. But I thought we were going to have a slightly more offensive idea in relation to the church economy than we're going to demand that even more of those who are active churchgoers give even more to solve the problems that the Church has. The Church in Norway is, in fact, poor in relation to other Nordic churches. That's probably what the government council knows about. I had wanted a somewhat more offensive attitude from the Council of Churches in relation to the church economy. I find it very regrettable that the increase to the Joint Councils adopted in the revised budget is not being continued and that the grant to the Joint Councils now in the budget agreement has actually been reduced by another 5 million. kr. This does not contribute to improving the economy of the local church.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1196	Vidar Bjørnstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1199	I'm not going to continue the debate on Right-Treatment or not, but just say that we in the Labour Party have at least got through to a lot of important things for us. We've wanted to reduce the right turn. In the case of class thimmet, we also have that in our program. There's nothing that has suddenly appeared here and now in connection with the conciliation. The second was Rolf Rikvam, who thought that there was something about my ability to understand the SV's position in private schools. I think we disagree. SV assured the majority that it now says that it should be 85 pst. on a municipality-specific basis, which shall be 100 pst. the coverage of pension costs. It says SV, according to the description of Reikvam here now, still inside, even though they have reduced, but they have reduced because they believe that the basis provided by the Council of State is too high and that they can thus save money.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1208	I hope the representative of the Church does not understand me so that I have said that we will base the operation of the Church only on gifts from those who are members and active churchgoers. To explain to the system when tax-free gifts are involved, it is that those who give now can give more, because they get the benefit of it, and then it is the state that is involved in this and subsidizes the Church. I think it's good that we can stimulate the giver service. I think a lot of us could have given even more than what we're doing, because we have that line, each of us. What I think is very good is that the Skjäla is standing here on the speaker's chair and saying that we need to have a more offensive hold. I had almost hoped that SV would also take me for this cut of 5 million. kr to Kyrkja, because then we could get the record that they are against it, of course – we don't risk them taking it to the next year or the year after that, as they did two years ago. Then they cut the church budget a lot more than what we've done now, because they were in the negotiations and were going to get something. That's what's cloud. When we sit in positions and negotiate with a party to get a budget at port, and we have to have $5 billion on the table to get it done, everyone has to contribute something. One of the suggestions for cut that I made was a cut of 5 million. kr to the Church, which was accepted by the Workers' Party. Then I have to stand for it as well, and that's how all the government councils had to contribute when we were to have 5 billion kroner on the table. It's now the reality for us who are responsible. The Labour Party has been responsible this time, and the government parties have been involved. When the Center Party and SV were involved and took responsibility in the committee two years ago, the cut to Church was much larger than what we have today. But now we've been proved that it won't happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1217	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1259]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1233	This is the third budgetary procedure we have during this year. It's something new in many ways. One year ago, when we dealt with the corresponding case, the majority in Stortinget tried to transfer appropriations to a post where there was under-use, to student homes. Then we had a cruel lot of mouths. There were no limits to how bad it was. There were no limits to how we broke the regulation, etc., etc. The new thing now, and one thing to be aware of, is that the Government itself is proposing new items in this regrouping proposition. I can mention three examples. First of all, they're proposing to grant $10 million. kr to a diving watch at a school, a proposal that was not included in the budget. It is true that the SV put forward proposals to this effect when we dealt with the budget a year ago, but we were voted down. It was also not included in the revised budget, but it is now coming. This means that it comes at the same time as the 2004 budget is under consideration. I understand that it's easier to grant $10 million. I'm going to add up to 10 million dollars. kr in the 2004 budget. This is in many ways a new budgetary procedure. The same applies to a brand new post, UNESCO – a great and important action. If it were to be right in relation to the budget regulation – we had a terrible deal last year because we did wrong things – this should actually have been included in the budget for 2004. I see clearly that it is more difficult to find room for this in a tight budget, where it will be cut. We support these proposals. We think it is important measures and important proposals, but then we must also be free and allowed, in the same way as the Government, to conduct budgetary proceedings in relation to the regrouping proposal. We have done so with a small proposal that supports a project, Protevs, at the University of Bergen, where SV and the Progress Party stand together to grant 10 million. to equity. It's also an old proposal that we've been up and down again. We have asked the Minister of Fisheries to do something about it, which he consistently refuses to do. So we have to do it now. Just as the Minister of Education takes his watch, we take Protevs now, i.e. at the last budgetary procedure in 2003. But this is a cross of thought, and in my opinion we should at least be aware of what we're doing, and have a relationship with it. Then that's what goes to private schools. It's been under-consumption of 185 million. kr. It's over 10 pst. of the budget that we're not using. The majority of the ministry is looking at whether the figures on the basis of which the draft budget is based are really good enough. When 10 pst. are not used because there are not enough applicants — there are not enough students starting in private schools — there is reason to see if this is a good form of budgeting. That means you've reduced 185 million. kr, which we could have had at our disposal one year ago, when we made our priorities. We're asking for a look at the surface material. That's one of the reasons why we find that we can cut this line for 2004 in our budget. Now I come to the problematic and what's special. That's that one also suggests using $25 million. SEK of this under-consumption of a pension contribution. It's going to be double accounting. The grant to private schools is based on a normal rate that is based on the amount of public spending on their schools, i.e. 85 pst. of what the public uses to run their schools. Private school expenditure is completely uninterested in the amount of grants they receive. It's based on how much public spending for public school, and then they get covered 85 pst. It's the 2001 figures that are being taken into account. They are adjusted for 2002, and then adjusted for expected price developments and wage developments in 2003. Then you get the normal cost, which forms the basis for what private schools will get. Then, during 2003, we discovered that public schools have increased pension expenditure for their employees, and that is estimated at a certain number of millions of dollars. Once – more or less automatically – you add 85 pst. of the increased cost incurred by public schools. But this is going to be wrong. It's going to be wrong because we don't know if this results in increased costs in public schools, or if public schools have to save in other ways. So in total we don't know if this turns out to be an increased normal rate. And yet you add it, and it's going to be double accounting. We can't agree to that. We point out that we can't go into this way of doing it, and that's what our proposal says. I'm going to ask the government to think thoroughly about what they're really doing, because we're operating on a normal rate. Then one starts mixing the cards in relation to increased expenditure for the municipal sector and the county sector, while we don't know if these will turn into increased costs for the public school. So this is going to be double accounting, as I said, and we have very strong concerns about that. We are an honest and honest party, so we have problems with double accounting. I then take up the SV proposal in the position on which we stand alone, and the proposal on which we are associated with the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1254	The representative Rolf Rikvam has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1257	With regard to the points of view in this case, I refer to the description and reasoning of Rikham. In this case, we agree on private schools. I would like to mention the proposal from the Labour Party and the Central Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1264	The representative of Vidar Bjørnstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1267	I would like to address the proposal by the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, as well as mention the content of the vote. First of all, I would like to point out that the representative Rolf Requam is very much right when he now links the thread between the matter we have just completed, which is a new budgetary procedure for the coming year, and the matter we are now dealing with, which is the final reading of the budget that we were dealing with a year ago, and which concerns the current calendar year. In a very clear way – almost unequivocally – we have demonstrated that we have three budgetary procedures, and that there are completely different rules relating to the third and last budgetary procedure than to the first two. That is why I would like to return for a moment to what I was striving for when it came to the vocational schools, where there is a doubt that in a new budget, in a new calendar year, it is simply impossible – if it is a parliamentary expression – to do something with one framework, because this goes beyond the whole. Here we have now been demonstrated in budgetary procedure No. 3 – which is carried out by an old method, balancing post for post, and it is not gross of a frame age, but really free of charge – that it is quite possible to get things done. It is fully possible, as the Government itself does, to introduce new measures. That possibility must, of course, exist for the opposition as well. This option has been used by the Advance Party and SV in the case of 10 million. kr to the company Protevs. It has a special reason, because it is a matter which actually goes back more than two fiscal years, which has been repeated in two budgets with comments and calls, and which is pursued between two budgetary procedures through both questions and interpellence in the United Kingdom. The answers have not been good, and the results have not come. We in the Progress Party are particularly sorry that the Labour Party here is not included in this 10 million. kr, which is a small amount in relation to the additions of the Workers' Party in other contexts, in the hospital sector and on the capital injection to State companies. We have notes on the automatic allocation of certain items. Like a year ago, as we've pointed out, Cape gets. 221 Primary School Item 65 Supplements to training for linguistic minorities in primary school an addition this year too. Then it's automatic. There are no questions asked. This is where 119 million will be allocated. kr more. Like the SV representative, we are critical of some very large deviations in the budgets. It also applies to private schools. Had it been possible, we would of course have made the unused amount transferable. That's not possible. We believe, on the other hand, that there are good reasons why there has been a lower consumption this year. It has, among other things, long duration of treatment — and there is still a long duration of treatment, almost half a year — in the department. There has been a great deal of uncertainty and uncertainty about the new law on independent schools and their financing. At least it can help explain that there may have been some subdued demand. We also know that in 2004, we will have a new law – hopefully – on what we can call independent secondary schools, so that there will be an opportunity for more people to start private secondary schools. It will also affect demand in 2004. We hope, then, that the ministry will be just as quick to rectify the framework if it turns out that the framework in the 2004 budget is not appropriate. We also see that there are significant deviations in the budget estimates of the Loan Fund. They are broadly all estimates, but there are considerable differences between the budget and what is now being adjusted for. There is therefore reason to point out that it is necessary to look at how these estimates are initially made. When the Progress Party is concerned about it, it is because we have previously been given the estimates as exact science. Two budgets ago, we had a big debate with the Ministry about the cost of extending the grant scheme, the extended grant scheme for students who came into the budget for 2002. Then there were strong claims that there were exact calculation methods and exact science to figure out what the costs would be on these estimates. We now have this confirmed in this budget that it is not at all. So there's room for interpretation and calculation for people other than the department as well, even for opposition politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1284	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1287	A brief comment also from us in the Christian People's Party. What the new age shows for private schools is that the estimates on which we adopted the budget have not been taken into account. That's 10 pst. deviation. This makes it worth a closer look at the evidence that has been available in relation to the budgetary procedure. But the government cannot be criticized for doing anything wrong now. The government has done the only thing right, presented this openly to the Storting and taken the consequence of the recent ageing of the estimates that have not kept pace. Adjustments are made in the budget. That's not the first time it happens. I would also like to point out that perhaps Stortinget is the one who is most eager to make changes in the ejaculation, cf. a decision of NOK 3 billion in the provision for State power and SEK 360 million. to hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1296	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1285]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1312	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1299]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1320	We are now ready to go to voting in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e1327	During the debate, 26 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 3–25, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, on the proposals No. 2 and 26, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 26, from the Socialist Left Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government assess how to secure and continue the MiniStorting role-play as Strand secondary school in cooperation with the Education and Information Service at Stortinget. The game is an important democracy training project and Stortinget asks the Government to assess whether the game should be entered in the budget with its own entry.’.» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e4999	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 and proposals Nos. 3–25, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. Proposal No. 1 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e8924	The vote will be taken at the next voting time on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e12581	The President expects the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e12609	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, proposal No. 2, by Vidar Bjørnstad on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 3, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen Proposal No. 4, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, is being raised to vote. The proposal reads as follows: «Cape.PostDestinationsCroner221Grunningskolan66Assistances to clay school education, may be carried over, granted by 90 300 000281Universities and higher education institutions common expenditure 1Operating expenditure, increased by 9 736 000 from NOK 433 132 000 to NOK 442 868 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e12693	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: «Cape.PostDestinationsCrones240Private schools, etc.70Contributions, reduced by 185 600 000from NOK 1 811 356 000 to NOK 1 629 256 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e12744	Proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.Post PurposeCrones240Private schools, etc.70Contributions, reduced by 183 100 000from NOK 1 811 356 000 to NOK 1 638 256 000» The President assumes that the Workers' Party and the Centre wish to support the proposal in a subsidiary manner. – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e12797	Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Simonsen, are addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: «Cape.PostDestinationsCroner281Common expenditure on universities and colleges61 Contributions to equity of the company Protevs AS, granted at 10000000» [[New]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e13800	The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-12.ana.ud1489e13905	There is no record.
