ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e30	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament on Wednesday and Thursday – and will consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e35	I suggest Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e40	Mr. Finn Martin Vallersnes is proposed as President-in-Office of the Council. – Other proposals are not available, and Finn Martin Vallersnes is considered unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting on Wednesday and Thursday.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e63	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Odd Einar DørumState Council Einar Steensnässtaatsrådet Ansgar Gabrielsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e82	What we experience about Norwegian shipping is that the cream is being sold out of the country. Bergesen has been sold to World-Wide Shipping, which is Hong Kong-based Canadian Teekay, has purchased three major Norwegian shipping companies, and the actual fact is that the two largest shipping-based environments in Norway are now controlled by non-residents. The party of progress has always fought against the devastating, bad Norwegian conditions for shipping. Will recent events and the negative developments we see make the ministry willing to change its shipping policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e87	It is quite right, as the representative Hedstrøm says, that two large companies have acquired foreign ownership and have been purchased. This is the former Navion, which was in Statoil, and the second is Bergesen. I have met both the old and the new owners of these companies and asked myself a little about what the reason for this is. I do not ignore the fact that there is a divergence in the reason why it has been done and not done by those who have sold and bought in relation to what may be existing perception in some environments. I am thinking of the elements of the shipping policy that will make shipping from Norway attractive. There has been a lot of focus on the reimbursement scheme, for example: It may have had very little impact on these companies, the more emphasis is placed on the ferry companies whether they have a refund scheme or not. What's important, I think, to keep ownership of this type of business, is that we have an attitude towards facilitating Norwegian ownership. We do that by having fiscal rules that are competitive. And, not least, the element that is important in shipping is what has to do with consumption taxes, which the Skauge committee has taken up, and which the Storting will get presented with a matter in relation to. However, the main problem related to total investment in Norway and Norwegian investment abroad is the fact that in 2002 there was a historical low on foreign investment in Norway, DKK 6 billion. For each of the krone’s foreign investors invested in Norway, Norwegian companies took out the corresponding – DKK 6 billion – and invested out. So the attractiveness of investment here at home might seem a little bit smaller than the image you can get when you read the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e92	I note that Norway has been the world leader in this area. This is actually the only area where Norway can boast and say that we are the best in the world in terms of competence. I also find that the shipping companies are on full speed out of the country. Governments were involved in the tax. Taxes and charges are different in Norway and are not harmonised with the EU. It pays to own shipowners in other countries because of the killing of property taxes. There should be rapid changes here, and the Council of State has said that we should have the same competitive conditions for Norwegian companies as they do in the EU. Why, then, does he have the exception of shipping from this principle, as there is evidence of strong distortion of competition in terms of framework conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e97	Now it is often wrong to refer to the EU as such, because the EU does not have a common policy in this area, but each country has its own tax policy. What has been stressed varies greatly from country to country. There is no doubt that EU countries have much better conditions to ensure, for example, that they have national seafarers, and it is those who have much better wealth tax arrangements that make it interesting to also place shipping capital in those countries. But what I think is important is to take the starting point that the representative Hedstrom is doing. We probably have the world's most competent environment in total in shipping. What should the Norwegian strategy be to take care of it? We are now working on that, so far with all the parties in the shipping environment, in order to materialise it in a matter that I have promised to come to Stortinget over the New Year, just to ensure the continuation of the position we have in the maritime sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e104	There will be follow-up questions – Lodve Solholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e107	On 27 February, the Stortinget took a decision to introduce a net payroll scheme and to extend that scheme in relation to what was before, and that the Government would return to the Stortinget with this scheme in the revised national budget. So do we feel that at the Justice National Meeting, Finance Minister Per-Kristian Foss says that he does not intend to come back to the Stortninget with this in revision, and then the question is: Does the Government now act to take a rematch in the Stortinget on this matter, and does he not consider to follow up a plural decision in the Stortninget when it relates to the net payroll scheme, which was made on February 27 this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e112	The reimbursement scheme is a very important element for having Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships. We're using between 500 and 600 million today. kr, as far as I remember. It is the largest amount used since the start of the subsidisation of Norwegian seafarers. The size has decided the arrangements for what we have disagreed on between the parties, not only in the last few years, but so far throughout the 1990s. It is also right, as the representative says, that a decision was taken in Stortinget on 27 February on a new device and an extension of the scheme, and the Government was required to come back to the revised national budget to sign this out. So ask the representative if we intend to follow up that decision in the revised version, and refer to what the Minister of Finance has said at the National Meeting of the Right. I have to refer to what the Minister of Finance will say in Stortinget on 15 May regarding the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e120	Olav Akselsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e123	It should not be so difficult to confirm that the Government will follow up a decision by a majority in Stortinget, especially since this is a matter where the government party was the parties most promised in the election campaign. But I'm glad that the Minister of Industry now confirms that the arrangements we have today are very important, and what we should be aware of is that the Government actually decided to remove the arrangements that are already in place. Now, if you want a different device in these questions, the government has stopped the Storting from getting that possibility, because it was actually a conundrum that asked the Government to come back with a case in the course of the last year, so that one could discuss the device. It is such that in the light of developments in our neighbouring country, it became clear that Norwegian seafarers became 40 pst. more expensive. There was a great flagging out and a great danger to Norwegian workplaces when Norwegian fleet teams were flagged out. Will the Minister for Economic Affairs not now help to remove this insecurity once and for all?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e128	No one has ever tried to refute the claim that, in order to keep Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships, it is important that we subsidise, so that costs are lower. The question that is probably now being raised in the maritime environment is to what extent it is necessary to subsidise in order to maintain the core of the competence needed to achieve the objective of the representative Hedstroms, namely that Norway should be a strong maritime nation. Then there will be a question of whether there are 5,000 or 10,000 or 15 000 or 50,000 Norwegian seafarers we need to meet it. But as I said in my previous answer, we have to make an overall assessment of all the decisions the Stortinget has made, because the Stortinget has adopted several things that, in total, may seem to conflict with what I know the majority of people are concerned about, namely to maintain a sound economic policy based on the rule of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e133	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e136	I believe that if we are to keep Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships, one of the most important things is that we also have Norwegian owners in the shipping industry. If you are going to recruit Norwegian seafarers, you are going to use Norwegian equipment suppliers either for navigation or other things, I think it is a prerequisite that we have Norwegian owners both in shipping and in other business. I then want to challenge the Minister of Industry for his view of how important it is that we have strong Norwegian ownership of the business community, and what kind of grip the Minister of Industry will take to ensure that we continue to have strong Norwegian national ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e141	There's no doubt about it as St.meld. No 22 for 2001-2002 on ownership begins with the importance of facilitating private Norwegian ownership. But if you're going to do that, you're going to have to do some kind of action that contradicts what the Center Party has stood for. When a ownership policy is called for in order to make it interesting to invest in Norway, many elements are included, and not least on the tax side is crucial. The crucial thing, as far as I have understood the shipping area, is the taxation of wealth. We are a different country when it comes to the taxation of wealth in shipping, which we know is very mobile. You can move on Friday and start on Monday. However, there is no doubt that it is true that it has been very important historically that Norwegian shipowners have taken Norwegian equipment suppliers out of the country, and that in fact Norwegian shipyards, Norwegian equipment suppliers and Norwegian shipowners in total are at the core of what is the Norwegian maritime cluster.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e146	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e149	I have a question for the Minister of Energy. Norwegian power supply has always been dominated by strong public ownership by local and state authorities. It has been important to expand the power supply and secure light and heat throughout the country. Today, public ownership is important in power supplies for two reasons in particular. One is that it ensures the community in relation to the additional revenues associated with the management of natural resources, and in particular hydropower. It is the property of the community and the income should benefit the community. The second main reason for public ownership of power supply is that it contributes to national ownership. This is particularly true of municipal ownership, which has been decisive, but of course it is also true of state ownership. Public ownership is important to ensure Norwegian companies with head offices, strategic decisions, in Norway, and we avoid becoming a branch country in the energy sector as well. My question is: does the Minister of Energy agree with these assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e158	I agree with both the two reasons given by the representative Stoltenberg for a long-term Norwegian ownership of the power industry. Hafslund, which is the current background to the issue, is a significant player in the power market. They have a medium energy production of 2.9 TWh. They have 600,000 power customers, and they have 500,000 network customers. In other words, it is interesting in relation to the desire for strong national ownership that Hafslund is still anchored in a Norwegian ownership. That is why, in the opinions I have given, I have also recommended that the Municipality of Oslo take a closer look at this case in order to assess the second point that the representative of Stoltenberg made, namely the benefit of having in his portfolio a company that can provide stable, predictable income in the future. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the management of the power industry takes place primarily through state regulations, concessional, regulatory and legislative. That's where we anchor how our hydropower resources are to be managed. But ownership is, of course, an important part of this strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e167	I agree with everything the Minister of Energy says, and therefore my follow-up question goes to the Minister of Industry: Does the Minister of Industry agree with the Minister of Energy that public ownership of the power sector is important in order to ensure national ownership and to secure revenue? And in particular, does the Minister of Industry agree with the Minister of Energy when he has on several occasions urged the Municipality of Oslo to stop the sale of Hafslund shares?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e174	The President notes that this evolves towards a representative survey.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e178	That's required!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e183	The President is right about that. There was also no shock card experience that the question would be shared. The main question to Stoltenberg is whether I share the Minister of Energy's view of what the Municipality of Oslo should do and should not do in the situation in question. Then my answer is what I tend to say when I'm asked what the Minister of Industry thinks Hydro should do, what others should do, that it's not my responsibility to advise others on what they should do with their own money, including municipalities in terms of ownership. You can't ignore the fact that it makes sense, and you can't ignore the fact that it can't be reasonable. There may have been new owners who would be better able to develop it in a better way, but there may also be new owners who develop it in a worse way. I do not need to guide in particular neither the municipality of Oslo nor other Norwegian companies in what they should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e192	There will be three follow-up questions, first Sylvia Brustad. It's going to be exciting to see what state councils are asking questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e195	My follow-up question goes to State Council Steensnæs. It is very interesting to note the disagreement that is now in the Government, where the Minister of Industry will not give advice, while the Minister of Energy will give advice. The last thing I think is good, because the winter power crisis with the sky-high current bills has shown us that we need more control in this area, and not less, as the Right obviously is concerned about. It might be interesting to clarify what is the real attitude of the government. So here it's talking to two tongues. I think it is good that the Christian People's Party engages in this matter. It's going to be interesting to see if it's followed up from the party traps in Oslo. But at the same time, the Steensnæs and the Christian People's Party have helped to oblige State Power to sell out, among other things. to Hedmark Energie, who can also now risk getting on foreign hands – despite the fact that the Christian People's Party has previously held a different position in this matter. My question to the State Council Steensnæs is: Why do Christian People's Party and Government run double accounting in energy policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e206	Let me first warn you that a warehouse is a simple connection when it comes to what the representative Brustad calls the power crisis in winter, and the high power prices we have, in relation to ownership. There is no simple context in this, simply because the power market we are now operating in is a mature power market. However, in winter, weaknesses in the mechanisms governing the power market have been clearly revealed. That is why I have informed the Stortinget that I want to provide a message where we look at the market mechanisms, so that we ensure the country the necessary energy supply at acceptable prices both for government, for industry and for private households. But anyone who is to be an actor in this market, regardless of ownership – private, public or foreign – has to deal with what the regulator decides. That's where we also run the market and how it will move. So... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e213	It's not access to it. On the other hand, there is access for Øystein Djupedal to ask follow-up questions to the state council he may wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e216	Listening to the Gabrielsen State Council, you can see why Norwegian business is struggling, because the inaction in the management of ownership that Gabrielsen here actually makes up for is quite alarming. The government is schizophrenic in the matter of Hafslund. In the same way that Carl I. Hagen is unable to figure out what he really means, neither does the government know what it really means. It is interesting to note that Steensnæs and Gabrielsen disagree with such an important infrastructure issue and such an important question for the nation of Norway. Hafslund is far more than just a company in Oslo; Hafslund is in many ways the symbol of what is behind the emergence of Norwegian value creation and Norwegian industry, namely the ownership of the power sector. It's interesting to note that in today's World Gang, the two councils of state argue so busty. Gabrielsen performs to say that «Norway lies to the left of China in state ownership». It's a funny point formulation. But what's interesting is what Steensnæs says: «Isn't it going» – that is, that Oslo settles this with ownership – «Can we evaluate other solutions». My challenge to Steensnæs is: What other state national solutions is Steensnæs want? He'll be supported by us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e225	The President will deposit that, to the best of his knowledge, schizophrenia is a condition that occurs only in individuals, and is difficult to distribute to more.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e228	It's quite possible, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e233	Let me just make it clear that as Vice-President of the Christian People's Party and Minister of Energy, I have gone out with clear advice to the Municipality of Oslo and to my own party, not to be taken as an expression of disagreement in the Government on this matter. First, I would like to say that a state solution is not the closest solution we want to take. Firstly, I would like to see it as most interesting, most natural and simple that Oslo Municipality retains its holdings in Hafslund. If it really becomes a sale, which today is very open according to the signals you get, there are other solutions than the state entering. There may be capital in the power industry that is profited from investing in a company as profitable as Hafslund. I guess I can trigger an initiative. There is also Norwegian capital outside the power industry, because this is a safe, good investment, which should be interesting. That the state can come in, I will not take a decision today. The country already owns large shares in Norwegian power generation, and other solutions may be available that are more appropriate. It is also in line with the Government's ownership message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e240	Last follow-up questions – Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e244	I have a question for the Minister of Energy. The Minister of Energy knows very well that since the change in concession law, public ownership, municipal and state ownership is the only way to ensure national ownership. This has been the case in the power sector in the last five to six years, as is the case in the future. The Hafslund case illustrates how difficult it will be to secure national ownership. We can experience the paradoxical situation that Swedish or Finnish state capital buys into Norwegian hydropower resources. The question that remains after the round we have had here is: What is the current government's strategy in terms of ensuring national ownership in the hydropower sector, not only in relation to Hafslund, but also in relation to the sales that come from the fact that State power has to sell itself in the hydropower sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e251	The main question that Arnstad's representative asks is how we can secure national control of our natural resources. We ensure that through legislation, the concession authority and not least the proposal made by the Government, that no matter who owns, whether it is the state, the municipalities, private or foreign companies, all of this will apply to the State free of charge after 75 years. The representative of Arnstad, who has also been the Minister of Energy and administered the Energy Act, knows that Norway is part of a Nordic power market, where we also have links to Europe. Norwegian capital invests more than foreign capital invests at home. So we're participants in a Nordic power market. Does what Arnstad's representative now say means that she will refuse Statkraft to go out and invest in the Nordic power market? Because that's the consequence of what she says about that, for example. a Finnish company as part of a Nordic power market wishes to invest in Norway. It must be reciprocity if this power market is to function.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e258	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e261	I have a question for the Council of State Gabrielsen. The size has a long and good tradition of providing public ownership and control of hydropower. Since 1910 this has been handled mainly wisely and sensibly by the Norwegian Storing. The country's second-largest player has been State Power, which today owns about 50 pst. of all hydropower in Norway and with a value of a total of 60 000 million. kr. Now we know that there are plans to convert Statkraft into a limited liability company. And based on all the experience gained from previous transformations into a limited liability company, there are some points that go further, namely that you start to privatize and privatize fully. That is something we in SV will also fear if we turn State power into a corporation, that in the next round we move to partial privatisation and privatisation. My question to the Council of State Gabrielsen is therefore as follows: Will the Council of State Gabrielsen guarantee that in the future he and the Right do not intend to sell all or part of Statkraft?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e272	Now it is not up to me, as Minister of Industry, to issue guarantees on behalf of the Right. And I think it'll be hard, no matter who you have to ask in any party, to get someone else for any future to issue a guarantee. What's important is that we adapt it to the reality we're always surrounded by, and that we don't make a picture of something that once was, and then try to adapt to it. It's about having a map that matches the landscape you're in. It is therefore the case that for ten years now we have had liberalisation in this market, which has worked to a great extent for Norwegian consumers because they have had lower prices during this period. It is difficult to imagine anything else, and I have not heard any particular debate related to this fact either. In the case of Statkraft, it's a 100 pst. state-owned company, whether organised as a State enterprise or a limited liability company. The government has announced that it is working on a conversion to an AS with regard to Statkraft. It is in Stortinget's hands whether you want to convert it into an AS and whether you want to make a Statoil model with a possible partial privatisation. We have expressed in the ownership message what we think about these things. We have said that it may be relevant with industrial actors along with State Power. We have also said that we see it as natural that private capital is more likely to enter such a company to the extent of expanding beyond Norway, because we have reached a limit on what the competition authorities can accept in terms of the dominant role of State power, so that Norwegian consumers do not receive even higher electricity bills. I don't think Norwegian consumers accept higher power bills because politicians are supposed to sit and control this. But no guarantee on behalf of the Right issuer I do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e281	I thank you for your answer. I record that there is no guarantee, but is there in this government and in today's Right discussed the possibility that in the future perhaps you should sell Statkraft? Is it discussed in the Council's office or other places that there is an opportunity that should be open when the guarantee cannot come? Does the Council of State find it problematic to be the owner of State power? Does the Council of State consider it important for Norwegian society to safeguard in a way the tradition started by Johan Castberg – which stands as a bust outside the Council of State hall – to preserve Norwegian resources in a good and sensible way? Does Gabrielsen feel that it is important that he, as Minister of Industry, responsible for the State, further preserve that tradition for the benefit of the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e288	Castberg's and Knudsen's legacy are heavy traditions to put on their shoulders. I feel a great responsibility to manage the holdings for which the Ministry of Economic Affairs is responsible, whether it is in State power or in other companies. The representative asked if I thought it was problematic to have the ownership of Statkraft. Of course I don't think so. Similarly, I think it is entirely unproblematic to manage the ownership of IT fornebu, although I did not think it was a good idea when it was established. My job is to manage the ownership I have at all times, for the benefit of the shareholders. The participants in Statkraft are the seventh and last of all the Norwegian people, and then it is not for the sake of special politicians, nor for the sake of industry, nor for the sake of individuals or individual environments, but for the sake of those who are shareholders, namely the Norwegian people, that it is also my job to make proposals when I think it is necessary to make changes to what was once. Although Castberg and others had good ideas almost a hundred years ago, we don't have to get involved in national romance when we're going to develop a policy for the future, whether it's Statkraft or other companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e295	There will be follow-up questions – Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e298	My follow-up question goes to State Council Steensnæs and connects with an agreement that the Christian People's Party was in on in 2001, when we added SEK 6 billion to Statkraft. Christian People's Party supports this. The requirement to do this was for ownership to remain firm – the same would be the case with the Home Office. Now we know that ESA is pressing when this is the case. My question to Steensnæs – in connection with the fact that the Christian People's Party now expresses the wish that the state should possibly take over some axes in Hafslund – is whether it is such to understand that one then has gone away from the privatisation line that the Government has stood for in relation to State Power. Does the Christian People's Party now want a strong public at State power?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e305	State power will be and has been an important instrument for the exercise of Norwegian power policy. But it's not like all the eggs should be placed in the same curve. Christian People's Party and I, as Minister of Energy, see the value of having a complex portfolio of companies that can exercise ownership in the Norwegian power industry. Therefore, it is important that both municipalities, county councils, the state and what may be of private interest are involved. There are no plans for the sale of State power, as indicated here, but of course any situation needs to be assessed on the basis of what is appropriate and the goal of the Government's energy supply policy, namely to supply this country with power for all purposes in relation to what is needed and at acceptable prices. In that work, Statkraft is an important player, and it is important that we also equip State Power with the necessary weight in this market in order to be competitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e310	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e314	I have an additional question for the Minister of Food and Trade. In the VG today, the minister, quite rightly as a tip formulation, says that Norway is on the left of China in state ownership. If we see Statoil, Hydro's oil and energy division, State power and hydropower resources in an overall context, Norway should today be a major force and develop competencies and jobs a lot in Norway. It should have been a challenge for the Government. But Norway has a very weak industrial infrastructure. We have lost a number of businesses out of the country: Dyno, Hydro Seafood, Hafslund, Nycomed, Freia – and now also on the shipping side. Doesn't the Council of State think that we should now think alternately? The Progress Party has proposed a Structural Fund to maintain valuable Norwegian values in Norwegian hands. What is the Government's prescription to replace all the industrial jobs that are being lost, probably 60,000 before 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e321	The President will note that the supplementary question has a somewhat distant connection with the main question. But the council has to answer, if he wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e324	I'm very happy about that. When I in the VG pointed it out that we are at the left of the Chinese in ownership policy, I have to say that it was the idea that struck me when I was with the Prime Minister of China a year ago and met Chinese state councils that were engaged in partial privatisation/competition as we are doing. When I read the dry figures, I haven't found anything other than pure communist regimes that have a larger government share in business than we have in Norway – about. 40-50 pst. So it's just a representation, it's actually not an acute formulation even. Those are naked facts. I cannot understand with my best will that people in the Advancement Party, who at some point develop some reasonable thoughts, have completely collapsed. It was uplifting that at least there was one in the central government of the Progress Party who kept the sense of industrial policy, and it was one who was a professional economist. I would really recommend listening to Norwegian Investor Forum to a lesser extent and listening to professional economists. Because what's definitely going on is that if we're going to continue buying from the state's side of Norwegian business in general – and now I'm not talking about Hafslund – we can't buy more than 100 pst., and now we own almost half. In other countries, there are between 5 pst. and 7 pst. And that someone can imagine that in 20 years' time it's a stronger competitive business in Norway because the state and the politicians own it, it's completely incomprehensible to me. That Djupedal and SV are there, I understand, but that Hedstrom should fall there, I would never have believed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e329	This got really healthy. The Council of State Gabrielsen should not take it for granted that there is a cross between each supplementary question, so he should be prepared to answer the next follow-up question as well. Olav Akselsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e336	The Minister of Economic Affairs will probably have to come back to the pulpit again, because my question goes to him. I feel that this debate above all shows that the Right does not have a strategy for how to keep companies on Norwegian hands. It is primarily a matter of state terror – it is therefore better for foreigners to own them than for the Norwegian state to do so, even though these foreigners are our neighbouring countries. It has always been clear that the Right wants to sell State Power. Today, the government has no strategy for how Statkraft can proceed. What we're experiencing is that Statkraft doesn't get capital on its own, they don't get to raise capital from private people, and one takes 90 pst. exchange, while we know that both Swedish and state companies before this singer has a good economy. The German energy giant Eon has the same amount of money on the book as the one in the oil fund. This is the money they intend to raise in Northern Europe and not least in Norway. My question is whether one of the government's intentions is to ensure that our large energy company has the opportunity to have an economy that allows them to participate in the power companies that are on sale in Norway. Or should a person leave this to foreigners while Statkraft only becomes a dairy when the state budget is to be put together?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e347	You draw an image that's completely incorrect. The idea that foreign investors are in line to invest in Norway is thus a total bombing. In 2002, which is the last year we have, it was historically low on foreign investment in Norway, it was 6 billion, while Norwegian companies invested 43 billion dollars abroad. And the kind of debate we have here is, in my opinion, the greatest danger in relation to foreign investment in Norway. But not only that, there is also a danger that Norwegian investors are afraid that the politicization will be so total that they will continue with what they have started, namely to invest in all countries other than Norway. So it's amazing what Akselsen's representative might say, he who himself part-privatized and sold out tens of billions of dollars in Statoil, tens of billions in Telenor, Norsk Medisinaldepot to foreign owners, Arcus, Raufoss and all the way. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e354	The question concerned Statkraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e359	I did not get the time to answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e364	Time is out in any circumstance. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e369	I have a question for the Minister of Energy – it might as well have been asked to the Minister of Industry – and it's about the power sector. This round shows that the Government does not have the ability to give a clear answer on how to pursue important national economic interests in the power sector. We live in a Nordic market, and unlike Norway, state power companies in Sweden, Finland, Germany, are given the opportunity to safeguard their national interests in the power market. I don't think that either Finnish or Swedish view it as national romantic, but on the contrary as an opportunity to preserve important economic values that cannot be calculated through short-term current value considerations. The Minister of Energy knows that in reality there will be foreign interests that will enter the power sector if it is now opened up – in Hafslund, in Trondheim Energia, in HEAS, in ECO. And my question is simply: is there any strategy in this government to ensure national ownership in the power sector at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e380	Yes, the Government – primarily by using both the possibilities offered by the concessions, what is involved in regulation, and what is involved in long-term national control, namely the fall-back. Making sure that in any case, the state is given the opportunity to assess how our hydropower resources will be disposed of in the future is crucial. And now there is a proposal from the Government that anyone who owns hydroelectric power in Norway today has to return this to the state free of charge after 75 years. That's what's important. Then I have also said that national ownership in the power sector is important, not least because of the need for long-termity in the power market and because Norwegian owners in a completely different way on important issues will be able to balance and balance environmental and nature considerations against production. It is important that we have a long-term ownership of this power industry, and I have announced in Stortinget that at the end of the year I will come back to Stortinget with a separate message detailing further measures by the Government. Then there was something about foreign ownership of the representative Arnstad's posts that I must say I am stunned by. We know that big, important national interests have just been developed using foreign capital, both our reserves of hydropower, the aluminium industry and our petroleum industry have developed precisely because we got foreign capital in and owned this, but we kept our control constantly. So it's control of what's important. The ownership must be subject to the same mechanisms regardless of whether it is Norwegian owners or non-resident owners. But in this case that concerns Hafslund, I have therefore underlined the importance of the company in a situation where the power market is moving. [[President clubs]] That is why I have expressed myself as I have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e390	The President must ask that we respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e393	Yes, if you want to minimize the issue of national ownership, I'm a little surprised that the Minister of Energy is so concerned that Hafslund should be national owned. The Minister of Energy knows that the concession law no longer represents a buffer in relation to nationality. You know that. Governments also know that a fall-back is no buffer. The only buffer we've had in recent years is Statkraft. State power has been used to safeguard national interests, and the Council of State knows that. So now the state has to take 95 pst. dividends, and State power is required to sell down, among others. in Trondheim Energy, which is worth at least half of Hafslund. Who will be allowed to buy Trondheim Energy? Is it Vattenfall or is it Fortum? And I ask again, what is the Government's strategy in relation to the possible foreign purchases that are now coming in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e400	The President will assume that the form of appeal "you" was to be the Steensnæs Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e403	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e408	I would like to point out once again that I think that the representative Arnstad underestimates all the possibilities that governments have to regulate this market and ensure that important national interests are preserved. If any foreign ownership in Norway – regardless of sector – is to be out of place, it must mean something for what we believe Norwegian companies are investing abroad. We're in a Nordic market. We are the owners of this Nordic market. There are exchanges of ownership – cross-ownership. Should we then put a ban on that foreign, i.e. Nordic companies invest in Norway, while we should allow ourselves the freedom to invest in the rest of the Nordic countries. What kind of policy is that? What's the relationship? Just in the Nordic market, after all, we got through this winter without introducing drastic measures – which rationalisation would have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e415	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Roger Enoksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e418	My supplementary question also goes to the Minister of Energy. It is alarming to hear the way in which these two councils now argue. The Minister of Economic Affairs said in his declaration of accession that there had now been evidence of a historic sale in state holdings. As far as Statkraft is concerned, I remember that he once said that it would take a little more than ten seconds to assess whether the State should sell out of the company. When I hear the Minister of Industry's answer here today and what the Minister of Energy is now saying, it's basically going to be really shocking. There is no doubt that the state ownership of the energy supply has ensured the values of the population, and it has invested over DKK 200 billion. So now you're opening up for sale. There is no doubt that it is not possible through the concession provisions to safeguard national ownership. The Minister of Energy has nothing else to trust but to get it back free of charge after 75 years. It is known that, in the meantime, there will be historically large profits in the energy companies, as we have seen in the last year. You send the money out of the country to foreign owners. What will the Council of State do to ensure national ownership and the values of the population before the 75 years have passed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e427	Will the Council of State cause further shock damage?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e430	The representative of the Enoxene places similarities between a national ownership and a state ownership. I fundamentally disagree with that. We have good experience that both county municipalities and municipalities have been able to own and develop power plants and in a sensible way have contributed to energy production. Ensuring national control of our natural resources is important. And I have repeatedly shown that in Norway we have a long tradition of extensive regulation, both through concessions and regulations and through the provision of a fall-back. So we've secured national control. That's the basic thing. We have also said that a national ownership must be at the bottom. It has nothing to do with long-termity. That is why I have given clear advice in this specific case about Hafslund. But it's not like every time a municipality or county municipality wants to dispose of a power plant, then the state has to stand there with capital and buy it up. It would be a completely hopeless situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e439	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e442	I also have an additional question for the Minister of Energy, who has said quite correctly several times that the electricity price is now fixed in a Nordic market. We're in a Nordic market. Despite the fact that the Government believes it is a Nordic market, our competition law applies only to the Norwegian market. And that's a remarkable thing. If there is competition in the Nordic countries, you should look at the Nordic countries if you want to intervene in otherwise reasonable mergers of power plants. There is a clear need for structuralisation — with larger units — both in Norway and the Nordic region. I would like to ask the Minister of Energy whether the Government will be in favour of the concrete proposal that the Progress Party has promoted for Odelstinget, a proposal to change competition law to look at the Nordics as a market, instead of looking snugly at the Norwegian market. With such a change in the law, part of the forced sales that will now come will be stopped, because the law will then be gone. And that would make a lot of sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e455	I basically agree with Carl I. Hagen's concern: when the market is Nordic, the competitive situation should also be assessed from a Nordic perspective. Nevertheless, the need to assess such an extension of the competitive perspective is the existence of a well-functioning market. Unfortunately, the power market is not perfect and functioning. We saw that this winter. In a situation where, for very special reasons, we had too little energy production in Norway, we were also unable to provide the country with sufficient energy from other countries in the Nordic market. It came from the so-called bottleneck problem. We haven't built our web enough. The cable towards the rest of the world and in the Nordic market — in fact also between South Norway and North Norway — is not good enough. Power was exported out of North Norway and to Sweden, and then it was imported from Sweden to South Norway. There are the types of restrictions which make competition law also necessary to be seen in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e462	Sylvia Brustad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e465	My follow-up question also goes to the Minister of Energy. This round has shown very clearly that there is a heated disagreement in the Government on energy issues – even if something as important as ownership. That's the truth of this thing. We have heard the Minister of Industry say here clearly what he wants with Statkraft – an AS and that it will be smaller – while the Minister of Energy has a slightly different attitude. For the time being, the Christian People's Party has lost. In the case of State Power, the government did not take into account that we were in a Nordic market, but in a Norwegian one, when it suggested that one should sell down in relation to, for example, a Norwegian one. Hedmark Energi and now later Trondheim Energiverk. As a result, parts of these energy companies end up on foreign hands. In relation to what Steensnæs says here now, this is not at all hanging in the jump. I think it is very good that the Steensnæs – as opposed to Gabrielsen – are committed to preventing what can now happen to Hafslund. But why is Hafslund more important than, for example, Hedmark Energi and Trondheim Energiverk? Why does the Government operate with double accounting?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e474	Sylvia Brustad believes to be able to detect smoking disagreement in the Government on these issues. That's not right. As a basis for the government's policy, we have clearly outlined in the ownership communication how we want to develop a varied ownership structure in Norwegian business. It applies both in the power sector and outside the power sector. But when three different parties join a government and agree on a policy, it is clear that it also involves compromises. It should not be surprising that different views are also revealed on ownership issues. I remember very well when the National Assembly of the Workers Party discussed the privatisation of Statoil, and the significant problem that the then Minister of Energy, Olav Akselsen, had with bringing the national meeting to a sensible decision – that meant privatisation. We have a desire for strong national ownership in the power market. Sylvia Brustad asked a very timely question about what is the difference between Trondheim Energieverk and Hafslund Energie. If we continued to take over all the power plants that municipalities will dispose of, we would have a significant problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e483	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e486	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. Due to international environmental requirements, some old-technology aluminiumworks have to close parts of their production. If it is not invested in new areas, it will be very negative for the activities in question and for the communities where they are located. In the worst cases, works can be destroyed, and many hundreds of jobs will be lost. This is a piece that today goes with a large surplus. According to the President of Hydro Aluminium, the framework conditions in Norway today are so poor that such investments will not take place. You have one, for example. in Canada, everything to attract this type of investment is not done by Norwegian authorities. My question to the Minister of Industry is whether he intends to do something to improve the framework for this industry, whether he will contact the Norwegian Hydro and the communities that will be affected, or whether he will once again sit as a passive observer to the flagging out of Norwegian industrial workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e495	Apart from the additional remark at the end, there was a constructive question about what we would do in terms of environmental requirements for the aluminium industry and whether the Minister of Industry would contact Norsk Hydro. I have already talked to the works concerned, and on Friday I will visit one of these works to look at the issues that Olav Akselsen describes, and which there is every reason to look at. My general approach to environmental requirements for industry is that of course we must respect the international commitments we have. Of course, we have to make sure that we have an industry that has a positive environmental stamp, and that is the industry itself very concerned. It is clear that when you come into the situation that it is about being or not being for a work – given that you are given instructions that are strange, that no one else has, and that may result in a closure not leading to a lower consumption of aluminium, but only to production elsewhere, where you can assume that there will be even greater environmental emissions – there is absolutely reason to stop and look at this. That's why I'm going to North Norway on Friday to visit one of these works that have received environmental demands that are perceived as very heavy. I want to make it clear that the State pollution control authority is setting the requirements and has the competence to do so. But as Minister of Industry, of course, I am concerned that there is a total balance, and I want to see if there is a basis for taking initiatives on my part.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e506	I agree with the Minister of Industry that we should not impose any strange environmental requirements. But the Minister of Industry should have thought about this last year when we actually got strange environmental demands as part of the climate communication. But that's not what this question was about. The environmental requirements we're talking about here, nobody's asking questions about it. They're not strange either, they're international. It's like one has old technology that makes one have to close parts of the production. If these works are not to be significantly reduced, with a large loss of jobs, it must therefore be reinvested. Hydro is now in the final phase. They are assessing whether these works will receive the necessary investments. The signal to now is that due to the activity, among others. to Canadian authorities, which attract this type of investment, it is more likely that it will be no than yes. My clear and simple question to the Minister of Industry was whether he was going to do anything. Since he talked about everything else, I expect that he has not thought so much about his action in relation to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e515	As I said, I have received a full roll-up from Hydro in relation to the question in question. To put it mildly, I think it's a somewhat simplified conclusion to say that there's only one element to consider for Hydro about where they're going to make their investments, which they're going to start harvesting in seven years' time. As far as I remember, ten elements were included in the assessment as a standard starting point for making investments. It includes so simple, yet so serious things as what we assume the level of costs will be here in Norway, what we assume will be the availability of electricity and the availability of labour. A mass of elements is included in such an assessment. Of course, the environmental element, the pollution problem, is also part of this, and the requirements that are being imposed must be weighed. But it's a strong oversimplification to say that it's just the environmental bit that's the cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e522	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e525	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Among other things, the size of the store adopts: The frame to the police. This is done annually in the budgetary procedure. Of course, there is also the investment budget. It goes to personal protective equipment, to technical equipment and to heavier equipment, such as: vehicle. Last spring, Stortinget made a decision in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 51 for 2000-2001 on investment in a police helicopter to operate from Oslo. This re-examined the Storting during the budgetary procedure for the current year. What is in the cards is that the helicopter shall be operational from 1 September. The bidding process was initially stopped and then started again. So what the Storting has made clear is that the helicopter will be operational from 1 September this year. I would like to hear the Minister of Justice assure Stortinget that Stortinget's decision will be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e535	I know very well about Storting's handling of the matter. The knowledge that I've gained so far is that what the representative Ellingsen describes is going to keep the timetable. I have followed the case, because it has been a discussion about tenders. And of course, I want to make sure again that the knowledge I have gained holds. The store's order has been very clear. The description of what the helicopter is to be used for fighting crime and for preventing, for example: also traffic accidents have been very clear. The department has been running, but we're running through the Directorate of Police, and the information I'm now sitting with is like that. But I'm going to check it again after this question, so I can make sure that what the Storting has said and expressed, is also going to be the way it is, because it's this council opinion that the helicopter is going to be in place, and it should be operational as the Storing has described it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e540	I noticed that the Minister of Justice said it should be by decision. The conditions for the Storting are there, and I expect the Minister to follow up. Among the reasons used by the Chairman of the Management Group for this, Mikkelsen v. Oslo Police, to stop the process, are among others: that the management team wishes a new round in order to take account of a special helicopter that would be available on the market for the tenderers. Does the Minister of Justice find such a argument reasonable, namely that tenders should be tailored for one type of helicopter? Should not an overall assessment of what will be most functional in order to obtain a good and operational police helicopter service in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e547	Through the Directorate of Police I assume that the rules of the game on tenders are followed, I assume that the tenders will be functional in relation to what is to be done. That's what I have to say, and that's also what I've been told so far about this. But because there has been a debate about it and a significant interest around it, I will once again make sure that this evolves and is under the control as it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e552	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e558	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative of Ranveig Frøiland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be taken up by the representative of Olav Akssen. Question 6, from the representative of Lena Jensen to the Minister for Education and Research, will be addressed by the representative of Rolf Rekvam. Question 7, from the representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen of the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has left. Questions 11 and 12 from the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg and Berit Brørby, respectively, to the Minister for the Environment, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e577	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘The implementation of the reorganisation of the external management of the customs and tax havens is now under way. A control unit in Egersund was proposed by the Customs and Tax DG’s working group, including: background in the major fishing ports, ferry traffic and the many calls made in Jøssingfjord and Rekefjord. Can the Council of State confirm that the Customs Expedition Unit in Egersund is proposed by the Working Party?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e591	In the mention of this matter in St. Prp. No 1 for the 2002–03 budget, it was shown that developments in traffic patterns and trafficking methods have resulted in a major need to streamline and change the organisation of today’s district management on a broad scale. There is today a clear imbalance between the staffing distribution of the establishment and the division of tasks in the various parts of the country. In addition, new electronic communications solutions have led to an increasing degree of interrelationship with the business community, so one does not meet up with the disk, but one interacts electronically. 97 pst. by electronic means of all import and export declarations are being made today. The work of evaluating the new and appropriate organisation of the external administration of the customs and tax haven has been ongoing since December 2001, and the process is now in its final phase. The size will be briefed on the Government’s decision in the context of the presentation of the revised 2003 national budget now in May – 15 May. I am asking the representative Nordtun to understand that I do not think it right to go into this case on a single page before the presentation of the revised national budget, whether it be Egersund or other relevant points.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e600	I thank you for your answer. I am aware that it was St. Prp. No 1 which referred to and presented a part of the reorganization of the Directorate for Customs and Taxation. In the structure that was outlined there, Egersund was not taken out, on the contrary, Egersund was in a dispatch unit. All are familiar with the traffic in Egersund, which has Norway's largest fishing port, a very large ferry traffic – in fact more than 14 000 passed trailers in 2002 – and large boat runs in Jøssingfjord and Rekefjord. In other words, it's a lot of activity. As I perceived it, the Minister of Finance now suggested that there were opportunities for the customs unit in Egersund to be closed down. But with the great activity that is today and will remain in the future, does the Minister of Finance see it as expedient to have a mobile device that can be moved to this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e609	This is a new variation of the same question. I can and will not answer a question that I have notified to be submitted to the Storting next week. The conclusions have not yet been definitively reached. I listen as usual with great interest to Tore Nordtun's presentation and good arguments. I will take them to the matter further. The position of the Working Group and the professional position of the Customs Directorate will also be given considerable emphasis. But no conclusion has been drawn either in this or in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e616	Just briefly: I thank the Minister of Finance for the answer. We will come back to this matter again next week, in the revised – where we will then really come up with a bigger case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e624	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘The amount of compensation paid to children shall normally remain in the bank account, managed by the head office, until the latter becomes competent. If the child has parents, taxes on wealth and income are charged to them. A claim amount of 1 million. kr will result in the parents being charged an extra tax of several $10 thousand per. years. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable to charge an extra tax on parents because their children have been paid a compensation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e633	The general rule is that when a child is not aged 17 at the end of the year of income, the child is compared to the parents of his or her wealth and income under the Tax Act. It means, in practice, that the child's potential return assets are compared to the top of the wealth and income of his parents. However, parents have more opportunities to reduce the tax due to the child’s wealth. Under Section 41 of the Tax Payments Act, the tax may be reduced or remitted when it would seem particularly unreasonable to require parents to pay the entire tax. The practice of the tax authorities in applying the provision has been based on the assumption that property taxes on the compensation of children for personal injury can be reduced according to more detailed criteria. The tax on wealth and its return is then initially reduced to the amount that would have been compensated if the child had been considered independent of that wealth and its return. If the injury has led to at least 50 pst. reduced ability to acquire from the child, and the compensation is linked to this damage, there will normally not be any compensation tax on the amount of compensation at all by the parents. Furthermore, with the permission of the parent, parents may use the child's means to cover the value added tax they receive because of the child's wealth. If parents take advantage of this possibility, it is the child and not the parents who have the tax burden. In this respect, I would like to point out that the compensation measure must take account of the fact that the amount of the compensation is subject to taxation. It implies that the amount of the compensation should initially take account of future taxes on the property and its yield.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e642	I thank you for your answer. I believe that there are rules that take this into account, and that then in theory there will be no unimaginable situations for parents in the form of extra taxes. Otherwise, I have to say that the feedback that has come to me and several others suggests that these rules and practices are not always known and are being followed. There are different practices for this around the country. Some parents who are charged such an extra tax insist on applying for a reduction or remission of the tax, and they may be even more daring to seek out the head office to take out money to cover this tax. Will the Minister of Finance take the initiative to make these rules known, so that one can get similar practices across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e653	I expect that the answer to this question will normally flow to the tax rate. They are very competent in informing about answers given by the Council of State. It is also indicative of the consistent practice to which the tax rate is going to add, practice in line with what I have now replied to. It may also be that some taxpayers may not have been aware of their rights in this way. There we have a broader information obligation, and I hope that the answer and the questioner's initiative can help make it known.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e660	I only have a short follow-up question. I would also like to thank you for the last answer. If the tax is to be covered by the amount and deducted from the head office – i.e. if a person is seeking the head office to deduct the amount from it – it will mean that this compensation is very small, and it will not increase anything until the person is competent. It's clear that in these measurements and these calculations, compensation payments to children are very small. I would then like to ask the Council of State: does the Council agree that payments are small, and that there should therefore be a basis for reviewing these measurements/calculations with a view to increasing them?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e669	I am now somewhat uncertain about whether the questioner asks me about the tax provisions or the compensation measures. I have explained the tax provisions. They also take into account the degree of reduced working capacity, and I think practice as it is and has been, seems reasonable. If the questioner is concerned with the question of the compensation measurement, I have to say that there is a question that goes beyond my competence, and also in and of myself beyond my responsibilities. I showed in my first response that the compensation measurement takes into account future taxes, i.e. that there is consistency between the tax authorities’ practices and the compensation measurement – or vice versa, it is perhaps more appropriate to say. But on the last question, I can't answer anything more than refer to my first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e680	‘Several media have reported the inclusion of German meat bones meal in Norwegian fertilizers and the importation of English fertilizers containing bone meal, while Norwegian bone meal used as fertiliser is not permitted. What will the Council of State do to prevent the Norwegian ecosystems from becoming a garbage dump for foreign meat bones that may contain infectious agents, e.g. The number of people who have been treated in the first half of the year has increased since the beginning of the year. are there currently little knowledge of the risk of contamination associated with the use of manure containing meat-and-bone meal?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e687	Initially, I would like to make it clear that there is no general prohibition on the use of manure containing meat-and-bone meal, but the rules for such use are strict. Trade in and use of fertilisers is part of the EEA Agreement. There are strict requirements for the quality and use of fertilising products both in Norway and in the EU. The use of fertilising products containing composted animal waste or meat bones meal is based on a strict classification of animal health status and on requirements for the removal and destruction of specified risk material. Restrictions on the use of fertilisers containing, inter alia, fertilisers have been introduced through Norwegian national legislation. meat-and-bone meal. Such products are not allowed for use on meadows and pastures. The purpose of this restriction is to prevent food-producing animals from obtaining material which is prohibited as feed. The EU has introduced corresponding restrictions through a new EU Regulation on animal by-products not intended for human consumption. The EU Regulation is not yet part of the EEA Agreement. Meat meal from Norwegian Protein has been used as fertiliser in Norway for the last two years, following the permanent prohibition on the use of meat meal in feed for food producing animals. Meat bones meal contains a lot of nitrogen and phosphorus, and results show that the meat bone meal has good effect as fertiliser. Tests have been carried out to make recommendations on such fertiliser. As regards the risk of infection from the use of Norwegian meat bone meal as fertiliser, I would point out that the Veterinary Institute concluded in a report of 28 January 2001 that such a risk was negligible in the light of the Norwegian animal health status. There is a certain import of fertilising products with meat-and-bone meal into Norway, mainly from Sweden and Denmark. Most of these import products are intended for households/small gardens, horticulture/houses or green facilities. Fertiliser products legally marketed in the market in Norway are registered with the Agricultural Inspectorate. Agricultural surveillance has not registered products containing meat bones meal from Germany or England nor has any information on imports from these countries. In this case, where such fertilising products are on the market, this must be the result of illegal imports. However, it is not known that such illegal products are present on the Norwegian market today or that illegal imports have been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e701	I thank you for your answer. Now it's like the Norwegian people travel to Sweden to trade goods, because it's cheaper. Now it is also the case that English fertilizers are cheaper than Norwegian fertilizers. Is it so to understand that all fertilizers are controlled by the Agricultural Inspectorate, and can the Minister of Agriculture here in this Chamber confirm that the lawns of people are not used as garbage dumps for products containing cows and prions, as I have previously asked?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e708	I think that to provide guarantees in any of these complex areas one should be careful with. To that one knows too little about prions and where it exists, and the father around this. What we can do is we can have very strict rules in this area, as I expressed in my answer. But of course you can never guarantee anything 100 pst. in a country that is open, and where people travel and can have a lot with them. I believe, however, that the possibility that when you cross the border you have a lot of fertilizer, and that it represents a great danger, is very limited and in that case will be limited to what may be used in private gardens. In the case of authorised products for sale in Norway, they shall be subject to approval by the Agricultural Inspectorate and there shall be no manure from Germany or England that the Agricultural Inspectorate has registered legally sold in Norway, as I indicated in my reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e715	I thank the Council again for the answer. I am aware that this cannot be checked 100 pst., this has been confirmed here by the Council of State. We have been confirmed from several media that there is a danger that there will be imported fertilisers from England and from other countries, and then it will end up in the gardens of people and in the lawns of people, and that is a danger to my mind. I understand that the Ministry of Agriculture has no defence against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e722	Well, we have an extraordinarily good defense, and that's that we have very strict rules in this area. It is true that what we have from professionals in this area, as the Swedish Veterinary Institute in Norway – our best professionals – says that the risk that the representative Bastesen is now trying to address a major problem is negligible, we can ignore it. There is no such risk, says our professionals, and I think the representative Bastesen will have to register. However, from there to say that Norway is chemically clean, and that it cannot enter some other fertiliser product — for example. for use in private gardens — which do not go through the usual sales channels in Norway, of course I cannot guarantee that. I also think that the probability that it represents some major danger, we should ignore quite a lot. It's the fear that this is going to get into our livestock, which is the problem. We're not allowed to feed it, and we're not allowed to use it in fertilisers on grasslands, pastures, etc., where it can enter our livestock. We have very strict rules in this area, and so does England and Germany, and they're under sharpening.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e734	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: ‘Free choice of hospitals was introduced to ensure patients better rights and the best professional offer. We now have many examples of surgery that should have been referred to hospitals with greater competence in this area being carried out locally because the patient has not been informed of better expertise in other hospitals, especially in breast cancer operations. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the patient is given the best basis for decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e741	The representative, Bekkemelme Orheim, asks an important question, and she expresses a concern I share. There is reason to believe that there are too many differences between hospitals in relation to the choice of treatment and operations and that this in turn has consequences for the final outcome. That's reason for concern when only 25 pst. by Norwegian women with breast cancer have so-called breast-suppressing surgery, while the proportion in e.g. Sweden is over 60 pst. This is primarily about how the offer is organised, and what skills exist where women are treated. In 2000, a total of 2,240 women were operated on breast cancer in Norway, with a total of 70 hospitals. Only 14 of the hospitals operated more than 50 patients that year. Medical experts indicate that the number of interventions is directly related to the methods used in the procedure — and here, in concrete terms, whether you have the opportunity to offer breast-rescuing surgery. There are parallel situations for other cancers, such as: lung cancer and colon cancer. I am not satisfied that many cancer patients do not receive an offer that is completely satisfactory in quality. As the top hospital owner, I now have a different and better opportunity than before to intervene in it if necessary. I don't want to do that in a way that can undermine the responsibility of regional health companies for the services. For this reason, in the governance papers of regional health companies, I have underlined that the offers made should be in line with the priorities of health policy and be made with good quality and service and through efficient resource use. The governance documents also stress the active use of relevant environments of competence and knowledge sources in quality work. There are a number of processes in place in health enterprises that are known about the future provision of services, processes that not only relate to the supply of emergency food and food, but to the division of tasks more generally. This is primarily done to improve quality. The Ministry of Health sent out in February this year a request to the five regional health establishments for the organisation of the offer to cancer patients. Feedbacks indicate that regional health businesses have taken this into account. They are taking action to structure the offer with a view to improving its quality performance. This is included in the processes currently being implemented, and it will clearly have concrete consequences in relation to the organisation of the offers. Regional health companies have a responsibility here, and they take responsibility. In the context of cancer treatment, the offers are already undergoing restructuring. Let me then come to the second main part of the question from the representative, Bekkelem Orheim, about the free choice of hospitals. It is established to give patients power. They should be able to choose offers, but therefore also choose away some offers. It is necessary to provide patients with a better basis to choose from. The Ministry has commissioned the Social and Health Directorate to establish a national information base for free hospital selection. The service is launched in these days. The main purpose of this service is to provide patients, relatives and referral doctors with up-to-date and quality assurance information on patient rights and waiting times, as well as other information relevant to the patient’s choice of hospital. In addition, it shall contribute to a better use of the overall treatment capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e758	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very thorough answer. I am very pleased with the answer given by the Council of State, because we should remember that these are patients who are entitled to respectable treatment and correct and necessary information. This is about women who have had a very serious diagnosis, and many times we know that there are few opportunities to fight against a system that is perceived as powerful. Therefore, it is also important that the Council of State uses the power it now has through the new organisation of Hospital-Norway to ensure that patients receive the necessary information. If not, the important intentions that we had with free hospital choice will be slowly, but surely undermined. I am therefore pleased with the answer given by the Council of State. But in concrete terms, I would like to challenge the Council of State on the following: Is the Council of State willing to send out clarifications to the country's hospital, when we have now become familiar with these examples? We have the knowledge, and then it's also about that we have to use our power to make sure that this doesn't happen any more times.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e767	Let me say that the strengthening of information on free hospital choice that is now taking place will be followed up by new quality indicators, including information on the techniques and operations that are actually being used, as this information service is being developed. As far as guidelines are concerned, the Social and Health Directorate has recommended that in the short term a reduction in the number of hospitals carrying out breast cancer operations should be made. I think it is important that one here challenges the notion that all hospitals should do everything. This is a very clear example that patients are not always served. The Directorate recommends the creation of an internal working group aimed at drawing up some leading guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of patients with breast cancer on a national basis. We have asked the Directorate to follow up on this, to set up such a working group and to draw up such guidelines. I'm taking that challenge and I'm going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e776	I want to thank you again and I am pleased with what the Council of State says. I'm aware that we're going to have new quality assurances that might make us avoid this in the future. But I hope that in the time to come, the Council of State will focus heavily on women's health. I feel too many times that what is about children and women in health care is being down-prioritized. I know that the Council of State has had a commitment to this, but I want to invite him to focus heavily on it, have a clear attitude towards the strong profession that doctors represent, as to what to prioritise. And if it happens that a woman gets a treatment that she doesn't need, it's one case too much. I hope that the Council of State will be vigilant in relation to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e783	I'm going to promise the representative between Orheim that I'm still going to beg, and beg quite loud, as a watchbitch, where I see that there is injustice in relation to both women and children in terms of health care priorities. This is an engagement that is strong with me. I think what this question is about, hardly would have looked like this if it hadn't been because we're talking about a disease that just affects women, and it's just embarrassing!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e791	This question, from the representative of Ranveig Frøiland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be raised by the representative of Olav Akssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e794	‘“Over a few weeks, energy plants in Denmark have used three old coal-fired power plants to supply Norwegian electricity customers,” writes Bergen’s Official Journal. The Minister of Industry and Acquisition will not intervene, because it is good money to spend. Climate change emissions do not have any boundaries, but with these facilities Norway will contribute to a significant increase in climate emissions. What does the Council of State think about this, and what is the strategy of the Council of State to meet Norway’s need for power from more environmentally friendly energy plants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e801	We have experienced in winter how vulnerable Norwegian electricity production is to the variations in rainfall. The government therefore considers it essential to improve the security of energy supply in the longer term. The Ministry is now preparing a communication to the Stortinget that draws up a strategy to solve this problem. The representative Akselsen refers to the possibility of importing electricity during periods when the intention of hydropower plants fails. With the Norwegian hydroelectric dependency, it is absolutely necessary to be connected to a larger and more stable market than the Norwegian one. This applies to transmission links both to the Nordic countries and to other European countries. The environmental impact of power exchanges with the rest of the world will vary. As long as Norway is part of a Nordic power market, the flow of power to other countries may and should fluctuate over 24 hours and over different parts of the year. In addition, the exchange will vary from year to year. In this way, the common market in electricity contributes to the most efficient use of our resources. I would like to stress that it is a goal for the Government to have an energy supply that ensures that there is enough energy in the market at acceptable prices both for households and industry and for government. In order to achieve this, comprehensive action across a broad field is needed. In addition to strengthening the transmission capacity to avoid unnecessary bottlenecks, both domestically and abroad, I would like to highlight four key elements that the Government prioritises: 1st@item: inlistbox The rich supply of different new renewable energy sources offers many opportunities to convert energy production and consumption. To achieve this, we depend on the development of a market for alternative energy solutions. Here we want to have a role as a facilitator and a driver.2. We need to save energy. Among other things, new technologies will give us improved opportunities to use energy in a more sensible way than before. I have set the objective that Enova's commitment to saving and new renewable energy sources will contribute a total of 10 TWh by 2010.3. We need to make the best possible use of the hydropower we've already built up. I therefore believe it is very important to facilitate the modernisation and upgrading of our hydroelectric power plants.4. We need to make reasonable use of our natural gas resources. The Government will now follow-up in accordance with the decision of the Storting in connection with the processing of the gas notification. I look forward to the further work on a long-term strategy for the rational use of natural gas that can make important contributions to a more flexible energy supply. This applies both to the direct use of gas for energy purposes and to gas power stations where CO2 is handled properly. I believe that the Government's areas of activity show that we want to meet the demands of the future on energy supply with considerable effort. Extensive measures across a broad range are needed to improve supply. As previously announced, the Ministry is now working on a key communication on security of supply in the energy market where a number of these issues will be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e827	Then, on behalf of the questioner, I would like to thank you for the answer. What we experienced in the last winter was first and foremost that the predictions that had been put forward included: in a big message from the previous government, I suggested that we in Norway have put ourselves in a situation where we have much lower energy production than we need, especially in a dry year. The situation in the previous winter also shows that it is not useful to see this question in a Norwegian perspective. We're lucky to be connected to a northern European and Nordic market in this area, but by importing force, we're helping to increase emissions far more than what we could have done if we had produced this force in a slightly less impudent way in Norway. The example of the question shows that because we have taken national environmental measures as a whole, we have actually introduced greater emissions into the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e836	It is true that we got a situation as described in the Energy Communication, because there was a very special weather situation. But sooner or later we would probably have met that situation, if we weren't able then to supply the market with new energy. It is an important objective for the Government, and it should be an important objective for the overall political environment, that we provide the Nordic market with the most environmentally friendly energy possible. But as long as we participate in this market, of course, we must attract all the types of energy production that exist in the different countries, whether there are coal-fired power plants in Denmark or nuclear power plants in Finland and Sweden. But as I said, the more we can contribute to this Nordic market, the more environmentally friendly the composition of the Nordic energy portfolio will also be. And Norway has an important task and an important responsibility to fulfil.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e841	It is true that in this room a few years ago there was a major debate on the use of gas in Norway. Some of those who were opponents had a reason why they would be letting Norwegians out bigger, while the fans thought it would help a lower Nordic emission. My question is, if one had a gas power plant in Norway today, would the discharge in the North last winter be greater or less than what they were?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e848	I'll answer that, too. But the most interesting thing is what a gas power plant will contribute in the longer term in terms of what I stated as a primary responsibility for Norway, namely to ensure environmentally friendly energy production in the Nordic market. It is obvious that there is a gas power plant with CO2 management that will provide it. Gas power stations according to conventional method, which emit CO2, will not contribute. Of course, in the last winter, a gas power plant, although conventional, emits less emissions than a coal-fired power plant. But it's in the short term. It is a short-term solution and will not provide the important, stable, predictable and long-term energy production that also enables us to comply with international protocols, such as the Kyoto Protocol in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e860	‘This question, from the representative of Lena Jensen to the Minister for Education and Research, will be raised by the representative of Rolf Reikvam.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e863	I would like to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘A new Swedish school report shows that higher rates of private schools have led to increased social divisions in schools. The study shows that private schools have increased ethnic, socio-economic and performance segregation. Not everyone has the option to choose a private option. How will the Council of State avoid similar developments in Norway with the new proposal for private school law, which also allows schools to take school money?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e872	The school's report «Freedom of choice and its effects in the school area» highlights attitudes to freedom of choice among parents and school managers in the municipalities. The report shows that a large majority of the parents in the survey believe that parents and children should choose which school to attend. Among the parents who respond that they have actively chosen school for their children, a large majority also respond that they chose the nearest municipal school for their children. It is therefore important to note that the report does not deal with private schools, but with freedom of choice. The report concludes that there is no clear answer to whether freedom of choice leads to increased segregation in the school system. It is emphasised that segregation is a social problem that cannot be linked unilaterally to the freedom of choice theme. Both Swedish and international research is being reviewed. Studies suggest that segregation is strengthened somewhat, but also a very comprehensive and methodologically solid study from England and Wales that shows the opposite. Therefore, on the basis of existing research, it is not possible to draw certain conclusions either in one direction or another. School supervisors in the municipalities were asked what they thought had happened as a result of freedom of choice. There are considerable differences between urban and district school responsibilities. In cities, about one third of those responsible for schooling believe that choice to a large extent, to a very large extent or to some extent has had a segregated effect, while between 20 and 28 pst. responds that freedom of choice has had an integral effect to some extent. In districts, neither increased integration nor segregation are reported. School officials in municipalities who have experience in freedom of choice point to a number of positive effects, such as freedom of choice becoming a driving force for school development and educational renewal also in public schools, increased school system responsiveness and increased parental exposure. According to today’s legislation, private schools have the opportunity to charge school fees. Under today's system, the total amount of the grant and parental benefit shall not exceed the operating costs of the corresponding municipal schools, calculated on the basis of national averages. This principle has continued in Ot.prp. No 33 for 2002-2003, on the Law of Freestanding Schools. So there will still be an upper limit on parental pay with reference to the level of costs in public schools. This restriction prevents parents’ ability to pay being decisive for the quality of the school provision they receive. The government has in Ot.prp. No 80 for 2002-2003, About Addendum to Ot.prp. No 33, proposed a new funding model for the independent schools, whereby grants and maximum parental payments to the independent schools are to be based on the costs of the municipality in which the independent school is located. This means that self-employed and public schools in the same municipality will have a more equal financial environment. Under the current private school law, schools must have the whole country as an entrance area, and a private school cannot impose any other requirements in addition to the formal requirements of admission to public school. If there is a visit to a school, the school may give priority to matters such as: there may be a special need for a foreign student to be accommodated at an international school. This provision has also been continued in Ot.prp. No Thirty-three. It is therefore not free for schools to choose students either under the current private school law or under the legislation on independent schools. This excludes performance segregation in admission to independent primary schools. In the major cities of Norway, we already have social segregation in public schools, as a result of housing. I think increased freedom of choice could help reduce this kind of segregation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e885	I thank you for your answer. I choose to take on board what the School itself says in its press release on this study. The title of the press release is: «Freedom of choice leads to school development, but also to segregation.» So the Swedish School Administration is reasonably clear. Although the Council of State tried to tone it down, the Swedish School Administration is quite clear that they have had a development in Sweden that has created segregation. So then I want to move on, to the Council of State. Governments have previously been concerned with some comparative studies that our school, the public school, is unable to balance social differences. That's one of the problems we have. But is this the way to go, when the Swedish private schools, as the Swedish School Administration itself says, lead to increased segregation? There are specific social groups applying for private schools. This will help to reinforce the problem that the Council of State itself has described as one of the problems of public schools. Doesn't the Council of State see this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e892	I believe that you cannot carefully read a press release. I've read the whole report. I believe that the press release to Skolverket exaggerates the report, and that the newspaper's headline, as many have read, exaggerates the exaggeration. On the other hand, the magazine Education has a fairly good version of the report itself. This report is about freedom of choice, and in Sweden, there is NB free choice of schools also between public schools, public primary schools, and it is not in Norway. However, studies on freedom of choice in Sweden, which also include free choice of schools and a more liberal system of independent schools, lead to the conclusion that no clear conclusions can be drawn. Some studies show increased integration, some show an increase in segregation. But my attitude is that the segregation in school that we find in every country is mainly due to the residence segregated government. If we are to counteract it, we have to do it through integration policy, economic policy and a lot of other things. In reality, the school system can do little, because in all countries a large majority of parents choose the secondary school, usually the secondary public school. In Norway, however, the motives of parents who have sent their children to health schools show that they often want a more heterogeneous group of pupils for their children than they do in their secondary school. So the motives of parents of children in health schools in Norway are actually the opposite, namely, to counteract social segregation. This I think is very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e902	Let me first underline that I have read the report, at least most of it. I clearly believe that there is consistency between what the Swedish School Agency writes in its press release and what the report underlines. Freedom of choice has led to segregation. It's quite obvious, there can't be any doubt that that's the case. And then there's the basic question that the Council of State didn't answer: when we don't succeed in breaking down the social dividers in public school, is it the way to go to make it easier to set up private schools, so that more people can get away from public school? We know that there are certain groups who are applying for certain schools, and it will join in strengthening that segregation. I am surprised that the Council of State, which has been concerned about this – and I think she has been busy in a good way because we have not completely succeeded in public school – has in response to make it easier to establish private schools. My claim is that we know, and I think the Swedish report underlines, that this leads to increased segregation. Is that not going to be an entirely wrong answer to the problems we see in public school? Shouldn't we put the resources in public school to avoid that segregation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e907	I don't accept the starting point. This report consists in part of a survey on what people think and think and think, and in part of actual research. The actual studies show that no clear conclusions can be drawn, nor can one look at international research. I believe that the school system, if you study it in many countries, means very little to the social segregation in school, because it is the place of residence that decides, and therefore integration policy, economic policy, etc. But of course, the school system can mean a little bit, and then it can mean a little bit in the integral direction or a little bit in the segregated direction. If I thought that our proposal would increase segregation, I wouldn't have promoted it. I think it can strengthen integration. Among other things, we see this through a recent study by the Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research. They have asked Norwegian parents: Why have you chosen a boarding school for your children? A lot of people say, "We don't want the homogeneous student groups that they meet if we choose the primary school." For example, let me say, in Oslo West, where there is a very small proportion of minority students, and where parents may want to send their children to a boarding school to meet a higher proportion of minority students. I think that's positive, and that's why I think it can be integral, to less social segregation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e915	This question, from the representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e918	I allow myself to ask the Minister the following questions: ‘Traffic ports in South Norway in general and in Inner Oslo in particular have decreased traffic. According to professionals, this is due to large increases in fees made by the Coastal Agency, which often makes transport along the road network more profitable than maritime transport. The costs of ships such as: Calls on the port of Drammen, has been quadrupled for the last eight years. Such a distortion of transport choices is contrary to the objective of more transport by ship for environmental reasons. What will the Council of State do to ensure the continued transport of goods by sea?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e927	It is true that traffic has fallen to and from Norwegian ports in recent years. The reasons for this decline are several. Economic slowdowns in the international economy will also have consequences for maritime traffic to and from Norway, as both the shipping industry and the Norwegian economy depend on developments in the international economy. But, of course, the cost of port calls is also an important element. The costs of going to Norwegian ports consist of two main components: fees for Coastal Works services and port charges. The port charges shall be fixed by each port or port company and shall cover the costs of operating and expanding the port. The coastal works’ services are established to meet the needs of safe navigation along the coast and are largely financed by fees. Where the representative of Marthinsen refers to the fact that the cost of ships calling on the Drammen has quadrupled over the last eight years, this will not apply to all ships. The increase in this area is likely to apply to a limited group of vessels which received large increases in fees as a result of the introduction of new international measurement rules in 1994. This resulted in a significant increase in registered gross tonnage. The calculation of fees is based, inter alia, on: on the tonnage size. This may explain some of the above-mentioned increase in fees. The costs of the Coastal Works have not increased much in recent years, but have been in the range of 3-5 pst. annual. This has been in line with the general growth in prices and wages in Norway. It costs to ensure that transport is safe and environmentally friendly. In Oslo, security has improved significantly over the last decade. A traffic control centre has been established to monitor ship movements in Oslofjorden. For the entrance to the Drammen port, demands for tauboat assistance for larger ships were introduced in 1999 after several near-accident accidents in the Svelvik stream. Of course, these measures increase the cost of calls to ports. But on the other hand, this means increasing safety and reducing the risk of accidents in this area with a large population and a vulnerable archipelago that is a recreational area for many. With the main gravity of population and business located near the coast, maritime transport is important and of great importance in the Norwegian transport system. That is my objective – or in particular the aim of the Minister for Fisheries, I would say – to continue to ensure and develop maritime transport as a competitive transport option. In the roll-out of the national transport plan, the government will carry out a review of charges and charges in the various transport sectors. The impact notification is expected to be promoted early in 2004. In further work, the Minister for Fisheries will closely monitor the performance of the Coastal Agency’s services at a high level of safety and in a cost-effective manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e946	I thank you for the answer, which in part does not match the figures and descriptions given to me by the central port authorities in the area in question. A prerequisite for building the Centre for Coastal Traffic in Horten was a cost cut in other activities in the same areas when the Central Bank became operational. Before Christmas, the Ministry of Fisheries found that this would not happen, but instead increased the cost of boats calling on Inner Oslofjord. According to the information I have received, the cost increase of the Coastal Works is every year at the same level as for the ports that get a total boatload, while the minister says it is 3-5 pst. annual and in line with the cost growth of society in general. What I'm really asking is whether within the Ministry of Fisheries you focus so much on fish that ports and maritime transport in South Norway are forgotten. Should the ports be transferred to the Ministry of Transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e955	I don't think it's right that I comment here today. I think it is right to say that the fees have increased roughly in line with the development of costs and wages. However, as I said, there are some ships that have received a huge increase in fees as a result of the new measurement rules that came in 1994, and it must probably be able to explain at least a large part of the cost increase to which the representative refers. But I can tell you that the Government and the Ministry of Fisheries carry out assessments and investigations on the structure of fees. A number of investigations have been carried out as a result of previous high-level announcements and assessments have also been made in relation to ESA, which raised some objections to general coastal charges. All this will not be sent to consultation for long periods of time. It will of course also be affected in documents coming to Stortinget, for example. in the national transport plan, as I mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e964	I have some figures in front of me here for different boats calling at the Drammen port. It is probably right, as the minister suggests, that the figures may be related to the conversion of methodologies. For example, a boat called “Don Pascal” paid. in 1994 NOK 31 798 to call the port of Drammen. In 2000, four years later, it paid NOK 114 000 to call at the same port. That's how the numbers I have in front of me here, for quite a few of the boats that have a relatively regular call to the Drammen port. This is probably the case now for various reasons, including economic reasons. The Drammen port is known as the port of import for cars. Now you have decided that the cars will go to Malmö, and then they will be transported on trailers to Norway instead. It's an unfortunate development, also environmentally. Would you like to look at the charges in this context – also the environmental taxes on the boats entering the port of Drammen?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e971	I can inform you that, in the context of the national transport plan, we also undertake to review charges and charges in different transport sectors that will allow for comparison of the forms of funding for different transport sectors, given their importance in achieving policy objectives, of which the representative was more than one. I may also mention that the ESA has assessed the general coastal fee not to comply with the EEA Agreement on equal treatment of all economic operators in the area of the agreement, and that the Coastal Directorate has therefore drawn up a proposal to extend the general coastal fee to all vessels, both on domestic and international voyages, more than 500 registered gross tonnage. This proposal will mean that ships currently paying general coastal fees will be subject to a reduced fee because the same costs will be allocated to more vessels than before. This is a proposal to be sent to the hearing in 2003 and is part of the picture that is now included in the assessment of changes in the structure of fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e981	I will allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘Norwegian Hydro, one of the industrial locomotives, has announced that they will no longer invest in the metal industry in Norway. The high level of costs and uncertain framework conditions are the reason why they will move the investments. At the same time, industrial employment in Norway is being reduced day by day and unemployment is increasing. The government has chosen to cooperate with SV on future industry framework conditions through the Climate and Gas Communication. What industrial and industrial development does the Government propose to secure export incomes and jobs in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e990	It's actually not right, as the question says, what is the position you have in Hydro? Thus, no account has been taken of future investment in the metal industry in Norway, specifically what will happen to the works on Karmøy, in Høyanger or in Årdal. What Norsk Hydro has done is start work on an investigation that will look at consequences both for the closure and upgrade of the aluminium halls. The Hydro project group shall also look at the ring-fenced effects of the three communities if the facilities are not replaced by new capacity. The project group, which was established in February this year, consists of people from both local management and central trust. The project team is expected to deliver its investigation on 1 July 2002. Norwegian competitive business is facing significant challenges. In recent years, competitiveness has been significantly weakened by several factors: high wage growth, high dollar rates and a high level of interest rates. In the current situation, problems have been exacerbated by very weak growth in the international economy. The government has as its starting point the contribution of industrial policy and overall economic policy to a continued strong and competitive business in Norway. A vital business will contribute to the economic growth and value creation we depend on to ensure future well-being. In the current situation, it has been important to pursue an economic policy with the necessary rigour that contributes to a lower krone price, and from January we have seen a significant reduction in the krone price. Conversion is something that happens and should happen all the time in business. This helps to ensure the basis for future activities in a situation of strong international competition. There may be a risk of the disappearance of businesses and jobs faster than new ones. A rapid and dramatic reduction in our competitive sector may lead to higher conversion costs than necessary and weaken the basis for future growth. It may be difficult to rebuild competitive business if it is built too rapidly. The Government therefore attaches great importance to pursuing a comprehensive policy to ensure the competitiveness of industry and the rest of the economy. We want to improve the framework conditions for business, and in the last two years, the Government has implemented tax reliefs of more than DKK 19 billion. Most of these reliefs have gone to business. When companies retain more of the surplus, it is easier to carry out conversions that ensure future growth. In this case, I would like to add that the investigation mentioned here, and a report I saw about this, indicates that there are many factors that suggest that the outcome could be as indicated by the representative here in his initial question. But the decision is not made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e1007	I would like to thank you for your answer. When we talk to the industry, they signal that one of the main challenges ahead is that there will be a balance in the power market. Another important issue for industry is that no charges are imposed that make them uncompetitive. I listened with interest to the council when he answered me. I think he says a lot nice. But what's real is that the government, along with the Socialist Left Party, has imposed framework conditions, and continues to do so by decisions in the Storting, which make it unsafe for the industry, and therefore they are waiting to invest in Norway. Will the Government add to a more industry-friendly policy? And will the Minister of Industry add up to a package that can get industrial growth on the track?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e1018	I think it may be a bit strange that the conditions that affect the competitiveness of Norwegian industry and what affects Norwegian industry's interest to invest in Norway are, above all, a policy that has been out of date with SV. That was so much news to me. But I think it might have to do with the two very special areas related to power supply, as far as gas power is concerned. Otherwise, I would say that the information I get from Hydro and all the other companies is that there is uncertainty primarily about the future cost picture that is crucial. This investment will only give a little in seven years' time. With the cost evolution we've had, it's actually the biggest single cause. But I want to take the tape with me. And I am very concerned that we are not going to charge taxes to the Norwegian industry that is not otherwise imposed on the industry. The fact that increasing taxes and taxes is not exactly a flag cause for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e1027	The Labour Party will continue to work to ensure that the framework conditions for industry become such that this industry will be here in the country. But I hope the Minister of Industry agrees that it is serious when one receives such signals that have come through news headlines that this industry will stop investment in Norway. Norway has the most environmentally friendly industry in the world. We have a high-tech industry that raises the environmental issue, and so do they in order for them to be here in the country in the future. For this reason, it is environmentally beneficial for this industry to remain in Norway. And the more important it is for politicians to add to the framework conditions that make industry stay in the country. Does not the Minister of Industry see that the environmental consequences are dramatic, and that the need for extra income and local communities can be affected by the government's passive food and energy policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e1036	It makes a lot of sense in parts of the representative from Klungland, but his attachment to these attachments at the end, which are missing root in reality, is not very informative either for the undersigned or for others. What's quite clear after seeing the analysis in this case is that it's quite obvious that the environment is a bit of this. But when you compare Hydro's work in Norway to all the other places that are alternatives, and look at what the cost is to produce 1 kg of aluminium of a given quality, it's unfortunately so that we get some bad out there. I think you just have to see in your eyes that it will be one of the main elements that will count to the seventh and last. In terms of packages and non-packages, I don't think Hydro or other companies can build their future on a possible package for an investment that will apply for the next 50 years, but it's the overall investment climate that will be crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e1049	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘LO and NHO have taken the initiative to develop a national qualification offer for senior workers to keep experienced employees in active employment. I mean, budget-inner. S. In 2002–03, a majority decided to recommend to the Government the establishment of a qualification measure for senior workers. The Minister of Industry has met with LO and NHO on the matter. When and how will the Council of State follow up this decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e1058	Later in the summer of 2001, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade received an enquiry from the LO and the NHO on a project on skills development for experienced employees, in which one wanted the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade to participate in financing the project. The Ministry decided to participate in a pre-project and the report of this work was completed in July 2002. Following discussions with the Ministry of Labour and Administration and the Ministry of Education and Research, it was decided in October 2002 to forward the project report to the Senior Policy Centres for a professional assessment and possible follow-up. One, as important, is that the Senior Policy Centres were more closely linked to this work, so that the project could be seen in the context of the National Action Plan for Senior Policy in Employment, launched by the Labour Organisations and national authorities. The feedback from the Senior Policy Centres was largely positive, but it initially wanted to carry out a pilot project and develop a framework and content for a main project. The cost of this work was estimated at between NOK 750000 and SEK 1,5 million. kr. Following further discussions with the departments concerned, a solution has been found in which one plans an independent project which is slightly less than the one originally presented. Throughout this process, I have considered the project — which is to stimulate older workers to continue their professional activity — as a positive measure for each enterprise and, of course, for society as well. I am therefore initially committed to making funds available for the project, and in a letter dated 22 April 2003, I asked the Senior Policy Centres to discuss the specific arrangements in a meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e1069	I thank you for the answer, which I see as positive. I hope the Council of State will follow up and try to get ahead of the matter, so that it can be put out in life as soon as possible. I think there is a broad consensus that holding on to experienced employees is important, not least in a slightly longer perspective, where lack of labour may be a bigger problem than what we experience in these days, where unemployment is the problem. It is also more sensible to take action before thanking them in the workplace, because it will be more demanding to get them back. So I hope the Council will follow up the matter and not just wait for feedback, but maybe it is active to get feedback.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e1078	I don't tend to limit myself to living in hope – I do something too! I have also done so, and I have an absolutely positive attitude. I even attended the meeting we had. It is, as the representative says, a main challenge to get older workers to work longer, and that companies are conscious of this responsibility and contribute to it. One of the main issues of a long-term budgetary nature is the fact that people live longer and that they end up in the labour market more and more early — with the major funding challenges it poses for the government budget. It's also true, from a slightly longer perspective, that lack of labour is likely to be a bigger problem than the unemployment we've seen now. I'm going to do what's in my power, within the financial framework that the Storting puts at all times for my business, to do what's most sensible. This is an action that I consider to be sensible and therefore will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e1093	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘The travel industry is a significant industry for Norway, both in terms of employment and in terms of foreign exchange income. Coordinated and effective efforts by the Norwegian authorities are also important to facilitate the activities of the tourism industry and to generate growth. Not least in the light of international events that are now creating unrest and the consequent reduction in international tourism, it is important that the authorities contribute. How does the Council of State respond to the travel and business messages?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e1102	Norway has an absolute potential as a country of travel. The travel industry has a value creation of about 4 pst. of GDP, but it actually employs 7 pst. of the economically active population and yields foreign exchange income of about NOK 22 billion. As the representative of Sortevik points out, this is a significant group of industries in what can be called Norwegian travel. Norway is considered a safe country. This should represent a competitive advantage. When Norway has had a certain stagnation in tourist traffic, it is due to a constant increase in competition, a high level of prices and changes in travel patterns. Travel industries, like other industries, depend on the general framework conditions of business. Tax relief also benefits tourism industries. Tax reliefs, together with the organisation of moderate wage growth, interest rate reductions, falling krone prices and a tight budget, are the main contributions by the Government to increase value creation and strengthen competitiveness and profitability in the tourism industries. In the autumn budget, the Government will promote an action plan for innovation and entrepreneurship. We want to make it easier for the many creative people in our country to realize their ideas more fully. The government is in the process of reorganising the public sector, which will also be of importance for tourism industries. Travel industries are in a special situation by receiving support for their marketing. About 100 million. kr is granted annually as a subsidy to the Norwegian Tourism Council and it is assumed that the tourism industries themselves will match an equivalent amount. As a follow-up to the Travel Life Communication, part of the grant to the Tourist Council has been used for brand construction and the website portal ‘visitnorway.com’. We will evaluate the activities of the Tourist Council during this year. Travel industries face major challenges in the future. We are a high-cost country and have to expect to live with it. It is difficult for us to compete on cheap products – and it may not be desirable, either from industry itself. Instead, we have to compete on quality and with products like the travelling demand. I believe that the tourism industries have significant market potential. However, it is for the travel businesses themselves and their organisations to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the market with the means at all times available to them by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e1119	St.meld. No 15 for 1999–2000 was dealt with in the Stortinget nearly three years ago, on 6 June 2000. At that time, the Stortinget agreed that Norway had to be made a brand for travel purposes, and agreed that priority should be given to public funding for the purpose. As late as 13 June 2001, Stortinget asked the Government to submit a five-year escalation plan for brand construction. It is therefore strange to hear that a new action programme is about to take place. What is more important for the industry is that you follow up the five-year plan of escalation that was requested and that you actually started. But it is a clear premise that financial predictability is given to the actors. Brand construction is not carried out from one financial year to the next, but must be carried out in the long term. The industry must then be sure that it will be followed up by the public funds that a unanimous increase has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e1126	There St.meld. No 15 was discussed, I was involved in both the debate and the business committee. The main problem, which the representative of Sortevik is probably fully aware of, is that the Stortinget has also taken a number of other decisions since the St.meld decisions. No 15 got it. It implies that the sum of all the major decisions taken is not compatible within the external framework of which the Storting is willing to use public money. So there must be a priority. It is true that in the annual budgets that have been, neither the Government nor the Stortinget have been able to prioritise beyond the level at which it now lies, above 100 million. kr. With the current budgetary situation, I do not see it as realistic to be able to follow this with direct appropriations. But what I want to point out is that this industry has received several hundred million dollars in tax cuts over the last two years. The industry has then been able in a much better way than before to deal with the marketing challenges that this small cut would pose.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e1133	We are currently in a situation of war and unrest. This leads to uncertainty in travel life, with leavencies and dismissals as a consequence. Short-term public instruments may take the form of means used to promote sales in cooperation between the tourism industries and the Norwegian Tourism Council. Then we talk about funds to be spent abroad, spending abroad on marketing abroad to get foreign tourists to Norway. Then I have problems following the Council of State's reasoning that there are budgetary frameworks nationally that are to guide what the rich oil nation can actually use abroad. Costs to cover bills from foreign suppliers that are therefore intended to make the marketing in foreign markets could not help to overheat the Norwegian economy or create imbalances in domestic budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e1138	The representative said that he could not understand that expenditure could have an impact on the pressure in the Norwegian economy. What I can at least agree with the representative is that it is not always easy to have the overall picture of the coherence of the macroeconomic impact of what is being done in budgetary policy. This does not apply only to the representative Sortevik. That also applies to me. However, what is nevertheless an undeniable fact is that a majority in the Grand Duchy does not consider the situation as Mr Sortevik does, by not establishing a foreign budget, where there is no limit, and where the checks you could find useful at any time, under the vignette ‘there is no pressure in the Norwegian economy’. At my discretion, this industry is able to prioritise the most important thing within the framework it has received. So the industry gets an input of approx. Two million. kr a week from the Ministry of Industry. It is a prerequisite that it should be used approximately. a similar amount itself. With the tax reductions it has received, I think it must be based on the fact that it will be the level in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e1168	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time. That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-07.ana.ud1788e1181	There is no record.
