ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e47	The President will propose the election of two presidents of Odelstingen’s meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e52	I propose Gunnar Halvorsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e57	Gunnar Halvorsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Gunnar Halvorsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are unanimously elected as chairpersons of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e76	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e87	In the present setting, based on Ot.prp. No 3, the transfer of sectoral responsibilities for specialised health services for drug addicts and ownership of institutions from the county to the state. The recommendation and the proposal represent the first part of the proposal for a more comprehensive reform of measures for drug users. As the second part of the reform, the Government intends to submit to the Storting in 2003 proposals for the future organisation of the remaining responsibilities of the county municipalities for the treatment and care of drug users. It is assumed that from 1 January 2004, health-related care provision will only take place at two levels of administration, namely the State and the municipalities. In this context, it is important to note that the obligation of reimbursement by municipalities to stay in specialised health institutions for drug users will be eliminated. A majority in the vote, all parties with the exception of the Workers' Party, support the proposal for the appointment of two administrative bodies in the treatment of drug users, which is also supported by a significant majority of the hearing bodies. The working party considers that it is very unfortunate for the drug supply to drug users to carry out a piecewise and shared transfer to state responsibility without a comprehensive review of all types of measures and an overall assessment of the need for qualification and capacity development. I assume that the Workers' Party itself will explain its position in this way. There are no minority suggestions in the configuration. With regard to the future responsibility of municipalities and county councils for the care of Russo, I refer to a majority comment from the government parties and the Progress Party, where they write that the specialised social services must either be transferred to the state or be a municipal responsibility. This will also come back to part II of the reform, which the Storting will be dealt with in the current year. In the case of referral practices to specialised healthcare, an overall committee agrees with the Ministry that no referral shall be required and that this is laid down in the Regulation. Furthermore, an overall committee agrees that a non-payment of self-payment in emergency outpatient clinics for drug addicts would be waived. In the case of emergency places, reference is made to paragraphs 7 to 13 of the Social Services Act, which have been applied in relation to county municipalities. The proposal now proposes a new § 7–13a, which provides equivalent regulatory support to regional health enterprises. However, an overall committee considers it appropriate to provide the provision as a new second paragraph of Sections 7 to 13. As regards the legal basis for the acquisition of establishments by the State, an overall committee supports the proposal in the proposal. In this context, the Committee stresses that institutions and equipment of the county institutions in the field of drug care are to be transferred free of charge to the State, but that negotiations are being held between the State and the county municipalities in the event of the assumption of debt on buildings and equipment. In this context, a majority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the Advance Party stress that there are greater differences between the counties in terms of care and institutions than hospitalisation. Furthermore, this majority points out that there are very many private enterprises in the care of drug users in the different municipalities. This majority also believes that, by taking over, the State must show considerable liberality in the negotiations. Like the Labour Party, the Progress Party would like to see an overall plan for the transfer of the health services of drug users to health legislation, with proposals for practical solutions, treatment arrangements, development of competences, etc. When this technically difficult situation arose for the sake of time, that the reform should be on the rails as from 1 January 2004, the Party of Progress found it appropriate to enter the proposal as it exists. However, the Progress Party would strongly stress that all related health and social care services currently existing in the county municipalities must be transferred preferably to the State or sub-transmitted to the municipalities. This requires, however, that not only health businesses build up competences but also that the part of care that remains in municipalities must result in municipalities building up, to a far greater extent than in the past, specific competences to meet the needs of drug users at municipal level, and in particular at lowthreshold level. From the point of view of the Progress Party, we would have liked to see that the care of Russorg had been transferred as a whole as a unified state responsibility, but in this case we will have to come back to that at a later stage when the transition from 2004 is evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e113	As the Chairman of the Committee was also involved in his statement, the Workers' Party has made a number of critical comments on Ot.prp. No 3rd@item: Therefore, let me start by stressing that the basis for the critical comments is not that we do not want to clarify the responsibilities of healthcare for drug users. We also believe that health services must and can take greater responsibility for drug users. We will therefore vote in favour of the proposed legislative changes promoted in Ot.prp. No 3rd@item: What, then, is the basis for our critical attitude? It is linked to the fact that drug users are a very complex group. For this reason, drug users are a group with a very complex need for help. The noise sector shall address a range of challenges and tasks. There are prevention, early intervention, social services, specialised social services, healthcare, specialised health services, detoxification, after-care, etc. challenges. It is not that the drug user needs only one service at a time. Few groups need as much multidisciplinary cross-sectoral treatment as the drug user. This means that we, as decision-making authorities, also have a strong need to make our decisions on the basis of an overall assessment. We do not have the opportunity to do that today. The government has offered a piece of treatment. Part I of the reform is now being discussed, without knowing the content of the Government's proposal for Part II, which will be discussed later this year. Yes, even government parties see this point when they say in their comments that ‘they had seen it as an absolute advantage that the whole reform and future organisation of care had been presented to the Storting in one single case’. What is used as an argument for a piece of treatment is the need for clarification, and therefore the basis for preparing and, of course, taking the necessary steps in the relationship between the county and the state, as regards the acquisition of properties, the acquisition of employees, etc. It may be that there is now no alternative to the treatment facing Odelstinget, but the Workers' Party believes that it should have been possible for the Government to make an overall proposition and, nevertheless, to implement it from 1 January 2004. I remember in that context that former health minister Tore Tønne spent something over a year on the whole health reform. Then the current government should have done an overall review of the care at about the same time. I would like to stress that with the treatment we are now receiving, the Workers' Party must reserve the right to take a final position on the overall future provision of care in connection with the treatment of Part II. In conclusion, I would also like to comment on the relationship between the Chairman of the Committee and the rapporteur on the matter as regards the practical work to be done in the wake of the decision taken today by Mr Odelstinget. In its opinion, the majority of the Committee, consisting of the members of the Labour Party, the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, stressed that there were greater differences between the counties in terms of care for the elderly than in hospitals. Moreover, the element of private enterprises is significantly larger, and the majority emphasises that the variations in drug care make it irrelevant to use calculation keys for settlement. The majority therefore believe that the large variations must mean that the acquisition process begins by conducting separate negotiations with all county municipalities. The majority believe that a partial take-over must involve considerable liberalism on the part of the state. I allow myself to end by asking the responsible State Council what kind of plans are now being made for the process of acquisition from county council to state.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e133	Cooperation management is now taking important steps to ensure that drug users are finally entitled and access to specialised healthcare in line with other patient groups. Proposition represents the first part of a very comprehensive reform of different interventions for drug users. The second part is all out at the hearing, and will be dealt with by Stortinget during the spring. The co-operation administration will strengthen all aspects of drug care. It must be better prevented, controlled, treated and, in particular, rehabilitated. Multi-level reorganisation and adaptations are already under way. The government believes that key areas of action such as the action plan against poverty, the investigation of the joint employment, social security and social services, the psychiatry escalation plan and the state take-over of child protection must be seen in the context of drug policy in order to succeed. Here it is not at all about a pieceful and divided reform, as the Workers' Party's Bjarne Håkon Hanssen says. On the contrary, it is about a reform that is carefully thought out, and there are several measures already in place. Legally, there is currently no difference between the rights of drug users to specialist health services and the rights of other patients. Nevertheless, we experience that drug users often do not receive the specialist health services they need and are entitled to. This is very unfortunate, and therefore it is urgent to take the necessary action. The co-operation administration therefore wants to change both the law and the organisation of today’s care. The state is currently responsible for specialist health services in somatics and psychiatry. The government will also transfer the responsibility for the specialised health services currently provided to drug users of the county municipality under the Social Services Act to the state of the regional health enterprises. Privates who currently have agreements with the county must be able to continue their agreements with the regional undertakings. It is very important to develop varied mental health care interventions for drug users, as this patient group often suffers from severe mental disorders as well as its drug abuse. Institutions for drug users in the healthcare sector shall have adequate competence and provision at the specialist level, while a broad multidisciplinary orientation is required. It is important to facilitate good cooperation with the first line service in the municipalities. Russreform II, which is now being consulted, will provide the basis for such important cooperation. The aim is future cooperation across all previous borders, removal of grey areas, faster treatment provision, and not least better treatment provision for drug users.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e146	They like to talk about ‘drug services’. There's something symbolic about that term, because at the moment we're talking about care and not treatment, there's often at the bottom few expectations that you should be able to achieve health. For this reason, any step towards an interaction and overall treatment provision for drug users is important. For a long time, SV has suggested that drug treatment should be much more closely integrated into other treatments. We are pleased with the signals that the Government gives that you want to do it. However, SV agrees with the criticism that has been made. The first step from the county municipality into the country with the drug treatment offer for drug users, and then in Part II to go through the whole field, is unfortunate. You should have got a coordination where you took everything together. However, when special health services are no longer provided in the county and drug users are to be treated under the authority of specialist health services, it is logical that there should be consequences for its organisation and that the state should be given a completely different responsibility from the one it has now had. It is thought-provoking when you see how different drug users are met, that you have been able for so long to have a system that is based on the law of social care and not on the law of special health care or other legislation relating to treatment, which was primarily to lead the way. My experience, my impression, is that getting a treatment offer for a drug addict has been very difficult. If you think you are suffering, that drug users have obvious mental problems, it will very often be that when your treatment comes into contact with the drug addict, the first question that comes up is: Are you to blame for the mental problems you face, drug abuse? If it is established, today it appears to be a form of exclusion diagnosis, i.e. psychiatry reserves the right to provide a treatment offer to the drug user, and somatic hospital services may take him to a brief detoxification to print him out again. This means that the references to be sent are often sent from the local social office. The municipality should provide a prior guarantee — it will take a long time for treatment to be provided, and that means that drug users are little motivated for treatment at the time of the offer. This, of course, is not how the system works. Therefore, in the SV’s view, there is clearly a need to facilitate the referral of drug users in line with others who require a treatment offer, by writing a referral if it is reasonable to wait a time before the treatment takes place — possibly in emergency settings in somatic hospital wards, or simply in psychiatric wards when psychosis, hallucinations, delusions that require treatment, if not against the patient’s will. This requires adjustments, for example: in the Law on Mental Health Protection. It requires that much of what has been formulated today in the social care law, instead, should be included in other laws relating to specialist health care and primary health care. And that means that we need to clarify the responsibilities of the staff who are going to accept the drug addict. It also means that health professionals need to be trained in a completely different way from today. I am reasonably convinced that there has been so much trade-union in relation to the drug field, both among doctors and other health professionals, that today you are not as well-equipped as you should be doing. Assessing psychosis and its treatment when the cause is drug use and not other conditions can be difficult professional assessments. But it can't possibly be right that it's because of drugs, it's supposed to make him not to get an offer. The need for a comprehensive review is clearly present. And I really hope that when you get that review, you can both clarify the responsibility in such a way that professionals cannot dissociate themselves from it and connect it to a resource access within the drug field that gives the group the treatment it should have. I see in the government's proposition that they mention some numbers that are both thought-provoking and interesting for the purposes of development, but of course objectionable. Here it is mentioned that the number of ‘drug users with an intravenous, opiate-dominated pattern of abuse is estimated to be between 10000 and 14000 at the end of 2000’ and that it represents ‘about a doubling in the last ten years’. My impression is that all parties, including SV, have been very insecure, uncertain about what is a proper treatment strategy linked to the group of drug users, not least with heavy drug users. We've seen how we've been looking for action with methadone, with Subutex, by other means, and how the pendulum has fluctuated between restrictive and very liberal approaches. And what is clearly needed is to strengthen the field of ‘drug treatment’ in such a way that professional security can also arise in the national Parliament on the right track. It may be in some areas today, but I feel uncertain about that. In the case of overdose deaths, there have also been so many variations from year to year that you can be unsure about what is going on and what is not. That is why I, and SV, hope that when the Government is going to review the whole drug field, it will also make it visible how to take care of it, how to use professional groups that have knowledge today, and how to strengthen professional groups that don't have it today, in such a way that we see over time that the figures mentioned here are not only getting higher for every year that goes, but that you can do something about it, that you can deliver a worthwhile offer to those who have a drug problem, and then you have treatment as an overall strategy, not care.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e163	The co-operation agency’s proposal to transfer sector responsibility for specialised services for drug addicts, which is part of the specialist services, to the country is a natural follow-up to the state overtaking of hospitals. It is also the Christian People's Party's holding, despite the fact that we were opposed to the state takeover of the specialist. The specialised health services must be run by the same operators. This will help to make the drug user a 'normal' patient, to use such a word, not one that is stigmatized and down-prioritized. The Russian reform will take place in two parts. It would be easier to manage the whole reform together, but we thought it was a strong word to say that it is ‘very unfortunate for the offers’ to divide the reform into two, as the Labour Party, SV and the Centre write in a note. There is no coverage for such word usage. I also thought that the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen went very far in a criticism that I saw as little underlying. When he refers to the time it took to carry out a state takeover of hospitals, there was probably in the Stortinget quite strong criticism from a minority with regard to the time a benefit in that context. It could have been an advantage to spend a little longer time. But let it lie still, because there is agreement on the conclusions. With drug reform I, we get state responsibility in the form of law and can initiate the practical transfer of institutions and property from the county to the state. Rusreform II will be a follow-up to local responsibility. Rustic care is a difficult area. Russ problems are often so complex and so deeply involved in the individual human situation, psychologically and physically, that it may seem hopeless to remedy the difficulties that have come to you. It is important for the Christian People's Party to remind us all that we do not have, and will not have, any lower ‘value limit’ to help the drug addict with his problems. In addition to the public specialist institutions that the State subsequently provides, it is important for the Christian People's Party to extend under the completely necessary supplement provided by the private institutions. Organizations such as the Blue Cross, the Gospel Center and many others represent a follow-up of the entire human being in a patternable way. It is of particular importance, therefore, that, when taking over healthcare professionals, the State sees good sense and respect for the private institutions' peculiarities when entering into agreements with county authorities today. The spiritual dimension, which several of the private institutions have as central elements in their care, has appeared to many to be decisive in getting out of the drug problem and as a decisive foundation for a worthwhile life. A co-chairman's committee agrees with the Ministry that the legislation of the Working Environment Act Chapter. 12 A must apply to them when the institutions are transferred to the State. In addition, where pension schemes are concerned, the Committee is composed of the Ministry's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e182	Practically all the Hearing Officers have underlined the need for a comprehensive solution and an overall assessment of the treatment of all drug users. Drug users are not a uniform group, and it is therefore the case that an overall committee points out that there must be a diversity of institutions and measures in the care of drug users. The treatment of bovine animals must include, inter alia: include both emergency measures, short and intensive detoxification arrangements, treatment where health professionals are critical, treatment where multidisciplinary action plan is crucial, long-term treatment and care where the social aspects are crucial, often in cooperation with good and targeted networking locally. We are, together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, afraid that a pieceful and divided transfer to the state can lead to unfortunate consequences for drug treatment. Among other things, we are afraid that we can get a two-way distribution based on different funding systems and law enforcement. This may include, inter alia: are the heaviest drug users most likely to receive help and treatment, while early intervention in the behaviour of children and young people in possible drug abuse and long-term follow-up of people with a complex and long-term drug problem will be difficult. These last categories will have to be fought within a relatively narrow financial framework, mainly on the municipal budget, and these groups will also have a lower status than the rapid entry into the specialist health service. It is important to have good treatment at specialist health level if municipalities are to succeed in their work on drug care — treatment, weaning and socialisation back to the most normal life possible. In this context, it is also clear that treatment provision at both first and second line levels is needed, and it is important to remember the economy and resource availability of municipalities. The centre party is very concerned that this specialist health concept must also include the social dimension along with the health dimension. We will show you here, among other things. to a hearing opinion of the Rogaland A Centre. We are concerned that the takeover of care by the specialist healthcare service must be such that you get a whole and not a hit page – the other way – in relation to what you’ve had at the moment. In the setting, we show you, among other things, To estimate 70 pst. of the measures in the care of drug users are governed by the Social Services Act and 29 pst. in the Specialist Health Services Act. It is then important to have this social academic aspect in place both in relation to drug treatment and to future legislation and treatment provision. We believe that there is something missing in the bill that is here. We are concerned that this should also be included in patient rights legislation. Today, patient rights legislation has three main criteria: the severity of the state, the expected benefit of measures and the cost-effectiveness of measures. We also believe that social needs need to be taken into account in prioritising measures under the Health Services Act, especially in the area of drug care. The Patient Rights Act must reflect these three main criteria that I mentioned. At the same time, it needs to be further developed in the sense of emphasising social and geographical justice to ensure that it becomes a good enough priority tool also for drug users. In this context, there is reason to mention that the members of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party and I, on behalf of the Central Party, say that Oslo relations are not always transferable to other matters. Oslo is both a municipality and a county municipality and has a particular pressure in terms of drug treatment and treatment provision. So one has to be able to differentiate something more here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e195	Left sees the government's proposal to transfer parts of the county's responsibility for our drug addicts as part of many good measures that we need to take to save lives and, in general, improve the quality of life and the livelihood of our drug addicts. The goal must be a society with the least possible drug abuse and the highest possible harm reduction as a priority. There must be a low threshold for getting help and a high threshold for losing help. We need to establish administrative cooperation at all levels to open the connected doors between different relief measures, and all relief measures need to be evaluated so that we know what works best. Too many people will admit dependence on drugs and ask for help means demands for total subjection, loss of the most common civil rights and stigmatisation. Being socially destitute can never leak anyone. All of a sudden, it's a shame to be one that everyone can look down on. Many therefore do not seek help, even though life is never so difficult. Darketala's big. Many of our heavy drug addicts have complex problems. One has mental and physical health problems. It is then important that responsibility for the provision of health is placed at a single administrative level. The left voted against the transfer of the operation of our hospitals to the state administration level. However, when this is done, the responsibility for specialised services for drug addicts must also be transferred to regional healthcare providers, in order to provide a holistic service for all sufferings that these people have, to give them the same medical treatment rights and also to give equivalent status to those who are to work in this area. Basically, as a citizen, we have the same medical treatment rights. But I think we should be so honest to admit that many of our heavy drug addicts may not have felt like having the same rights to good health as many of us have. Auxiliaries require a change of posture and competence. Practically all hearing agencies have underlined the need for a holistic solution and for the treatment of all drug users. The left had probably wanted one to come up with a case where the entire treatment supply was assessed. But we see that it's urgent to get the grips that one needs, and we're happy that we're now getting the first part of the reorganization. However, it is important that steps two come as quickly as possible, so that no speculation is given as to what treatment is to be given according to who is to pay the bill. I understand that the hearing period for this has expired, and that the government is working on the matter. Today's organization is characterized by many actors, and not knowing who should take responsibility for helping you. Each drug addict needs his/her own rehabilitation plan. For some, treatment may take two years – for others ten years. Auxiliary devices must create custom planes for each individual, with the individual being allowed to make up a plan and the plan being made up. It is therefore important that responsibility be placed on a responsible body. In the view of the Left, it is the individual who is responsible for implementing the measures needed and who should be responsible for ensuring that the various agencies that need to enter the Help Supply are there and carry out their part of the rehabilitation. As I have said before, all measures need to be evaluated, including coercive measures. The best results are given if a motivation for action gives each individual the risk that one can get out of his abuse and regain quality of life and dignity, that one can manage himself. Trust is required instead of trust and control. In addition, coercive measures require far more resources than voluntary treatment. The government has given priority to improving the quality of life and the dignity of our drug addicts. Ein has strengthened the supply of health and has taken on the necessary reorganisations within today’s drug field. The social service, the social security system and the Aetat stand before an important merger. They also have important relief measures. One has looked at responsibilities and the change in funding. It is about using resources on the right measures, but it is also very much about attitudes, knowledge and competences, about the will and methods of multidisciplinary cooperation and cooperation across administration levels. I sincerely hope that all the people who will work to improve the supply of our drug addicts will see these as amazing individuals who must have the opportunity to manage themselves. This requires one to believe that each individual can actually get out of a long-term drug abuse by trusting and believing in his own abilities. I was at a meeting in Sandefjord yesterday where very many parts of the auxiliaries were collected. What they wanted, and what they wanted, were structured arrangements to tackle the problems, a holistic plan. They would not have competition between the different actors. They wanted less bureaucracy and more coordination. It requires that we take the right steps to ensure that they get this to help people who are drug addicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e231	Odelstingen is currently examining the Government’s proposal to transfer responsibility for specialised health services for drug users from the county to the state of regional health enterprises. Health services for drug users shall have the same organisation, the same legal basis as for other health services and give equal rights to patients. This reform will ensure that. The government’s objectives are better services and better treatment outcomes for drug users. To achieve this goal, we need to clarify responsibilities. We need to make better use of resources, and we also need to strengthen multidisciplinary efforts and cooperation between different services, and not least we need to develop the quality of our help and treatment services. It is the individual drug addict who needs to be in focus. The proposed legislative amendments imply that the State of the regional health establishments takes over: sectoral responsibility for specialised services to drug addicts who are members of the specialist health service owner’s responsibility for county municipal institutions providing such services, and obligation to enter into the county municipality’s agreements with private institutions providing such services for the responsibility of institutional places which may receive drug users under coercive decisions under the social services law §§6-2 and 6-2a. On its territory, i.e. in the field of specialist health care, regional health establishments shall identify institutions which may impose as conditions of admission the consent of drug users to forced detention. This is an important organisational intervention to improve treatment provision for drug users. Many drug users have extensive health problems and treatment needs, and there has been a need to clarify the responsibilities of health services for drug users. This reform provides the basis for ensuring a good health care provision and its further development within an overall state framework. A closer link with the specialist healthcare service involves the inclusion of patients’ rights and thus the right to necessary health care. From a user perspective, this means a clear strengthening of the position of the drug user in relation to the specialist healthcare service. The institutions which, on the basis of the proposal, are required to become State Parties or to become Contracting Parties to the Agreement are institutions which offer: detoxification, by referral, which requires close medical and health follow-up medical examination and monitoring of appropriate treatment needs specialised and essential health care, outpatient or institutional care; In the proposition, the characteristics of these institutions are further clarified. The concrete review of which institutions will become a State responsibility will start immediately and will take place in cooperation between the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the counties, the private institutions and health businesses. The implementation will follow the pattern of the hospital reform. As a result of the hospital reform, three levels of administration were introduced in the care of drug users. In the hospital reform, some county treatment measures for drug users went to the state of regional health enterprises. It concerned institutions and measures which had a legal basis in health legislation. Institutions and measures provided for in the Social Services Act remained in the county, although several of them belong as naturally in the specialist health service as those who went to the state. That's what we're cleaning up right now. This is the first step in a comprehensive review of interventions for drug users. I want a two-level model of treatment measures for drug users, as the committee also points out in the vote. The Ministry of Social Affairs sent out a consultation note at the end of November last year, proposing a reorganization of the remaining county responsibility, the social services, and adding responsibility for these to the municipalities. The consultation round has just ended. The Ministry is now working on a bill that I intend to present before Easter, so that the two reforms can come into force at the same time, from 1 January 2004. I understand that it might be desirable to deal with this together, but at the same time, I see that regardless of the solutions we choose for social services, we need to be able to decide on and decide that the health services of drug users should have the same organisation and legal basis as other health services. There should be equal rights for these patients as for other patients. That is what we ensure through this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e279	No one has asked for it – well, it's a string change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e282	I'm so used to having the last line that I thought it was good time to ask for a line. So to what I should have said in my post, and that was omitted. It's a little important for the conclusion, but time was running out. It is a matter of taking a final position to the level and solution as a whole. In the same way as the Workers' Party, we say that we want an overall assessment when Rusreform II comes, and we want to take a final position on the level and consequences of this care. So to the question of the social minister who pointed out interdisciplinary efforts and the quality and diversity of the auxiliaries. I am somewhat concerned, on the basis of the definition referred to by the Minister of Social Affairs in relation to institutions that are now going to enter into the state's ownership and have State operational responsibilities, that too much emphasis is being placed on the health profession and too little attention on the broad social sector in the work on rehabilitation and return to the most normal life. We have a number of good institutions working in social rehabilitation, not least in cooperation with private and non-profit institutions. I just want to ask the Minister for Social Affairs: which of these institutions can she guarantee to join this two-model system and become a state responsibility? It is very important that we also get with institutions that have broad social rehabilitation efforts as their primary objective and task, and that it not only becomes the medical offer that it is focused on, so that we get a hit side that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e293	Work on the review of the institutions will now take place immediately after the treatment of Rusreform I, and the point is that the institutions naturally included in the specialist health service are related to state acquisition. It is equally important at the next crossroads to ensure that we have good social institutions. We have already started that work in relation to the hearing opinions we have received. I realized that the representative of Lutvold was also concerned that this had to be linked. You have to handle it, and there shouldn't be games between the different levels of government. There are three levels of government today. My starting point is that two holds. And what is part of the binding tissue in this reorganization is that drug addicts, and especially those who have complex problems, are to be linked by tissue, that you have to have an individual plan. This will apply in the specialist health service, but it will also apply in our proposal on social services that have been out of consultation now. For example, both in the municipality, state and other bodies that are now affected, there is a need to take care of themselves and to have clear responsibilities in relation to work and housing. But it's not like you should be able to say, "This isn't my table." The individual plane will be something of the glue to ensure just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e300	Although the Progress Party and I should have wanted this proposition to be a complete proposition so that we could know the professional content of the future, I am very pleased that we are now really transferring the health responsibility from social legislation to health legislation. It's taken a long time. Already in 1992 I promoted the first proposal in this way here in the Stortinget. It's gone a little bit, but now I'm looking at the goal. I hope the goal is to raise the human dignity of those drug addicts. So far, they've been a pariah, not only in society, but also in the auxiliaries, it's in both health and social terms. My question to the Council of State is on capacity. When it comes to negotiating with county municipalities, we know that there has been too little capacity for treatment in county municipalities. This has led to major problems for the individual who is currently motivated for treatment but who cannot be provided space. Will the ministry now negotiate with the county councils to ensure that the capacity is good enough to see that there is not enough room? In this context, will some private institutions also be included in a proper and authorised healthcare system?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e309	In principle, this is a cleaning-up of a liability that became unexplained in relation to the hospital reform. What we are now making clear is that drug users should have the same right as everyone else to the necessary specialised health services. Now, it is natural for the Minister of Health to get closer to what goes on following the economic settlement in relation to this reform. However, it is clear that the calculation of extracts from the county council framework will be based on the technical data, i.e. the 2002 accounting data and the actual costs of the services. This means, in principle, that neither the State nor the county should change the financial conditions resulting from the acquisition of the institutions, in other words, the actual figures and not calculation keys. I understand that Alvheim is also concerned with the fact that private institutions with which the county has agreements, and which are thus covered by the specialist health service, will be part of the institutions that will form the basis for an agreement with the regional health companies. I expect the Minister of Health to comment on this in his statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e316	I perceive that being able to help drug users often becomes a question of the purely concrete measures in the current situation in order to reach them and to be able to provide help quickly. This means that referral practices actually have a very important role to play. What we are seeing today is that when a local social office is going to be in charge of a referral, they are doing the best they can, but medical evaluations are going to be completely lacking in such a referral. For example, you want to do this. have not previously taken blood samples from the patient or examined the patient with regard to somatic or mental status. Such a reference will not be anchored in a professional, comprehensive assessment of the kind of medical measures that would be appropriate. This means that when you go into and change from practice, it is actually important to consider how to secure the primary, professional assessment. So the question is, what kind of role should social action play in the future in relation to references? Is it thought that social action should continue to be referred to, but that in that case there must be a medical statement? Or do you think that social action as a whole should not play a role in referrals, and that this should be fully in the primary health service? I could imagine hearing the Social Minister's assessment here, simply because I think it has practical significance. If you don't get involved with the professional side, it could mean that patients who should have had treatment immediately don't get it. They have to wait a long time, and in the worst case, they will simply be killed as a result of the long duration of treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e323	The representative of Ballo raises an important question. Specialist health services should follow the system of specialist health services. It will not be proposed that drug users should be required to have referrals to contact or seek emergency tasks transferred to the State by regional health establishments for the purpose of this proposal. The Ministry of Health also aims to establish this through regulations. I also expect the Minister of Health to comment on this. For long-term stays in institutions transferred to the country by the regional health establishments in the context of this reform, the general approach of the Special Health Service Act will apply with requirements, inter alia, for: the development of individual plans and the right to review based on cooperation with the various actors, including the social service. Cooperation is needed between the various departments, the municipal social service, the municipal health service, the specialist health service and the county council.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e332	We'll have an opportunity to discuss the whole of this at a later stage. There are several of us who have been here today. With what the Council of State said now, she stresses the need for a clear responsibility as an important starting point. The country shall have specialised health services. Governments are probably letting the cats out of the bag today when she says that the government is suggesting that the social institutions become a municipal responsibility. With all sorts of reservations about, of course, reading the entire proposition when it comes, I have to say that some of what I'm afraid of is that with the system you're now adding up, we get a situation there, for example. a heroin user who may be a potential participant in, for example: a methadone project, becoming a patient. He/she is granted patient rights. The person becomes a State responsibility. He comes within a system of clear financing and a clear economy. On the other hand, a polydrug user, a youth who attends party baptism, extacy, who needs long-term treatment in a social institution, has a treatment there, for example. a medicine that methadone will not help. He won't be a patient. He/she will not be granted patient rights. He/she will not fall under a clear State economic responsibility but will deal with a very tight municipal budget. I fear an A-layer and a B-layer, where parents with great seriousness should study what their children depend on. If it's heroin, the state is responsible. Is it extacy, go to the social office and hope for better times!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e343	I hear that the representative Hanssen is anticipating the treatment of Rusreform II. I do not intend to do so, for whatever organisation you wish for the other services that are provided to drug users at county level today, it is clear that specialist health services should be organised as and have the same rights as other specialist health services. That's what we're dealing with today. As far as Rusreform II is concerned, I am going to follow up on what goes on at two levels of government, and that the county council is no longer going to play a role. We have had a consultation note out there with proposals for transfer to the municipalities, with closeness to the other municipal services where the user lives, in line with the very task-sharing principle. The consultation period has just expired. We aim to return to Stortinget before Easter with a proposition that allows us to see this in full, and to have the simultaneous entry into force of Rusreform I and Rusreform II on 1 January 2004. The government is not only concerned with linking measures for drug users. They have to work, too. This means that all agencies, not only social and health services, but also the other services, should be able to do their best to enable individuals to cope with and escape from their drug abuse and to be part of their local environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e352	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e355	This responsibilities reform is, as the Minister for Social Affairs said, proposed to follow the same principles as were used in the state’s takeover of the specialist healthcare service. Russreform I is a natural consequence of the hospital reform. Through the proposal to transfer the remaining county responsibility for institutions providing specialised health services to the state of regional health enterprises, the Government wants to ensure a good health care provision for drug users and their further development within a comprehensive organisational framework. The proposal clarifies the responsibility of specialist health services for drug users and facilitates their compliance with their medical treatment rights in line with other patient groups. It will, in the Government’s view, facilitate a strengthened and better provision of healthcare for this group. In addition to the regional health enterprises being given the responsibility for this field, the country has a direct ownership position. It facilitates the further development of the use of the instrument in this area. I would therefore like to follow up on the drug reform and ask regional health businesses to give priority to the field, so that the intentions of the reform are followed up. The new organisation of the drug sector initially gives better conditions for realising and meeting the desire for differentiation, specialisation and cooperation. Furthermore, it also allows for a greater degree of effectiveness in the long term. With regard to the implementation of the reform, a project has been set up in the Ministry of Health to prepare for the state takeover of the treatment services covered by the reform. In the spring of 2003, processes will be carried out to clarify which institutions will be transferred to the State by regional health enterprises. In addition, processes will be carried out to transfer personnel, contracts with private, buildings and properties, etc. to regional health establishments, in line with the principles laid down in the proposal. The implementation will be seen in the context of Rusreform II and will take place in close cooperation between the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health and stakeholders. We attach great importance to seeking good and orderly cooperation with the individual county council, with the municipalities, the private actors and the employees' organisations in this context. In 2003, I have already asked regional health companies to implement the steps required to facilitate such a takeover. Furthermore, an extraction process from county municipalities will be initiated according to the hospital reform model, which will enable health businesses to bear their responsibilities for this field in budgetary terms. That work will be managed by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. Let me then say a little bit more about my intentions with the responsibility that is now being proposed to the Ministry of Health. Substantial problem drug users often do not have the capacity to take advantage of healthcare as organised by these services. Health services must therefore be offered in a different way to drug users than is usual for the general population. Accordingly, health services to drug users must be provided on a substantial scale, at a low threshold, close to the settings in which drug users live. In addition, the nature of the services must be such that they are easily accessible. Low threshold health measures could include a wide range of services. In this context, cooperation between local health services and specialist health services will be particularly important, cooperation on individual drug abusers and the transfer of competences from the specialist health service to the community health service. The specialist healthcare service needs to be made clear its responsibilities in order to be able to provide the best possible assistance to low-threshold health services. Coherent chains of services are important not least for heavily problem drug users. There is a right to an individual plan for persons with long-standing and complex needs for services. This right to individual level is enshrined in both the Municipal Health Service Act and the Specialist Health Service Act. In the case of state acquisitions of specialised health services to drug users, individual plans could be an important instrument for many drug users with a long-standing need for different types of health care. Individual plans could thus contribute to a more systematic work, a more comprehensive offer, a more coordinated offer to the individual. Experience suggests that health services at all levels need to strengthen their competence in drug abuse. The government, in its treatment of the State budget for this year, has been given the consent of the Stortingen to increase the competence of healthcare in this field. This will concern both the municipal health services of the fixed medical system and the specialist health services. I agree with those who have said in this debate that drug users have been regarded for a long time as a paria caste in society and in healthcare, not through expressed statements, but through practices and actions. I hope that through this reform we will lay the basis for a healthcare service for this group that treats them in a completely different way as the equivalent people they are to all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e384	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e387	In this debate, I think many times I have said that the reform that Odelstinget is dealing with today means that the specialist healthcare service is now also given a clear and clear responsibility to drug users. It is said in such a way that one could almost see an undertone that the specialist health service has not been responsible for people with a drug problem until today. That's not the case. Of course, the specialist healthcare service is also responsible today for treating drug users, perhaps not for their drug abuse, but for the diseases that are often associated with drug users. In the evening post yesterday, it was quite a big look at a new report on drug users that the evening post chose to call ‘Right from the hospital to the street’. The report points out that hospitals take in those drug users who are morbid, but the threshold is very high. After hospitalisation, drug users are released directly to the street without follow-up or medical treatment. The decision-makers experience a lack of power in relation to the massive needs of drug users, and the Legevact treats many drug users for acute medical problems, but does not control the necessary follow-up to treatment. This is not a pleasant reading in any way. My question to the Minister of Health is positive and open in the sense that here it is not only a question of clarifying responsibility through law, but also about an attitude, a view of the drug addict that is not being cleared up by law, but through a significant activity. What kind of plans does the Minister of Health have in that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e396	I think everyone involved in this field in this room knows humility in relation to the complexity of the challenge we face in the drug field. At the same time, there should also be recognition across the same dividing lines that a sufficiently good and comprehensive offer is not being made today. There are many reasons for this. One of the reasons for this is that the responsibilities of healthcare are unclear, because some specific arrangements exist for drug addicts as patients who are not available to other patients. It is some of the normalization that is taking place through the reform we are adopting today. And that's in itself important. I also fully agree with the representative, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, that an overall approach is needed. Law enforcement is one thing. Clear responsibilities are important, but cooperation is even more important. The best starting point for cooperation is that you know what you are responsible for and what others are responsible for. Then you have to have tools for cooperation. Both the Social Minister and I have pointed out and wanted to give authority to the tools contained in individual plans. We all have to admit that this is a demanding patient group to offer a complete offer, to give a long-term offer. However, the more important it is to use individual plans where the responsible parties have to commit themselves to the individual. I think that's some of the answer. In addition, much of the answer is needed to increase competence. I believe that some of the attitudes that are sometimes expressed by the healthcare community – I was saying – are literally not bad, but are based on a lack of competence in relation to the challenges that this special patient group is facing. It has been addressed by the Government by proposing appropriations for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e405	I think it was very positive in the Minister of Health's speech now in view of the future and the practical implementation of the reform in relation to this patient category. Make the threshold, make it easily accessible, and then I will add – it was also the Minister of Health at the heart – attitudes in the healthcare system. The horror story to which the representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen referred is joining a thousand similar relationships that we have recorded over the years. I am pleased that it has already been thought through which competence needs to be provided in health businesses to prepare this transition. I'm glad it's thoughtful. Then I want to go back to – and that's really what my question is about – the post of the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo regarding the role of the decision-makers in this. It is clear that we must have a system in which decision-makers also take their share of responsibility. I have probably recorded that there has been some resistance to this, at least in the press. But if you are going to have a really professionally sound approach, you have to follow the same routine we do in other contexts with regard to the treatment of other patients: you have to get inside the doctor, you have to have a preliminary investigation if you want to do the best, and if you don't have to play too much time. My question to the Minister for Health is this: Have you taken or are you planning to contact the Norwegian Medical Association in this context in order to prepare this reform in relation to the responsibility of the decision-makers?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e414	Like the Minister of Social Affairs, I would like to stress the importance of the reform we are now implementing in order to clarify the responsibilities of health services, which also means that responsibility is exercised in the whole of the healthcare treatment chain, both in terms of prevention, primary health services and the specialised offer and in terms of rehabilitation. In this way, I think that there is a lot left to wish for in relation to the role of the decision-makers in this. I have visited municipalities where they have a very clear role, and I have seen how it can work. I think it's a challenge in the future to find a good form of this, while it should not be the case, as the Minister for Social Affairs also pointed out, that there is a higher threshold for consumption in acute specialised institutions. We don't intend to do that in the form of any requirement for referral from the firm in such situations. When it comes to contacting the Norwegian Medical Association, I have discussed these questions with the Medical Association's management, and I find good reason to pursue such a dialogue in more binding forms after the Odelstingen now agrees with this bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e423	My question goes a little in the same direction as the committee leader's, which I think was a constructive approach to the whole question of caring for the professional, and also in terms of referrals. What is recorded in relation to drugs, and not least in relation to new drugs, is that there are diagnostic difficulties. New party baptisms are difficult to figure out, because they give atypical symptoms, as opposed to, for example, alcohol, where the effects are well known, and which is dose-related. What you can see is that professionals are often blind. What we're also recording is that it's a bit random what kind of professionals get involved in the drug field. Some psychiatrists, such as Spring in Oslo, have become involved. We've seen some interns do that. There may be surgeons who, through transplant surgery, become it. But it's hard to see that you've taken an overall approach where you have a kind of specialty related to the drug field. Today, in medicine, you have a number of subspecialities after you first have a kind of specialty. That's why I also thought in the same direction as the committee leader, that it had to be close to discussing with the Medical Association to strengthen the field of drugs and look at today's specialities: how do you capture this in such a way that the psychiatrist as a psychiatrist has enough knowledge of it, and that the internal physician has it? Or you could just imagine that there are opportunities to go further in the field and have a kind of specialty related to it, while, of course, you have to expect that both the doctor, a psychiatrist, an internal surgeon or a surgeon have basic knowledge in this area. So I'm also a little bit questioning about how the Minister of Health thinks that professionalism is going to be concretely ensured in the further development, without me now and here expecting answers to all the questions. There are, of course, wide-ranging questions to be asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e436	The question of competence is extremely central to the further development of this service, and therefore we are spending money on it in the current year. At the same time, the representative Ballo raised a question of competence also in relation to the content of education and specialist training in the drug field. I think that is a very interesting question, which I will take the initiative to discuss with the National Council for Specialist Training of Doctors and other relevant forums. Because I think a few people are going to change what we're all concerned about, that a meeting between the individual human being and the services should get better, we have to raise the status of this field. It goes through competence, and it goes through education, not necessarily by creating new specialties, because I think both the representative Ballo and I are concerned that specialisation in some areas can go too far. But in general, how to raise the status of this subject in the health professions, I will focus on the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e441	It has been stated several times here today that it is gratifying that we are now receiving comprehensive treatment and evaluation of individuals who have drug problems on the drug side. I agree. But I get a little worried when I hear things that I can easily summarize: Specialist health services are specialist health services and are to be treated as specialist health services. Then I'm afraid that we're in a too narrow track, with A4 thinking, and that the more social aspects will be gone when we're now clearly going to put the responsibility on the health profession. Individual treatment plans are important, and they should preferably be there before he/she may be involved in specialist health care. It is not just the press that has been concerned that it is the decision-maker or the primary doctor who is to have the right of referral. Among the hearing bodies, many are concerned about this. What worries me the most is perhaps not the system for this to go through, but the determination of the drug user’s needs to be taken into account for which relief measures are to be put in place and which institutions to enter into. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Health: if you are not going to give the social action the right of referral, is there not at least a need for cooperation between the health and social sector at the first line level when you get the reference, so that you are referred to appropriate help measures? And I'd like to see that at least you had some trial plans where social affairs also had the right to refer, to see if there was any difference, and whether it was such that you could practice both parts. I am very afraid of the specialist healthcare system now: rapid treatment, rapid discharge.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e448	The keyword's concern went again like a red thread through this line. I am also concerned, and that is why we are promoting proposals for reform. Both Rusreform I and Rusreform II show that we are more than concerned about how these services are cared for in relation to a vulnerable group. But we can't let the worry paralyze us so that we don't act and don't stick out a course, and we do now. The representative of Lutvold must have heard very poorly after both the Minister of Social Affairs and my contribution when he calls for interaction and cooperation across the disciplines. It was a clear message from both responsible state councils, and we have both underlined the importance of the individual plan as a tool for anchoring the involvement of the various responsible bodies in this way. I also assume that at the lowest level of service. But I can't see the need now to launch a referral attempt from the social office. This has been tried for decades, and the fact that this system is not working properly is why it has now been chosen to make changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e455	No more words have been asked for a line. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 310]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e473	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there are no repetitions after the individual speeches and that those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e480	The background to this case is now under consideration in Odelstinget, which the Committee had in connection with the examination of Ot.prp. No 29 for 1998-99, on the Pharmacy Act. In this respect, a unanimous committee asked the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to amend Section 20 of the Medicines Act, so that one could have a review of this field, which specifically concerns the prohibition of medical advertising. In view of this, the Government has promoted the proposals for legislative changes that we now have to deal with in Odelstinget. There is an all-round unanimous committee behind the whole setting. In this respect, it is worth noting some of the comments made by the Committee on this subject. The Committee shall, inter alia: a review of the so-called current list of claims of a wide-ranging sample is carried out. The purpose of this review is, in the Committee's view, to improve the practice of informing about natural resources. It is important that the customer is provided with the information necessary for the individual to make his or her own free choice as to what a person wishes to benefit from in order to maintain his or her own health. Furthermore, it is worth noting that a unanimous committee asks for an evaluation to establish a separate department of natural resources within the State Medicines Agency to ensure that an individual holds sufficient competence in this field at all times. This is also important as it could lead to better cooperation and greater understanding between industry and the authorities in this area. The use of natural products and medicinal products is very widespread, and all signs in time suggest that more and more people want to benefit from these types of products. In order to be able to maintain their own health in the best possible way, it is important to facilitate this. It is also important that one is given the opportunity to be able to inform about the individual products so that the customer knows how to use the product, but at the same time in such a way that these products are not confused with other medicinal products. In this context, I would like to refer from the setting on page 9, which reads: ‘With the wide range of such products already available, it is reasonable to assume, in the Committee’s view, that the lack of product information, combined with non-effect requirements, would rather increase than reduce the presence of unprofessional operators on this market, as this would make it almost impossible for consumers to obtain information on the products placed on the market.’» This is very important to have included in the further work on this matter. In conclusion, I would like to pay tribute to the industry for constructive input into this matter. As you will be able to read from the Committee's position, the Committee's wishes will be met in a number of areas. I look forward to this work being done on the rails, so that we will also be able to have in this area a regulation and a practice that is to live with both for the industry and for customers and authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e507	The rapporteur gave a clear explanation of the matter. I also took note of the rapporteur's final remark that this matter relating to herbal medicinal products and natural products now needs to be dealt with. I really want to hope that there will be rails that don't lead into a blind track, because it seems like that's where the case has been for years. The Social Committee was in China in the previous period and saw a part of herbal remedies at the time. We waited later in suspense for the Aarbakke Committee's investigation. We have also repeatedly called for a review of alternative treatments, not on the basis of a kind of broad understanding that any alternative treatment may have a documented effect, but on the basis of a need to clean up the field, so that consumers should know what they are dealing with. In the case of different products currently sold in health food shops, it must be very difficult for consumers to be able to inform themselves in the existing market. I record that there has been a correspondence between the Swedish Agency for Medicinal Products for Human Use and the Swedish Agency for Medicinal Products, and that some letters have also been sent to the Minister of Health to inform them about various individual matters. When you go into that correspondence, I have to say that I am surprised at how many of the cases have taken. I am also surprised at the role that the State Medicines Agency seems to play, because first you become a first-time assessor, and then you become an assessment body in connection with a possible appeal. Here it seems like there's a great need to clean up. A number of producers who are to sell their products on the market experience unforeseeability and are being countered in order to prepare the premises for the sale of those products and perhaps also economic ruin. It must be much better that you have clear guidelines that make the different producer and seller of the products know in advance what you have to do with it, than that you discover in the course of the process that you have made investments or want to sell products, and then the premises have changed, and you won't be able to get what you had in mind. Both from the correspondence I have seen with the Natural Resources Industry Council, and also from the social committee's contacts with hearings, I feel that the Industry Council wants it to be cleared up in these circumstances. I am unable with my best will to see that there should be some contradiction between it and political desire for the same thing. From the point of view of the SV, I would like to stress that we now expect the Government to address the issues raised by the Committee, in such a way as to move forward, and that we do not need to have new rounds, for example. These questions are related to the state budget or subsequent proceedings, because we see that the ministry, possibly at administrative level, is training them. We have to expect that there will be a rapid clarification in line with what is not just the position of the majority, but actually the position of a unanimous social committee, in order to get clear driving rules and predictability for the industry in terms of the sale of herbal medicinal products and natural products.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e520	It is gratifying that we can now finally deal with this matter, and it is also gratifying to note that it is a unanimous committee that is behind the setting. There have been some changes from the document presented by the government, but I think the government deserves a favor for finally getting out of the blind track that, among other things, has. Mr Ballo referred to. For many years on the part of the Social Committee, we have called for a proper regulatory system for natural products and medicinal products. The Aarbakke Committee's investigation has been there for several years, and it is therefore gratifying that this matter has now been dealt with. But one can, as also the representative Ballo was in on, marvel at the dialogue, or lack of it, that has been going on for many years, not least between the Natural Resources Industry Council and the Medical Products Agency and the authorities that were supposed to and were able to address this. I think there's a reason to notice that, among other things. The Pharmaceuticals Association, the Pharmaceuticals Association, the Norwegian Apothecary Association and the Consumers' Council are in favour of a labelling and a product declaration on natural products and of a labelling in cases where this is not a medicinal product. The Committee has agreed to propose that the product be worded as follows: ‘This is not a medicinal product. If the condition persists, contact your doctor so that you do not try to seduce anyone. The same applies in the case of control of the efficacy of the product. There the Committee says that it believes that the Medical Products Agency should have control of this type of product in order to verify the nature of the product’s properties. If verification of product characteristics shows that there is no medicinal effect, it should be stated on the product: ‘Documented power not available’. An overall committee also believes that the Norwegian Register of Natural Products has competence in this area and a system for the control of products and different ingredients contained in the products, and one must be able to capitalise on some of this knowledge in the work of the Medical Products Agency. I hope that one now, with the background of this case, will have a clean system in which one can distinguish between herbal medicinal products and natural products, and that one also creates a borderline between the work of the Medical Products Agency and that of the Food Safety Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e531	On the basis of a unanimous vote, it might not be necessary to attach so many comments to the matter from my side, but it was the representative of Ballos who made me ask for the word. I must reserve myself against some of the characteristics expressed by the representative Ballo in relation to parts of the administration. Concepts of training, etc. I can't agree. This is a demanding field. I think everyone who's been trying to get into it will see that there's no simple landscape to maneuver in. But I want to say something about how I intend to follow up on the good basis that I believe a unanimous committee position now provides to move on. The central issue of the proposition is the extent to which health claims are to be used in marketing. The purpose of classifying products as medicinal products is to ensure that the product is scientifically controlled and that marketing is carried out only within the framework of scientific evidence. It is related to the fact that, as opposed to food, medicinal products must be authorised according to the criteria of quality, safety and efficacy before they can be sold. In this respect, the proposition also raises the question of the requirements to be imposed on the documentation required for the approval. Of course, these issues are of great commercial importance for the natural resources industry. They want greater access, naturally enough, to make use of health claims in the placing on the market without, for that reason, classifying the products as medicinal products and triggering requirements for the authorisation of the quality, safety and efficacy of the products. But these issues are also of great importance for public health. Authorisation according to scientific criteria is important to prevent inert products from being sold and used for displacement for important medicinal products. It is of particular importance that prior checking ensures that the products do not contain a content other than that indicated in the declaration. I also stress that prior checking according to scientific criteria is the best protection for consumers from misleading marketing. The proposal recommends that the definition of the medicinal product be retained as it is in the current pharmaceutical law. It ends a unanimous committee about. It ensures that Norwegian law at this point will continue to be consistent with that in our Nordic neighbouring countries and in large parts of Europe elsewhere. On this basis, and in the light of the expressed desire of several teams to allow the natural product industry further access to the use of medical claims, I have proposed an extension of the herbal medicinal product scheme. This scheme combines public health and consumer concerns with the industry's need to inform more widely about its products. The importance of giving each person the best possible means of managing his or her own health is underlined in several places in the committee position and in the rapporteur of the case. I agree with this starting point, and as you know, I'm not a stranger to use alternative methods in this context. I refer here to Ot.prp. No 27 for alternative treatment. I therefore understand the desire for easier access to information on natural products intended to promote health but not authorised as medicinal products. However, I am also concerned with the consideration given to consumers who claim that there is a legislation that makes it possible to prevent misleading marketing and excessive expectations of the effects of products. This is particularly so because it is beyond doubt that more products have not been shown to have an effect on the natural resources market. It calls for a degree of caution in what should be permitted by undocumented health claims. On this basis, and in the light of the unanimous vote of the Committee, I would like to ensure that a wide-ranging selection is established to review the border between medicinal products and foodstuffs, including the list of health claims taken into account. I have noticed that the Committee asks for an evaluation of a system of prior authorisation of natural products to be added to a possible new department of natural products in the State Medicines Agency. I will assess the administration and legislation in this area and report back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner. In this context, I will also look at the boundary between the supervisory functions of the Agency and the food authorities. I would like to look at the documentation to be required in the case of a specific authorisation scheme for natural resources. I see a need to go into these issues carefully, and will, on the basis of that, come back to the Storting with an assessment of these questions raised here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e552	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e555	It is the sovereign duty of the Council of State to defend its own office. Since the Storting in principle only knows the Council of State, it is clear that the correct address for criticism must be the Council of State, if nothing happens in the matter. But it may also be good for the civil service to be aware that the criticism will most likely come, if the matter is not followed up. I would like to quote from a letter from the Swedish Natural Resources Council. The letter is dated 29 October 2002 and is addressed to the Ministry of Health by the Council of State Høybräten. I have received a copy of the letter. It says: ‘The legal certainty of the fuel is perceived as zero as it is not unusual for our follow-up to the reactions of the authorities to be trained for years. The result is that products cannot be placed on the market to follow the procedures of the authorities. In addition, we find that the professional assessments relating to an appeal lack of stability by using the Department as a Board of Appeal the first instance, the State Medicines Agency, as a professional reference in the appeal proceedings of the Department.’ So it's given some examples. I have also seen other letters about it. I have to say after reading the correspondence, that I agree with the industry myself. When you first ask to document conditions and then during the process, suddenly you have to document completely different conditions that were not initially withdrawn, it may seem that there is a point at any price to prevent that product from being placed on the market. I believe that it must be really not to grant an authorisation, if the product does not correspond to what is expected, or what you create the impression. But then the premise must be clear in advance. It must not be such as to alter the rules of the game along the way, so that it is impossible for the industry to deal with the Medical Products Agency and, for that matter, the Department. I think it is reasonable to expect the Council of State to clear up the situation, in line with what a unanimous committee has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e565	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 313]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e581	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 10 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e590	The proposal for a new Biobanks Act is based on NOU 2001:19 Biobanks – The collection, storage, use and destruction of human biological material. Like many other European countries, Norway has systematised collections of human biological material that go back several generations in time. Norway has well-developed maintained health records and a stable population that has enabled high-quality biological studies. There is currently no comprehensive legislation on biobanks. In order to ensure that the population has the necessary confidence and acceptance of biobanking activities in Norway, it is important to seek the transparency, transparency and security of the functioning of the biobanks, so that society can intervene, coordinate and, where appropriate, stop the collection and use of material, if this is to develop in an unthinkable direction. The Committee is aware that both the Data Protection Authority and the National Medical Research Ethics Committee disagree with the establishment of their own biobanking law, they believe that regulation of biobanking activities can be linked to, for example, the Health Register Act and the Data Protection Act. A majority of the Committee rejects these objections from the Data Protection Authority and the NEM and agrees to the adoption of a separate Biobank Act. In this context, an overall committee emphasises that it is more topical today to regulate biobanking because of the rapid development of DNA technology. This means that, in many cases, mutagenicity may be investigated in humans who have died too long and such studies may provide information useful for the medical investigation of people living today. DNA information in the future can have a major impact on the choice of therapy for disease and can help one refrain from using drugs that can either have major adverse effects on some, or may be ineffective in others. An overall committee agrees that in the future biobanks can be a potential resource for industrial development. A distinction is made between diagnostic biobanks, treatment biobanks and research biobanks. Diagnostic biobanks contain material that has been obtained from studies or treatment of a specific patient. Treatment biobanks are collections of human biological material to be used for the treatment of a specific patient or specified patient groups. Research bio-banks are proposed in the proposition as a collection of human biological material and information directly obtained in the analysis of this material and used or may be used for research purposes. For example, reference can be made to the regional cohort of Norway and mother and children surveys. The current attitude is largely about the regulation of research biobanks, where it is provided that the National Institute for Public Health is to develop a strategy for the exploitation of data biobank material in the research biobanks. In the present position, there is not surprisingly a continuous majority for all the paragraphs of the law, consisting of the parties of government and the Socialist Left Party. This is the same constellation we have seen recently in dealing with all aspects of genetic and biotechnology. A minority of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have their own legal text for § 10 export of biological material, § 12 consent provisions and § 13 consent in the case of modified, expanded or new use of biological material. Another minority, the Progress Party, has its own legal text for the purpose section, § 1, where disease prevention and nutrition development are to be independent purposes, in line with the decision of the Biobank Committee and the suspension of several heavy hearing opinions. § 2 refers to the definition of biobanks and the practice of the law. The amendment is in line with the majority vote of the Biobank Committee. Paragraph 3 goes into the scope of the law, where the Progress Party replaces the word ‘treatment’ with ‘use’. This will be more in line with the future use of biobanks, as it is not always treatment that is involved, but the use of biological material. With regard to the proposal of Section 3 of the Progress Party, this is drawn, and we support the majority vote on the legislative text. To Section 4, the Progress Party promotes a new legal text equal to the position of a unanimous biobank committee, which is not as restrictive as the legal text of the suspension. As in previous cases, the Stortinget and Odelstinget have dealt with genetic and biotechnology issues, the majority of people who need new research, based on biobanks that can provide treatment opportunities where one today has little to offer, are, in my view, unilaterally concerned with the individual's right of self-determination and the requirements for personal integrity and little to do with the individual's need for new research. It is clear from the proposition and the position of the majority, which is in line with the opinion of the Ministry, that consideration of the donor and biological material should always be given priority to the interests of society and the population. This is in disagreement with the Advancement Party. In this context, the majority cannot refer to the Helsinki Declaration in support of its view, as the Helsinki Declaration in this context only covers the welfare of subjects when they are directly involved in a single experiment, it does not deal with biobanking. Finally, I take up the proposal of the Progress Party in the vote, with the exception of the proposal for Section 3, and proposals where the Progress Party is with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e609	John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e612	The Biobank Committee was, as you know, appointed because of the growing interest in the medical use of human biological material. The interest is a consequence of recent developments in medicine in general and in biotechnology and genetic engineering in particular. And, as the rapporteur has already said, Norway has comprehensive health records and several major health studies. We have many collections that go back generations. This is a good starting point for genetic population studies. The development of genetic technology has led to a renewed timeliness of previously collected material, including: because it is now possible to retrieve genetic data from tissue samples for use in research. The Biobank Act provides for the establishment of a national register of collections of human biological material in the country. The purpose of the law is to ensure that the collection, storage, processing and destruction of material contained in a biobank are carried out in an ethically sound manner and that biobanks are exploited for the benefit of the individual and society. Developments have made visible the value and potential of human biological material in medical research, treatment, research and industrial development. It's expensive to research, but our DNA collections are probably so interesting that we can expect international interest in them. Accurate DNA information will have a major impact on the choice of therapy and the use of drugs. The sample chose to define three types of biobanks: for the first diagnostic biobanks — a typical example are the pathological laboratories — for the second treatment biobanks, such as: blood banks, and thirdly, what is perhaps most related to social and industrial interest, namely research biobanks. In the original Bill of the Biobank Committee, economic development was also mentioned in the purpose paragraph. This has now been removed. It appears that the Ministry, in its design of the purpose paragraph of the Act, has set out a goal of greater biological insight and improved patient care, and that any development of nutrition based on this knowledge could be a positive by-product. We think this is not naive, so a little bit simple thought. It is clear that the Ministry of Health has special competence in the field of health and privacy. These are important interests in regulating biobanks, but these are not the most important aspects in the view of the Workers' Party. For example, data protection means: that no self-regulatory regulation is necessary. To put it at the forefront: in the draft law, the relationship between the individual and the biobank is over-regulated, while the relationship between the biobank and social interests is under-regulated. In particular, the National Research Ethics Committee is concerned that the law does not safeguard the social interests and emphasises that this is a prerequisite if the responsibilities of large sections of the population have been demonstrated by participation in major health studies to be reliably met. We usually agree to take care of and secure the natural resources of the nation. However, there is not always an agreement on how it should be done. It could have been equally natural to set up a state gene bank, for example: «State gene», as it was natural in its time to appoint State force. Such a company would have the objective of strengthening research and giving special rights to private operators. With the good starting point for research that our collections are, we have a desire for a stronger focus on Norwegian biotechnology research. Biotechnology is a key area of food and knowledge policy. It's a little strange that the Right does not place the same emphasis on this as the Advance Party and the Workers' Party. The bill deals with ethics and the individual, but is not particularly clarifying about future rights to any research results that are wholly or partly based on material in Norwegian biobanks. We are not sure that the subsequent legal regulation of employee rights or the inclusion of the EU patent directive will provide a good or definitive solution to the issues. We fear that the valuable material our genes are is not being properly valued. Some of the most interesting biobanks are small collections of single researchers. The negotiating power between the small collections and the large international companies is different and little value creation is likely to be left in Norway. It is realistic that the development and use of the knowledge potential of biobanks cannot be done without close cooperation with business interests. The level of investment and financing in these activities is such that public activities or research interests alone will not be able to do so economically. Therefore, there is a need for a law that also regulates such matters. There is a need for further follow-up to the issues related to the question of how and according to which rules biobanks can be used in the interests of society and for economic development. Until such follow-up is possible, we have chosen to propose some amendments to sections 10, 12, 13 and 14, together with the Progress Party. This is done in order to avoid limiting the opportunities for participation in research projects internationally. Consent rules are unclear and too extensive. We want to be able to make easier use of material from dead people. It will often be completely impossible to obtain some patients in order to get their consent and use material for new issues. Such consent should be granted by the research ethics committees. We also believe that an individual right of destruction should not apply to material obtained in connection with diagnostics and treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e640	This bill ensures the content of Norwegian biobanks as part of the Norwegian joint venture. It is therefore right, in the view of the government parties, that the law is based on the principle that no one owns a biobank but manages it on behalf of society and the individual gives. As a result, the position of the individual giver becomes strong in relation to the material he has given up. At the same time, it makes it possible to exploit content for the benefit of society and individuals within an ethically sound framework. The law emphasises respect for human dignity and the protection of privacy. The collection, storage and use of human biological material has become a major activity in medical research, treatment, diagnostics and nutrition development. The growing interest in the medical use of human biological material comes from the rapid development of medicine in general and biotechnology and genetic engineering in particular. This development has made visible the value and potential of human biological material for the development of diagnostics, treatment and research. Norwegian biobanks and health registers could provide a valuable basis for Norwegian business activities in medicine and biotechnology and be of great interest to the international pharmaceutical industry. Therefore, public governance and control are important. Valuable biobanking material shall be used for the benefit of the community, so that the individual's contribution to research and development benefits us all. Much of the research will continue to be funded and run privately in the future, especially under the direction of the international pharmaceutical industry. It is therefore important to have publicly controlled and, in particular, democratic access to bio-banks. Therefore, the proposal for a Biobank Act does not prevent international research cooperation and development of the pharmaceutical industry, but sets the necessary framework for the management of the biological material. The person responsible for the biobank may only charge its costs covered by the provision of information and access to research in the biobank's material, and donors shall ensure that the material is treated on the basis of the assumptions on which the material was released. The legal position and rights of the donor are an important basis for continuing the confidence of the population in the management of their own biological material. If this weakens, I am concerned that it will reduce the possibility of research and development, because many will refuse to give up material and information for research purposes. An important basis for this is the law definition of research biobanks, which ensure the equivalent management of information resulting from the analysis of the biological material. The action taken by the Proposition in relation to the distinction between diagnostics and treatment biobanks on the one hand and research biobanks on the other will, in our opinion, clear up a substantial part of the difference between the majority and minority proposals in the Biobank Committee. The proposition departs from the unanimous recommendation of the Biobank Committee only at the point related to economic development as part of the purpose paragraph. But at this point, there are important and heavy hearing bodies that support the content of the proposition. The possibility of industrial development will be strengthened by this law because it provides a common legal basis for the activity. This is not the purpose of the law, but the result of the law and a result of the research that will take place on the basis of the law. Of other areas that have been discussed, or for which there are majority or minority proposals, I would like to raise some questions. One relates to exports abroad. There are two issues. One is in relation to dead people, and the other is in relation to the benefits of necessary health care. With regard to the first point, this is captured in the second paragraph of Section 13 of the Proposition, which clearly states that there is an exception for consent when this is impossible or very difficult. In relation to health care benefits, I would like to refer to the fifth paragraph of Section 12, which also refers to the Patient Rights Act and the authorisation schemes associated with it. This would mean that the objections raised in the comments of the Labour Party and the Advance Party are not relevant to these issues. With regard to the consent provision, which has also been raised as a problem, the majority would agree that the general rule should be to have an express, voluntary and informed consent. This has a lot to do with the confidence of the provider of biomaterials in relation to its use in the future. And we are, as said earlier in the article, afraid that if this trust is weakened, the will to release material will also weaken. However, I would like to point out that I think the minority draws the interpretation of the term method in this paragraph far too far, and therefore I disagree with the basis on which they base their alternative proposal. The majority clearly specifies that in the concept of methodology, the method used to collect and process the biological material is one of the basic principles. It is therefore obvious that the Helsinki Declaration is relevant. If the minority wants a method not to be regulated by the law, their arguments are understandable in relation to the Helsinki Declaration, but then a patient also takes away these rights that are now clearly enshrined in the bill. So I come to the claim that the relationship between the individual and the biobank is over-regulated, while the relationship between society and the biobank is under-regulated. It's based on a relative to if one, for example. sees the ways in which one has chosen to organise this in Sweden and Iceland. However, I believe that the way in which one in this proposal has chosen to regulate keeps the balance between having a regulation on the part of society and regulating the interests of the individual in a good way, through the grip of saying that no one owns a biobank in sum. It is the individual who has released the material, who owns its material, and those who manage the biobank manage it on behalf of the donor and on behalf of society. Had either been done as in Sweden, chosen to define the ownership of a state institution, or as in Iceland, almost sold the country's biological material to a private enterprise, then one would set up very large conflict areas, as we already see both in Sweden and Iceland, and which would not least weaken the confidence of the individual to ensure that the material given away would be managed in a sensible way. It's just to refer to the legal cases that have arisen in Sweden, in relation to the commercialisation of this material.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e659	With the background of the article that was held by Bent Höie here, I see no need to speak for ten minutes, for the reasoning that Höie laid down on behalf of the Government, SV fully agrees. It is the case that the Government and the SV are consistent with the Biobanks Act and agree on the underlying reasoning. We've seen in a number of laws over the last few years that the individual's inviolability has been put in focus, and we've got individual-based rights. The Biotechnology Act is, of course, a perfectly obvious law to ensure, in relation to biological material, that individual rights are safeguarded and that the individual is protected. A few years ago, we experienced the same thing when it came to health records. And you get fundamental balances in relation to society's interests in other areas, for example. in the case of commercial activities and in the case of individual rights. SV is very pleased that there is a majority in the United Kingdom that is landing on the fact that the individual's rights should prevail in a number of areas, for example: development of industry, but maintaining the potential of industrial development, based on a non-inclusion point of purpose. There is a recital SV fully agrees. And we're very pleased that the Workers' Party and the Progress Party's views on that very area did not get a majority. We have received a patient rights law that strongly emphasises that patients in the healthcare system have rights, and with the law in hand can refer to those rights. There are elements of the same both in the Health Care Act and in the Special Health Services Act. We see the same thing about the Biobank Act. Some have thought that this law is unnecessary. In SV, we've made the point that it's not. You can see in other areas, for example: in the case of information technology today, it is so complicated in the case of different laws that it may be difficult to get an overview of the nature of the laws, regulations and rules in force. You get that overview by law of biobanks. SV looks forward to new rounds in other areas affecting biological material and individual-based rights related to it. It is not least a review of the Biotechnology Act. We believe that the balances made here ensure in a good and balanced way that the individual retains his or her rights in relation to his or her own genetic material, in relation to his or her own biological material, without at the same time creating the systems so heavy that it becomes impossible to make use of that material both for research and – on application and on the basis that the law also provides for it – for the development of nutrition. SV is happy to be able to participate and decide that the law gets the design that this one got.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e670	Today, nearly three years have passed since the first Bondevik government reduced a sample to look at the medical use of biological material. The aim was to ensure that the collection, storage, processing and destruction of material contained in a biobank is carried out in an ethically sound manner and is exploited for the benefit of the individual and society. The Christian People's Party is involved in all the majority proposals and appears to be the result that is being addressed today, shows that privacy and respect for human dignity and human rights have been taken into account. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to ensure that the content of Norwegian biobanks becomes a part of the Norwegian joint venture, while making a positive use of it for the benefit of Norwegian society within an ethically sound framework. Biological material has a high potential to provide better medical studies, better treatment and, in particular, to provide opportunities for research and nutrition development. In order to ensure that the Norwegian population has confidence and acceptance for the biobanking activity carried out in Norway, it is essential that they have transparency and information on biobanks. Most of us have given off tissues, cell tests, or for example. blood tests. Numbers show that we have samples from over ten million patients over four to five generations. Each year, for example, there will be: all newborns tested for Følling’s disease. These samples are now stored on filter paper and can be preserved and, if necessary, researched for a long time in the future. This proposition has not been quite easy to work with, because the investigation committee has been divided into several legal paragraphs. The Data Protection Authority and the National Medical Research Ethics Committee considered that a separate biobanking law was unnecessary. In addition, pathologists and bio engineers disagree. Much of the discussion and disagreement has also concerned information on the biological material to be included in the biobank. The Christian People's Party supports the distinction between treatment and diagnostic biobanks on the one hand and research biobanks on the other. This means that only the information associated with a research biobank is regulated by the law. I think this is going to be a good way to practice the law, which was confirmed at the hearings of the Social Committee. The Christian People's Party supports the majority with regard to the rules of consent. Informed consent is important for both collection, storage and processing. Consent shall be explicit and voluntary and shall be informed of the purpose, method, risk, discomfort and other consequences of the release of biological material. The majority state that adjustments to the research method will not require new consent as long as the objective of the research remains unchanged and that the concept of methodology is linked to the collection of material. Christian People's Party supports the setting of § 13 Changed, expanded or new use. Where it is difficult or impossible to obtain consent, the Ministry may grant a derogation after obtaining an assessment from a regional committee for medical research ethics. This committee does not have administrative status and therefore the department must take the final decision. Any person who has given consent may withdraw this at any time and require the destruction of the material. Health and personal data obtained during analyses or examinations of the material may be erased or disclosed. This option does not apply if the information is anonymous or is involved in scientific work. It is important that one does not limit research that can benefit most people. My party wants a priority stem cell research and sees the need for its own stem cell bank. The medical use of stem cells is under development and in the future all types of organ failure may be treated with cells developed from healthy stem cells. Large population surveys provide knowledge of the genes that develop disease. This provides good opportunities to prevent and prevent disease. It also provides a basis for industrial development. It's positive. But it must always be done in an ethically sound manner that also takes into account the national joint heritage represented by our biological data.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e698	The Biobank Committee presented its study in the summer of 2001 and contained areas for the collection, storage, use and destruction of human biological material. There's a lot of consensus in the majority here. The majority are government parties, SV and the Central Party. It is therefore that the undersigned will not go into all the details of the Biobank Act, but refer to what has been said about agreed positions in the constellation that constitutes the majority. It is important to take into account and respect the integrity of individuals and individuals. As regards the more technical structure of the Biobank Act, three types of biobanks are referred to. These are diagnostic biobanks, e.g. pathological departments of hospitals, treatment biobanks, perhaps the most well-known in relation to blood banking, and research biobanks. It is important to have a comprehensive set of rules and laws in this area that aim to create transparency, transparency and security in relation to the activities of biobanks. In this context, the Committee states that this should be done ‘in order to enable society to intervene, coordinate and, where appropriate, stop the collection, storage, and use of biological material if it develops in an unplanned direction’. I think there is some of the important things here in the drafting and processing of the law. So also says a broad majority, all except the Workers' Party, that the present legislative proposition is essentially focused on the «control and regulation of the research biobank by society where social interests and the security of individuals are ensured». This is what the majority are content with. That's why it's a little amazing, I think, that the committee leader says what he's doing today, about this with the social interests. The consent mechanism is important – with express and voluntary consent. And I don't think the relationship between the biobank and the individual is overregulated in this law. It is said from the Labour Party and the Advance Party. It is also said that one has underregulation in the relationship between the biobanks and social interests. I don't want to go that far, but I'm with the Working Party on a note in this setting where we say the following: ‘In the case of social interests, these members will point out that the significant resources invested in the public health sector indicate that these investments should be used to primarily benefit society. In this context, these members would point out that ownership, rights, democratic access to data, the exploitation of data, transparency and official control become important areas where regulation is required.’;» I expect that we will come back to this on later occasions, both in the case of biobanking in particular, and also in the case of larger and perhaps important things that will now affect this – I will come back to it in the end. That is also how we – in fact a broad majority, all except the Progress Party – say in the vote that it is ‘important with organisation, public governance and control’. And we're going to say, "Oh, my God. ‘Valid biobanking material shall be used for the benefit of the community, so that the individual’s contribution to research and development benefits us all. Much of the research will continue to be funded and run privately in the future, especially in the direction of and in cooperation with the international pharmaceutical industry. It is therefore important to have publicly controlled and democratic access to bio-banks.» I would like to stress this as strongly as I can. I believe that one of the first crossroads in this context will be the EU Patent Directive. Then we'll see if the will of the individual's security and the democratic transparency, governance and disposition of society are still there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e728	The proposition and setting that Odelstinget is dealing with today concerns a new and important regulation of areas of medicine and biotechnology and genetic engineering. To date, the collection, storage, use and destruction of human biological material has been unregulated or at best fragmentaryly regulated. The recent growing interest in human biological material has revealed the need for a separate law on biobanking activities related to human biological material and information that can be derived from this material. The field is in rapid development, and I believe it is crucial for this business that we now have a law establishing the main principles. The present bill is a follow-up to NOU 2001:19. With this proposal, the Government wishes to ensure the content of Norwegian biobanks as part of the Norwegian Joint Undertaking and at the same time to allow exploitation for the benefit of Norwegian society, within an ethically sound framework. A law on biobanks must focus on respecting human dignity and protecting the personal integrity of the individual. An important principle is that social and research interests should not prejudge the consideration and protection of the individual. Fundamental privacy considerations and principles of respect for human dignity, human rights and personal integrity are therefore highlighted as clear prerequisites in the purpose paragraph. The collection, storage and use of human biological material and information derived therefrom have gradually become a major activity in medical research, treatment, diagnostics and industrial development. The growing interest in the medical use of human biological material is a consequence of the rapid development of medicine. Developments have shown the value and potential of human biological material in the development of diagnostics, treatment and research. Norwegian biobanks and health registers could provide a very valuable basis for Norwegian activities in the field of medicine and biotechnology in the course of this development. I'm very positive about that. In view of the potential of the biobanks for commercial exploitation, I believe public governance and control of the biobank business is important. It is important that valuable biobanking material can be used in the best interests of the community, so that the individual's contribution to research and development benefits the community and society. Therefore, the draft law proposes that the creation of biobanks should be notified to the authorities. In the case of diagnostic biobanks and treatment biobanks, it shall include a notification within two months of the establishment of the biobank. However, in the case of research biobanks, there is a need for prior notification, so that the ministry has the possibility to control and, where appropriate, to intervene within 45 days if ethical considerations or overriding societal interests indicate that the biobank should not be established. The proposed Biobanks Act will, of course, impose limits on health records and the Data Protection Act. However, biological material itself and information derived therefrom have a character and a potential that the Government considers requires special regulation in order to ensure official control and ethically sound management. Furthermore, there is a need to regulate biobanking activities both in terms of person-identifiable and anonymised material. Although the identity of the donor of the material cannot be traced and privacy cannot be violated, protection can be important for human dignity and privacy. Biological material and information from this material must be handled and exploited with respect for the donor and only used for research in accordance with recognised research ethics principles. One of the aims of the Biobank Act is to facilitate the use of the material in biobanks for health purposes for the benefit of society. It is therefore important to ensure the autonomy of donors and the confidence of the population in biobanking. The collection of biobank material for research purposes requires the voluntary, explicit and informed consent of the donor of the material. As a general rule, the material and information collected shall not be exploitable to anything other than that to which it is consented. The donor shall be given good information on the purpose of the biobank and consent on the basis thereof. If the whole or part of the bio bank is to be used for commercial purposes or is to be delivered/borrowed to others, this must be in accordance with the consent of the donor of the material. The legislative proposal states that there should always be an opportunity to withdraw the consent. The donor shall be able to require the destruction of the biological material and the information provided and deleted. Except where the biobank material is included after processing in another biological product or has been included in scientific work. The legislative proposal also contains conditions for the establishment and closure of biobanks and detailed provisions for the organisation of biobanks and the exploitation of biobank material. I would also like to stress the provision that the export of material from biobanks to abroad is generally subject to approval by the Ministry. A similar provision can be found today in the Transplant Act § 10 (b). In conclusion, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the majority of the Social Committee has, in its position, joined the Government's proposal for the regulation of biobanks on all points. I feel that the disagreement expressed in the vote and in the debate here today is not fundamental, but is based on different balances between the different considerations that naturally apply here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e751	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e755	I registered that the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo said that when a representative from the government parties had made a post, it was basically unnecessary for him to make some post. If there can be practice in all matters related to genetic and biotechnology, it saves us time. But there's a paradox in this, and it's about the abortion law -- I'm not going to say more about it. In the government's bill, industrial activities built on research biobanks are excluded from the purpose section. However, it is written in the proposition that this does not prevent the commercial exploitation of biobanks. What does the Minister for Health really mean by not including business in the purpose section, while mentioning that commercial exploitation of biobanks can take place? In my view, to ensure the greatest possible predictability of future research and industrial development, this area should clearly be included in the purpose paragraph, as set out in the sample. As far as I know, this is part of the law both in the United Kingdom and in Sweden. Will the Minister of Health give me a comment and a better explanation as to what is the real reason for not including nutrition development in the purpose paragraph?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e764	To Mr. Alvheim's comment, which was probably more a line to the representative of Ballo than to me, on the constellations of this matter and in other matters in the bioethics field, I must say that the alliance that arises in such matters between the Workers' Party and the Advancement Party is no less remarkable than the consensus that the government parties and the SV have held in some such matters. As regards the issue of industrial development, it is clear from the proposition that the Government welcomes the fact that biobanks can imply and provide a basis for industrial development. What we have done differently from the sample is to raise the issue of industrial development as an independent objective of the law – into the purpose paragraph. There we believe that a purpose paragraph which is clearer is that the purpose of the law is to ensure the proper management of the biological material, to ensure privacy, to ensure personal integrity and to facilitate exploitation for health purposes, is more focused on what is the primary purpose of the biobanks. But the development of products and production on the basis of biobanks that take place within the framework of this legislation is fundamentally positive to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e771	The reason why I made Höie's comments is that there's a fundamental argument that gives predictability as to where you land in other issues related to biological material. There is no reason to express disagreement when you agree with the reasoning. I think there is reason to commend the Council of State for the fact that in a government where one might think that the positions were different, one has managed to land on one's positions, so that it becomes a majority as a consequence of it. I tried to think through what was going to be the most extreme opposite of an approach in which one is concerned about -- we'll say -- biological material, given that it's kind of unique, and that one shouldn't commercialize it, make it widely available, based on purely nutritional considerations. The opposite position had to be to grant patent rights on that material. And that's my question to the Council of State. We know that these days the Government is preparing the Patent Directive, where, as far as I have been able to register, the Christian People's Party has clearly indicated that it is against the patentability of biological material, that someone should have some kind of ownership for it, as if they have invented it. My question to the Council of State will then be: Is the Government also here united in its view in relation to the management of biological material, and will the Government collectively go against the EU Patent Directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e784	The representative, Ballo, is now asking a question that is under the constitutional responsibility of another Council of State. He asks a question that does not concern the Odelstinget case today, and he asks a question that it should be completely unnecessary to ask, because the answer to the question is to be found in the Sem protocol, which the government parties presented before they joined. I have no further comments on the line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e791	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 314]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e807	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Coastal Party 5 minutes and Council of State 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e818	The Judicial Committee has worked hard on the proposals put forward by the Ministry in a field of extremely difficult questions, namely how small and large children can best be met by society when they are out and cross the boundaries of the law. We have had a useful hearing in the autumn, and I want to start by thanking those who have contributed their knowledge in this process. The Committee supports the proposal to amend the Criminal Procedures Act so that the police are now obliged to investigate cases even if the suspect is under 15 years of age, more specifically where the child is between 12 and 15 years of age. At the same time, we would point out that we assume that the legal certainty of children is properly ensured. However, the majority, consisting of SV, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, go a step further and ask the Ministry to assess whether the child should be entitled to an auxiliary lawyer during the investigation. The Judicial Committee considers that an investigation obligation is appropriate for several reasons. First, it will send a clear signal to children and young people who have broken the law, that adults care about what they do, and that it will be taken seriously. This is positive both for society and for those involved. Secondly, we believe that an investigation obligation will have an effect on those who might use children deliberately to commit criminal acts separately. The chance of this being discovered will now increase, and that's good. Last but not least, the measure is important because the information provided by the police could be of great benefit to child protection in their assessment of what should happen to the child. Although it is not in our position, I believe that the Committee can also agree to an assessment that the obligation will also provide us with more general knowledge of the circumstances surrounding children who commit an otherwise criminal offence, which in itself is valuable. The Judicial Committee also supports a proposal from the Ministry to amend the Criminal Procedures Act in order to enable the investigation carried out by the police to serve as a procedural basis for other bodies and to allow a case of perpetrators under 15 years of age to be formally terminated by the transmission of the case to the protection of children. At the same time, it is our opinion that the police should make greater use of access to the provision of information on child protection. The Judicial Committee considers it extremely important that young offenders receive a rapid response. We therefore support the setting of a six-week deadline for the adoption of prosecution decisions in such cases, i.e. where the offender was under 18 years of age at the time of the offence and that the time limit shall begin to run from the date when someone is to be regarded as suspected in the case. The Committee also supports the proposed clarifications and amendments to the rules on professional secrecy, but believes it is absolutely necessary to draw up a common circular to public administrations on the existing legislation. The Committee also agrees with the Ministry's proposal to impose obligations on the police of children and young people under the age of 18 for whom there is reason to believe that they have committed a criminal offence and their superiors. The purpose of the obligation shall be to streamline the use and impact of a preventive conversation, not to oblige anyone to explain. This is also to be seen in the law. At the same time, the Committee considers that there is a need to develop information material that could facilitate the use of concerns in all police districts of the country at the first police meeting with young offenders under 18 years of age, and further believes that joint visits of the Child Protection Guard and the police should be tested and subsequently evaluated and, where appropriate, developed for more extensive use. In addition, the follow-up call should be used to a greater extent than today, and we believe it should be developed as a structured tool following the pattern of the discussion of concerns. However, the Committee is divided into views on what should happen if someone refuses to meet with the police, as required by the obligation to meet. I just want to explain the minority's view here. The minority, consisting of the SV and the Workers' Party, agree with the working group that has assessed the proposals for the Ministry, that an authorisation to force collection could do more harm than benefit. The purpose of the meeting obligation shall be to motivate children and parents to prevent further criminal development for the child, as well as to identify the life situation of the young person and any need for assistance. This is a very positive purpose, which we fear can be harmful when the threat of coercion becomes an important element in this. We believe it is more appropriate to introduce the obligation to meet first, then to evaluate the action and, if necessary, to return to the question of the need for more instruments. We believe that in the vast majority of cases, the police will provide good information, both in writing and orally, and in relevant languages, through close follow-up, possibly home visits, and general common sense. In this respect, we would like to stress strongly that no child has to be placed in a situation where they have to act as an interpreter for their superiors at such meetings with the police. I do not really understand that the committee could not unanimously establish this. Perhaps someone from the majority could take up the glove and explain why one does not want to assert that children should not be interpreted for their superiors? There may be many reasons why a family doesn't meet with the police, for example. fear, lack of language or cultural understanding, scepticism that can be met by good police information, etc. We are fully aware that someone simply does not want to, but the question then has to be what you want to achieve with forced collection. Will the persons concerned become more cooperative? Or will coercion only work against its purpose and, in the worst case, could lead to scepticism and perversion infecting relations with other public bodies? We believe it is worth listening to the objections raised at the hearings, and have chosen to support a proposal such as this. was promoted by Redd Barna, which calls for an assessment of whether such cases should automatically end up in the area of child protection as a matter of concern. The next proposal that the Committee on Justice has assessed and shared is the question of whether a legal basis should be provided for in order to impose a limited residence ban on children under 15 years of age. The majority, all except SV, are unconditionally positive to this. In the SV, however, we are so uncertain about the appropriateness that we want this as an experimental scheme. The background to this uncertainty is both that the police today have good opportunities to intervene against children who are driving around themselves in places and at times that are believed to be harmful to them, and that we are not convinced that the bans imposed will actually be effectively enforced. We believe that the most harmful thing we can do to children and young people in free circulation is to adopt laws and regulations that we do not enforce, that is, in practice we show them that they can do what they want. Examples are if the child can only move to a different and equally harmful place or if the police do not have the capacity and resources to prioritise the enforcement of the measure. On the other hand, we may be wrong, that the objections do not hold true. But we believe that there are good reasons to be insecure, especially because so many of the hearing bodies had concerns, and we have therefore stated that this should be introduced as an experimental mechanism with a subsequent evaluation. The Committee endorses the proposed clarification in the criminal law stating that conflict resolution can be judged as a special condition for conditional judges in cases where both the perpetrator and the offended consent. The Committee believes that the conflict councils should be actively used, and we also believe that the Government should facilitate increased use of school mediation, multidisciplinary follow-up teams including the psychiatry, the SLT, and youth contracts. The Committee has received strong input from Redd Barna and the Joint Organisation for Child Protection Educators, Socialists and Protective Caregivers, FO, and as a result we ask the Ministry to propose that, in cases where there is reason to believe that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers have committed criminal acts, concern should be immediately communicated to the Child Protection Service, which should assess the need for further assistance. I have to say, however, that on the part of the SV, we should wish that the Committee could also have joined a proposal that the SV and the Progress Party had previously tabled, which would mean that the reception of single minor asylum seekers would have been given the status of child protection institutions, which we believe would both prevent and take care of the needs of these children for adult contact and security. How these children are being treated today is, in the SV's view, a great shame. The Committee asks the Ministry for feedback on the adequacy of police resources to meet the intentions of the proposal, and we also ask for an in-depth assessment of whether the proposals we are now adopting require an increase in the supply of resources to the police in the context of the 2004 budget, an assessment we believe is absolutely necessary if we are to be sure that the decisions are actually put into practice. In the interests of the Labour Party and the SV, we would like the majority to have participated in saying the same thing about child protection, which in many places is extremely pressured, both economically and humanly, but we have put our trust in the Children's and Family Committee in that context. Our two parties, SV and the Workers' Party, also agree on several proposals, including: that the decisions we are making now need to be followed up by evaluations and that relevant children also need to be consulted in this context. We also suggest that the Government should consider what measures and resources are needed to meet the specific needs of children and young people with ADHD or ADD – a natural extension of, we believe, the unanimous proposal of the Committee that requires the Government to review what kind of knowledge exists about ADHD and ADD issues in the various professional groups working with children and young people, because if we are to first address this area, we should do it properly and not try to divert ourselves from money use, because this is about saving a lot of money in the long term. I didn't think I would have any speaking time left, but I just wanted to say some words at the end. In SV we see many good proposals from the Government, but we cannot see this independently of the general budget. And the general budget is not good for children and young people. We now see trends around the municipalities. We see how it is cut in children's and youth's actions, and this is going to break out with us too. We have to be really on guard, so I hope the government will tighten up in the next round. On behalf of SV, I address the proposals from the Workers' Party and SV and the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e858	No Marte Thorkildsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e863	One of the objectives of this law is, among other things: preventing young people from developing criminal behaviour. That's one of the main objectives. Proposition takes, for example: investigation of offences committed by children under the age of 15. You have to be bound by professional secrecy, police duty for children and young people and bans, and you also have to have a duty to meet the police when you are concerned. SV departs from the ban in certain places, that the police should be able to ban children from staying at certain places. And then the question is: Is not the increase we have seen in childhood and juvenile delinquency sufficiently documented for new measures to be necessary — and the new measures include: residency bans and concern talks? It is often the case that the SV in free dressage is primarily used to criticise police, prosecution, courts, municipalities and public authorities. It also applies to the provision of child protection services, etc. is too small in relation to children and young people who end up on a criminal track. I mean, we're breaking a new barrier here. We involve the police in a completely different way, and we use the resources that the police have to enter into dialogue with the parents. And I think that's very important. Experiences include: from New York showed that it was very effective to have these conversations, and then I find it strange that SV does not agree to have a meeting obligation with the police. It wouldn't be to punish the parents, but rather to help them. And then we have this with bans. I cannot understand that SV does not agree that the police can ban residence for minors, among other things. on Oslo S. What kind of service do you give to children and young people by allowing them to stay in places where they can get in touch with the criminal environment? Would it not be beneficial for families and children to have such an opportunity to ban residence?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e872	With imminent danger of being clubbed, I must say: Wash your ears! It is not that SV is going against a ban on residence. We are in favour of a pilot scheme, because many objections have been raised to implementing measures against unenforced children and young people, including those who are not being enforced. the police say this sail. I don't spend any more time on it. The second concerns the obligation to meet. We're in favour of a meeting obligation. A unanimous committee is in favour of this. What's a problem is whether or not the police should have the opportunity to collect them. There we have made a balance, whether we think that would be a good solution for the families in question, or whether this could make worse. It's not about getting a family to explain themselves to the police. It's about trying to get the family to understand both the seriousness and the cooperation with the police. We fear, like many of the hearing bodies – so we are not on our own alone at least – that these parents and children can become less cooperative. In that case, we have destroyed what we are trying to build up by establishing such a meeting obligation. It is clear that it is strange to impose an obligation without using coercion if you break the obligation. But the question is, will it work, or will it not work? We don't think it's going to work, and that's why we're going to have to evaluate this after it's worked for a while, and then we're going to get back to it and see if there's any tools missing. We are in favour of what Redd Barna has proposed, namely that when parents and children do not meet, concerns should be automatically sent to child protection. Then we think it should be child-restraint immediately, because then they don't know what's for the child's own good. So please read the setting again!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e885	I have understood it so that SV clearly does not want to impose any instructions that are not followed up. I understand that, but SV writes in his comments on bans that the intention behind the ban is good enough, ‘but fears that police action priorities will lead to the prohibition not being effectively enforced’. And a little bit further down it says: ‘This member does not wish to see a situation in which the children to whom the ban applies experience that it is relatively easy to circumvent.’ We fully agree with that, but when the representative, Thorkildsen, does not want to introduce anything permanently – which I am not afraid to be followed up – it must mean that the representative is against all the laws and regulations that are not followed up. Will it mean that SV makes proposals to repeal all the laws that the police do not follow?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e900	Personally, for example, I am. against criminalising the whore customers. That's because I think this isn't going to be enforced, but it also has a lot of other reasons. I think it's not very smart to introduce new laws that you don't enforce, but you should focus on laws that you already have, for example. Hallic paragraph. I want to answer the question in a slightly different way, because I think in essence that the question was a little uninteresting. What's interesting is whether the police have the right priorities, or whether they have enough resources to carry out the job they're going to do. Actually, this is something the Progress Party tends to be most interested in. In recent years, among other things, The representative Gunn Karin Gjul and I have been on patrol with the police, and we have had a lot of conversations with different policemen. What many people say is that the police can also give different internal priorities. They could, for example, have prioritised prevention work more than they do today, but it concerns, among other things. that it does not have enough status. Now they're going to start with problem-oriented police work to a large extent, and I think that's going to be very positive. I think we're going to see results from that. However, as a direct answer to the representative Kukkestad's question, I would like to say that, of course, I will not go in to cancel all the laws that we believe the police are not giving enough priority. Instead, we will look at their priorities and see if they have enough resources. That it has to get a proper review, we have also said something about it in this setting. But at least I do not want new laws to be introduced that you know in advance that will not be enforced. With regard to the ban, we want an evaluation to assess whether it works in practice or whether it does not work in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e913	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e916	We've seen in recent years a rougher and more brutal form of childhood and juvenile delinquency. While statistics do not yet provide evidence, it also appears that the crime rate among young girls is both increasing and considerably cruder. An example of this is the case that is now before the Nordic courts, where a girl boy was mistreated and raped by another girl. At the same time, we must not forget the description in crime statistics that gives the most important picture of the extent of child and youth crime. It tells us that there is a small minority of children and young people who are registered annually for some form of crime. This applies under 1⁄2 pst. by children under the criminal detainee, and two to three hundred young people up to the age of 20. So what you can say is that conformity and lawfulness are the most striking description for most young people in most situations. The Labour Party believes that in its efforts to prevent crime among children and young people, it is essential to facilitate safe growth conditions, equal opportunities for education and good social networks. The government’s prevention of crime becomes empty words when the community economy leads to the closure of recreational clubs, child protection is cut off, the school loses social teachers and extra hours, and the school leisure system is becoming more expensive. We know from surveys that many prisoners have a background as school losers and with difficult and unstable family conditions. This is precisely why it is so important to take preventive measures in advance and to facilitate the follow-up of these groups in advance and not only in retrospect. The Labour Party is therefore disappointed that the Christian People's Party and the Left are now focusing on a traditional Right-Line in the fight against crime, with severe reactions in retrospect, less focus on prevention and less on local economy. For children under the criminal detainee, it is serious that they have been able to commit criminal acts without society following them well enough. To help these children, parents and society must be able to stop unfortunate developments and prevent new crimes. The changes in the laws that we are making today are intended to correct this and meet this objective. It is positive that the rules are changed, so that the police are also under the age of 15. The investigation and resolution of offences have a general and individual preventive effect. The Labour Party and the SV stress in their comments that it is necessary to assess whether the child is entitled to legal aid in the course of an investigation. The imposition of an investigation obligation on children under the criminal detention centre would be questionable if the child is not guaranteed legal certainty guarantees. This is particularly important as the action may be pending for the rest of your life without trial for independent judges. When children and young people commit crime, child protection services may also decide, in the circumstances, that action should be taken. Child protection does not have its own investigative powers and is often dependent on the information that the police can provide. The fact that the police are now under an investigation obligation can thus improve the possibility for child protection to intervene and provide the appropriate assistance. It is also positive that it is legislated that the investigation material can provide a basis for proceedings in other departments. Furthermore, it is positive that conditions under which the perpetrator is under the criminal detainee are to be transmitted to child protection after an investigation has ended. This is a clear clarification of the responsibility for the further follow-up and is required to avoid further criminal developments. It is also important that the prosecution authority be informed whether or not decisions are taken in the area of child protection. This ensures a mutual provision of information and, hopefully, this will be mutually committed to multidisciplinary cooperation for the best interests of the child. During the debate, the Labour Party has called for rules and resources for the follow-up of child protection. The Family, Culture and Administrative Committee now has the St.meld. No 40 for 2001–02, on the protection of children and young people, for treatment. It is essential for the overall outcome of the work that child protection is provided with human and financial resources that enable these matters to be followed up. This was also addressed in the budget debate. We are calling for action from the Government just at this point. It is important that there is a short time between action and reaction. This is essential to prevent further destructive development. Against this background, it is positive that a six-week time limit is now being set for the prosecution of child and juvenile delinquency. This is a rule for the care of children and the best of young people, and thus it can be exempted from this rule where conditions are so complicated that extra time is needed for investigation. The legislative proposal proposes a statutory obligation to address concerns. It supports the Workers' Party. The main target group of concerns is just young offenders and other young people at risk of committing crimes. Many police stations and districts are already well-informed with such concerns and have been practicing them for many years, and they have good experience in the dialogue between the family of the young offender and the police. The important thing about just the talk of concern is to clarify the situation of the young person in order to make the young person and parents responsible and, not least, to motivate them to change the situation, so that the young person is prevented from continuing on a criminal track. We therefore support an attendance obligation, and of course we also want a greater use of anxiety talks than we have today, and that is what we also expect to be a follow-up to these measures. On the other hand, the Committee distinguishes layers on the question of whether there should be the possibility of coercion for children and parents for a discussion of concerns. We feel that it is a matter of concern to physically pick up parents for a discussion of concerns, parents who per year. definition has not done anything wrong, their child has done something wrong, but they have per year. definition not done so. In addition, we question the appropriateness of it. So they can be forced into a police car and driven to the police station. When they get there, the police have a duty, and it's also specified in the proposition, to inform them that they don't have to disclose anything but the name and number, and that they can then leave the police station. We believe that this is an inappropriate measure, because the purpose of a discussion of concerns is precisely to establish cooperation and dialogue between parents and the child, which should lead to commitment by the parties, for example. parents undertake to set clear limits. If you're kind of going hard, like the government parties are proposing here, I think it's working against its purpose. I also record that forced collection has received very little support in the proposition. The working group which has proposed measures to combat childhood and juvenile delinquency is opposed to it, the Red Cross of Norway warns against it, and the Joint Association of Police has also expressed scepticism, they believe that ‘a general authority for forced collection is not appropriate, and suggests that it should be considered that there is a possibility of ‘freezing child rights until parents meet’. Even the Ministry of Justice in its comments expresses a certain kind of scepticism: ‘The Ministry sees that bringing someone to such a conversation may have adverse effects as the main purpose of motivating the young and the parents to change an unfortunate development; coercion may have a negative effect on the willingness to cooperate both with parents and children.’ The Labour Party and SV agree with the assessments made here by the Ministry of Justice, which is why we are going to oppose the possibility of forcing parents and children to talk about their concerns. We also want situations to arise where it is difficult to engage in dialogue with parents and children, and they refuse to respond, send a message to child protection, and that other measures and instruments are also being used to resolve this, for it is extremely important to engage in dialogue. It is extremely important to find a solution for the future that prevents any criminal career for that child. Finally, I would like to express great pleasure at the measures that Odelstinget will adopt today. I think it's measures that will help us get a better tool to fight child and youth crime in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e961	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e964	It amazes me a little bit about the commitment of the representative Gjul to the breach of the obligation to meet, because it just makes the big difference between when the Workers' Party sits in the government offices and not, because the Workers' Party is of a completely different opinion now. What is interesting about this proposal is that it was Minister of Justice Hanne Harlem who in his time promoted the proposal that a breach of the obligation to meet could lead to forced collection, and she agreed to it and sent it to the hearing. And then the representative says Gjul and tells us how brutal and cynical government parties are now in favour of forced collection. It is interesting to see what line the Labour Party has taken in justice policy now, instead of taking reality inwards and finding measures to reverse this negative trend, they put themselves on SV's line, which means that it is not being reacted to the children. Why does the Labour Party not want to take part in this proposal? They say in the vote that if the measures you have do not work, you will be in favour of the proposal. Then it's strange that the Workers' Party will not be in favour of it now, because the measures that we've had over the last decades have not worked at all, and the criminal statistics show that crime is increasing, and that it is becoming more brutal in relation to children and young people. And then my question to Gunn Karin Gjul is: why can't they be involved in this now, when they actually promoted the proposal as late as two years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e969	It is clear that the representative Linda Hofstad has moved on to a line in which she tries to present it as if the right-hand side is powerful and effective in criminal policy, not least with the measure of forced collection of parents and children for concerns. The point is that only in a way can you look like you're acting, but the result of such a measure is the opposite. There are no areas where it is more important to have a dialogue and a conversation than just to prevent children and young people from continuing a criminal career. If you want to succeed, you don't use to go after fire-fighting measures, with more severe penalties and forced action in cabins and torments, as the right-hand side suggests. The important thing is to get ahead of dialogue, dialogue and prevention to help keep child and youth crime at a low level. The point is that the working group set up by the Labour Party Government and Justice Minister Harlem recommended that there should be no forced collection. The strange thing is that the Council of State in the motion for a resolution also shows that he has great concerns with just forced collection as an instrument. So I think the representative of Hofstad and the party of the Right might want to start to see if there are other measures that work better in the fight against crime than to come running afterwards with fire extinguisher instead of looking at measures that might work in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e976	Gunn Karin Gjul used part of his speaking time to talk about the meeting duty and the breach of this, and in that context it may be possible to get an answer to a question. That is what they write in their comments as well: ‘These members consider it appropriate to establish an arrangement with a meeting obligation first, and then to evaluate the arrangement to see if further action is necessary.’ As I understand this remark, you want a meeting duty, but without obligation. Gunn Karin Gjul was here not many minutes ago and talked about the parents' fault that their child had done something wrong – they could not be held responsible for it. This is not how much parental responsibility the Labour Party places on. At least they will not be required to meet. But then it is actually in the position that they believe that you should have a meeting duty, but, as I said – as I understand it – without any relevance if an obligation is not followed up. So what the Labour Party wants, is probably strictly taken a meeting request that it would be nice if the parents of grossly criminal children could consider a few minutes so that you could take a cup of coffee and have a nice chat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e986	I understand from the debate that the right-hand side wants to address the big issue of action against childhood and juvenile delinquency is whether or not it should be forced collection. That's a little interesting, because I think it's the other measures in this bill that are really effective with regard to how to combat childhood and juvenile delinquency. Just to clarify it clearly to the representative Kukkestad: we are in favour of a meeting obligation. It has also been proposed by this working group, and all the organisations that oppose compulsory collection are, of course, required to meet. In many other areas of society, we impose an obligation without the imposition of coercive measures, which is a very dramatic measure if it is applied. Perhaps the representative Kukkestad also remembers some cruel pictures on TV a few years ago, where the police, in cooperation with child protection, brought a child home from one of the parents in a child distribution case. It was cruel pictures. I sincerely hope that we will not have such images presented when it comes to forced collection for a conversation that aims to get a better dialogue between parents, children and the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e993	SV and the Workers' Party have had a very good cooperation in dealing with this proposition, and we are united on it all, most of all. However, there is one thing I would like to ask about, and it concerns lone minor asylum seekers. The representative, Gunn Karin Gjul, says that sail is something that I agree with the heart, and that's that prevention is really important if we're going to get rid of crime. I wonder if it would not be better to support a proposal that would convert the reception of unaccompanied minor asylum-seekers to child-responsive institutions, which are, in a way, measures in front of them, and where children are guaranteed stable contact with adults. Children who really need this often come from land with brutality and are torn away from their entire family. Now only one proposal is adopted – it is of course better than nothing, and it is positive that Odelstinget will adopt it today – which means that in cases where there is reason to believe that single minor asylum seekers have committed criminal acts, concerns should immediately be sent to the Child Welfare Service, which will assess the need for further assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1000	The Labour Party, the Progress Party and the SV are today united on a majority proposal that is just about once minor asylum seekers have committed criminal acts, a report of concern must be sent immediately to the Child Protection Service, which will then assess the need for further assistance. I am very pleased that there will be a majority for that, because it is important that minor asylum seekers who come out on a criminal track get a proper follow-up. However, the Labour Party feels that it is a bit drastic to take the step as fully as the Progress Party and the SV propose, that all minor asylum seekers should be placed in a child protection institution. We must not forget that single minor asylum seekers cover a very wide range, ranging from those aged 17 and 1/2 to those aged 12 and 13, and it would seem a little unnatural that not least the oldest should be placed in a child protection institution only from age to age. So we're a little skeptical about going to such a step as institutionalising all minor asylum seekers. That's why it's so very important for us to be part of the proposal that single minor asylum seekers who may commit a criminal act immediately get an offer and be properly followed up, so that we don't get them on a criminal track.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1005	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1008	Before Christmas, I received a letter from a mother to a 14-year-old boy. The mother tells in her letter about what it was like in the days after her son was subjected to violence from a boy boy. What she says is so bad to hear that you almost don't think it can be true. After an unprovoked attack on the 14-year-old, the life of the mother and son has been a nightmare. The boy, the 14-year-old, has experienced death threats, threats about how to cut him up and kill him. For this mother and son, the days are filled with anxiety, and, as they say themselves, they feel as if they are fleeing in their own country. The 14-year-old is terrified. He no longer dares to go to school, he no longer dares to go and visit his friends, and he must be driven wherever he moves. He feels he's the one being punished. He is the one who does not sleep at night; he is the one who does not dare to go to school. He can't live a normal life, because it's a gang of juvenile criminals that threatens his life every single day. It's terrible to hear that a 14-year-old is going to experience this. Unfortunately, however, he is not alone, because crime statistics show that child and youth crime has increased in recent years. Statistics tell us that more children are registered for crime. The number of girls who commit crimes shows an increase. In the country’s largest police district, Oslo, statistics show a marked increase in initial criminals under the age of 18. Worriedly, too, it was that in 1998 it was 25 p.m. Thus, in 2001, the number of first-time offenders committed new criminal acts was 50 pst. who had a relapse. The right has long been concerned about this development, and has therefore been a driving force for thinking new about these age groups. When we look at the gloomy numbers, it goes without saying that society must have a responsibility to respond, not least for the sake of the young. The main challenge facing us in child and youth crime is how we can prevent more children and young people from ending up as offenders. It is also important to identify how society can best follow up those who have committed crimes in order to prevent them from committing new crimes. There is no doubt that parents and schools have a responsibility to take action against children who commit crime or are at risk of doing so. But it's also a reality that it doesn't always work. The changes we are going to make today in the Criminal Procedures Act and the Police Act are all necessary measures. It will enable the police to intervene with children and young people in the risk zone. The police's efforts to detect crime and a rapid response to young offenders are very important, and I am pleased that the committee has shown a willingness to act and take this type of crime seriously. The way society has handled criminals under 15 years of age up to now has proved to be inefficient. Unfortunately, we have not been able to reverse the trend, and the measures that have been implemented seem to have had little effect preventatively, and not least they have been little suitable for bringing children out of criminal behaviour. For most parents, it is unmistakable that children carry out criminal acts, not least for one’s own children. But it's important that parents take this seriously. It doesn't necessarily have to be a serious crime the first time, but then it's important to intervene. Parents and other adults around the child must understand that if you do not intervene, it can mean a further criminal run for this child. When an 11-year-old has committed a serious crime, he has made himself early visible. That's when it's absolutely necessary to do the right thing at the right time and with a real effort, because then we can make sure that this 11-year-old gets back on track. But if we fail here and don't intervene, the police will almost certainly see this kid again. The right is pleased that the majority is behind the proposals that have been promoted. The main proposal may be that the police are now obliged to investigate crimes committed by children under the age of 15. Although the police today have an opportunity to do this, they have no obligation. The right considers that, in addition to investigating/clarifying offences, it will have a general and individual preventive effect. The right is also satisfied that we get a statutory meeting obligation from the police for children and officers. When there is reason to believe that a child has committed or contributed to offences, we believe that involving parents more clearly indicates to the child that crime is a police matter, and that it will not least motivate both children and parents to prevent further criminal development for the child. In order to achieve the purpose of a discussion of concerns, it is important that the police have access to pick up the child and parents if they do not respond for no valid reason. It's a shame that some parents don't show up when the police call, and that's exactly the parents we need to get hold of, and there's no other way to do it than to make this forced pick-up. This is why the Right has great confidence that the police too will show sufficient discretion in these cases, and that this will allow the police to enter into much more dialogue with their parents just to protect the child. I have great expectations that these measures could help bring these children in before it is too late. It's not about any criminal responses, it's about society taking a responsibility to facilitate these children at an early age getting a new chance. Children and young people displaying criminal behaviour must face rapid and, not least, correct responses. Children need clear and consistent adults, who are able to show care and set limits. Some representatives from the police, from the school community and not least parents feel powerless because we do not have effective responses for this age group. I am absolutely sure that the measures we have now found will improve cooperation between the police and the parents, and not least we can manage to get the kids who have gotten on the wrong track and give them a new chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1038	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1041	The representative of Hofstad from the Right shall have the honour of having a strong commitment to the fight against child and youth crime. She also expressed in her post that the Right is willing to think new in such a context. From the Labour Party's point of view, thinking new means more severe punishments and tough reactions. The representative of Hofstad has previously expressed the need to remove silk gloves. That's what she said, among other things. in an post in the Evening Post on 22 February 2002, in which she launched a proposal to put criminal children in electronic house arrest. That's a little bit of a suggestion you've seen behind. I would therefore like to ask the representative of Hofstad: where has this proposal been? It might be natural to promote it in such a context as today. Or is it that it even became a little too heavy to digest for her party traps? Perhaps it was too clear that this proposal belonged to the Progress Party and not to the Right Party? Or is it perhaps just that the representative Hofstad had thought that this proposal was calculated only for the bold headlines of the capital newspapers to produce Right as powerful and powerful in the newspapers, but perhaps not as clear on it when it comes to action?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1049	I thank you for the praise of the representative Gjul for my commitment. Right has an commitment, and the government has an commitment, precisely because we've seen that the Workers' Party has been sitting so long in power, so long in government, without doing anything. Crime statistics show that crime in children and young people has increased, violence has become more serious, and we have, with Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum at the head, come up with concrete measures to change this trend. Actually, it wasn't like that, as the representative Gjul said, that I was looking for big headlines. And it's not like it's been hard for my party traps to swallow this proposal, because we went to elections on just this. It's in the Right Program. We've had discussions about it, but what came from the government, we thought was very good. There are offensive measures, for which we have agreed. Unfortunately, the Labour Party has not been with all the way, and I regret that, but we have great faith that these measures will work. The government is now working on more fundamental criminal and child policy issues, as child and youth crime travels. It is important that all parties take a debate on the more basic issues and how we should prevent so many children from getting on the wrong track and actually becoming child criminals. Then I hope that the Workers' Party will be involved, and that they actually dare to be a little offensive and fix some of the errors that were made when the Workers' Party was in government, as it came very little – something we might see the result of today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1060	It is interesting to hear the representative Hoftstad's long investigation into why she cannot be perceived as going up like a lion and this down like a skin trap. I guess I didn't feel that we got quite clear confirmation that she didn't. Now, at least on a few occasions, the representative Hofstad has been out talking about prison places abroad. She has rightly voted against that both before and after. She has also wanted to go out with proposals on electronic house arrest, as was said, but she has been against it both before and after – so you can ask questions about the motivation if it was not to get media attention. - I'll leave it. In this case, the Right Party and the Advance Party agree very much, but in one area, our roads are separated, and this applies in relation to children's legal certainty. It's obviously not as concerned with the right. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the SV, want to assess whether children should have the right to legal aid in the course of an investigation precisely in order to protect a group of people who have absolutely major problems in caring for their interests, at least their legal interests, namely children in such a situation. What surprises me is that Hofstad already does not want the government to assess it, and that she already knows with certainty that children do not need legal certainty. What does she justify this in?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1069	First of all, I would like to thank the representative, Kijkestad, for an excellent cooperation in this matter. It has been very good that we have jointly reached a majority of the measures promoted by the Government. The representative Kukkestad slams open doors, for it is quite clear that he has not done his homework. A majority of the members of the Committee request that consideration be given to whether children should be entitled to legal aid during the investigation. Then I just want to point out that everyone who is suspected in a criminal case has the right to be assisted by a lawyer, for example. in consultation with the police, and this is something the police are obliged to inform them of after the order.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1078	I want to address a topic that we have affected too little. It's simply what kind of trends we see in our society with regard to children and young people. Then it is interesting that last year the government issued a big message about children and young people’s living conditions. It shows that between 14 000 and 19 000 Norwegian children grow up in homes with persistently low incomes. Children with a migrant background are overrepresented in this group. Then I have one question: does the representative of Hofstad and the right share the view that small differences and bets on the growing conditions of children and young people have an important crime prevention effect, and in particular this with small differences? If the answer to that is yes, I have to ask further: When the Government in the Communication points out that children and young people are especially good for inequalities in the distribution of welfare goods, does that mean that, unlike now, the Government will be investing in reducing the differences between people, especially between children and young people, in Norway, also because it seems criminal prevention?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1085	I share the concern of the representative Thorkildsen, and the answer is yes to the question she asked. What's a little difficult for me to understand when we discuss this matter is that with all of the representatives of Thorkildsen's proposals in connection with this proposition, with which she did a very good job, enormous resources are required for the police. The representative complains about the local economy, that we have to give more money there to make things better for the children, and she says that we can't expect anything from the police if we don't add more money. It's a little suspicious, because if we don't make demands on the police and their efforts, it's going to be a sleep cushion that they always get more resources when we give them challenges. The government has invested and done a lot for those who have the hardest, just through our poverty package. With the new message that is now coming from the Government to discuss how to avoid increasing crime among children and young people, I believe that together we will be able to find good measures that can get these children back on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1094	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1097	Unfortunately, dealing with the rules on child and youth crime, i.e. crimes committed by children and young people, is a necessity. That's a necessity we should have avoided. In particular, it is regrettable to see the increase in crime committed by children and young people. An extra big problem is that the crime committed by children and young people, such as the rest of the crime and violence in society, is becoming ever more serious. We're afraid that this might just be a start, even if we hope that these measures could have an impact. It is against this background that we believe that we need to have a continuous follow-up and assessment not only of the measures but also of the impact of the measures. In this context, it will be wrong to view this as a trial plan or to order an evaluation once and for all. That is one of the reasons why we do not want to vote in favour of these proposals, because we believe that here we need to show flexibility in relation to the developments that are coming. I am betting that the government is just taking responsibility for an ongoing evaluation. There may be a need for further tightening and not necessarily relaxation of these measures, but we will have to get back to that. One problem is often that parents are not always equally aware or aware of their children’s behaviour in terms of crime. It is a bit of the same problem that we see in relation to parents’ knowledge of the use of drugs. Everyone in the committee agrees that when the police know what is going on, parents must be informed by the police in some way. We believe that in this context one must react quickly, not just give a slap on the shoulder and say that we know it is a problem, and then hope that it goes over. We think it's important to have a meeting duty. If you have an obligation, our starting point is that then there must be a possibility of sanctions at the bottom. There is little sense in having an obligation without real content, or in another way: if there is no sanction, if there is no discomfort in not fulfilling an obligation, then the possibility of not doing so is also much greater. The Gunn Karin Gjul of the Workers' Party drew up the possibility of holding back the child's rights. It may be an opportunity, but I've never heard that Gunn Karin Gjul or the Workers' Party have been willing to consider withholding neither child or other social benefits for anything, not even when parents for no reasonable reason are away with their children for so long that even the training obligation is not followed up. It is certainly not very credible that the Workers' Party is in favour of this, even though they refer to the fact that others may have assessed it. But it is important to note that for the Progress Party is the right of the police to pick up parents who do not meet, a right and not a duty of the police. There must be a rice behind the mirror, but alternative solutions must always be considered. Therefore, I would like to quote from the setting, in case you have not received everything in the Workers' Party: ‘If this objective is to be achieved, the majority of the Committee, the members of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, believe that the police must have access to pick up the child and its superiors where they do not meet for no valid reason. The majority believe that the police must be free to assess whether to pick-up or whether to try other alternatives, such as home visits.’ So there's no extreme difference between what we think might be appropriate, but we want a duty to be a duty, precisely because the seriousness of childhood and juvenile delinquency in relation to the future runway is so great that here we have to deal with what we can. Then there is a proposal from the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party that breaking the meeting obligation will result in the case being submitted to the Child Protection Service. I am afraid that such a provision will work against its purpose. In fact, it is natural for the police to transmit such cases to child protection. I don't have a problem with that. However, it is important that the police also assess whether other issues should be transmitted to child protection. You can easily get into a situation where the police, perhaps not quite legitimately, see that there has been no breach of any obligation to meet here, so that there is no reason to send the case to child protection. Then we have got ourselves more watertight shots than necessary. I also hope that the Council of State in its statement will address the issue and clarify that the police will continue to assess the issues to be addressed to child protection for treatment there, and that after a while you will also be happy to receive feedback on what child protection is doing to the case. However, the important thing in this context is, of course, that such cases should be submitted. We just don't have to give a signal that gives an indication that we limit that question to these issues. It is also an area in which I was involved in the exchange of lines with the Right Representative here, where we are working with the Workers' Party and the SV. It is that the government is asked to assess whether children under investigation should be entitled to legal aid, in that context without status as intended, because we see that there may be a need for it even outside the purely formal circumstances. We have not made any proposals for decisions. We just wanted the government to take a round and tit on the matter, and we hope that it will be done. We will, of course, be open to what the Government considers necessary, and also to the conclusion that this is well taken care of by the Government. But in a situation where we're dealing with childhood and juvenile delinquency, we want to have a special focus on legal certainty. On the ADHD issue, this has been linked to crime in some areas. In this context, it is very important to identify your competences, not just in the justice sector, not only in the education sector but in general. It has emerged that the knowledge of the problem is very diverse. Sometimes you have a lot of knowledge, sometimes you don't have it. It may vary, not only from sector to sector, but also within, for example: the education sector. That's why we feel it's right to identify what we have, what we can play on, and where the defects are, before we start a large-scale resource supply, which we don't know where to put. I think it'll be natural that once you've mapped this, you have to add resources, but then across sectors in relation to school, justice and family, because ADHD intervenes in many areas of society. That is why we need a comprehensive survey. I'm very happy that the majority get this process going in this area, because we need to know how large the scope is, we need to know where the problems are, and maybe even how we can solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1119	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1122	The representative Kukkestad now came to the topic ADHD at the very end. It's a topic that's very important also in the crime debate, but it's not important just because of it. It is also important because when there is such a bad knowledge of that theme, many children and many families suffer. The progress party has been busy with this for a long time. But I have to say that I am quite surprised at the reason that the representative Kukkestad has now stated that the Progress Party does not want to support a more radical proposal from the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, which is quite specific about identifying the resource shortages that exist and what measures need to be taken to improve the care of these children and their families. That this must be cross-sectoral, etc. I do not think this is going to work, because it can be done even if the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights makes this proposal. It could be done no matter what committee came up with the proposal, as long as you say you have to map in different areas. State Council Dørum tends to say that he is not a private-practice councillor, and that is of course quite right. The government is a collective – I kept saying – that together will try to do the best for society. In fact, I think they fail a little too often, but at least they try. I believe that it must then be possible for the Progress Party to vote in favour of a proposal to have a mapping to obtain an obligating resource supply where it is needed, not just to say that one should map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1131	This might be explained by the fact that we in the Progress Party feel that around the community there is less competence for ADHD than SV believes it is. Assessing what measures and what resource inputs are needed, it is the proposal that SV refers to as its own. But before we get that far, we have to figure out what we have. That's the point for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1136	Several have not asked for the word for line, and the string change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1140	The worst thing we can do as a society and a superior to a child moving on the slope is to ignore the young. Clear limits in a care framework are best for the child. Both senior and non-governmental organisations and the public are at the heart of preventing child and youth crime. Efforts are required from many to raise a child. The government has through Ot.prp. No 106, for 2001–02, proposed a number of actions to make children and young people responsible. The aim is to ensure a more appropriate follow-up of offences committed by persons under the criminal penal code. It is important to take appropriate action against offenders at an early stage. Therefore, the measures referred to in the proposal are as necessary. Section 224 of the Criminal Procedures Act is proposed in such a way that the police are obliged to investigate offences committed by persons aged 12 to 15 years, in line with the investigation carried out in other cases. This is good, not least because it gives signals to the backers who use children under the criminal detainee to commit crimes separately. Young offenders will clearly experience, through police investigation, that society is taking crime seriously and that criminal activity has unpleasant consequences. The fact that offences are investigated and solved has in itself a general preventive and individual preventive effect. In addition, police investigations are often a prerequisite for the child’s superiors to gain knowledge of the crime. Children and young people who have started a criminal career will in many cases need child protection assistance. However, child protection does not have an investigative capacity and depends on the information that the police can provide in order to assess possible measures under the Child Protection Act. A good dialogue between police and child protection is for the best of the child. The Christian People's Party is therefore very pleased that the Criminal Procedures Act now contains rules to facilitate the flow of information. The exchange of information may contribute to fewer future infringements of the law. The government proposes that a meeting obligation of the police for children be imposed in Section 13 of the Police Act. This means that the police can initiate a meeting with the child and its superiors whenever this seems appropriate. Appropriately, it will typically be in cases where the child has committed a crime, and the police assume that continued criminal behaviour can best be stopped by police officers. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that a discussion of concerns with the police is only to be conducted if, after a concrete assessment, the police consider this to be an effective tool to help the child achieve a law-abiding pattern of action. Not all officers will draw constructive action from a police conversation. Reactions to the child may become destructive. If there is a risk of this type of reaction from the officers, the police should be cautious about calling for a call. In such cases, the most appropriate might be a direct contact between police and child protection. We know from the school sector that often the parents are absent from parental meetings that you would prefer to have. The reasons can be many, from a lack of will or a lack of responsibility through language difficulties to a direct reluctance to school authorities. We also know that parts of childhood and juvenile delinquency are committed by people with a minority background, and in these cases there is a special need to inform parents about the behaviour of children. Not all minority parents are sufficiently familiar with society to be able to capture signals of bad behaviour. In addition, it is an unknown problem for the councils to meet concerns from neighbors, teachers and police with aggression and denial: My child is not a problem child! Crime trends are frightening. Not least, it is frightening that more young people commit serious crime, such as crime and drug trafficking. In this reality, the Christian People's Party believes it is necessary to oblige both children and officers to meet with the police to get information and to have an opportunity to talk about the situation. However, there is no obligation for children or adults to explain themselves to the police. Children who are under the criminal detainee and who commit crime must experience that their actions have consequences. But the consequences need to be included in a care framework. The frame shall not be punishable! A criminal law response to young offenders often works against its purpose. We know that, and we in the Christian People's Party actively relate to that knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1166	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1169	What is clear and clear in the criminal picture is that there is a link between the use of drugs and crime. It is not least for youth groups over 15 years of age. In the past, the Christian People's Party has had a very strong commitment to the fight against drugs, and has seen clearly and clearly the link between violence and bodily damage and being in the affected state. But what we have recorded during the last two budgetary procedures is that the Christian People's Party has joined forces with the Advance Party and exerted strong pressure to reduce the taxes on alcohol. In the last two years, the alcohol tax has been reduced by almost 30 pst. The statistics show that when alcohol taxes fall, the consumption of alcohol increases. We also know that there is a close link between increased alcohol consumption and increased crime. We may see it even stronger in our neighbouring country Sweden, where the consumption of alcohol after the heavy tax reduction has exploded directly. Crime statistics also clearly show that criminal acts related to violence and body damage are increasing sharply. My question to the representative of Marthinsen is whether he does not think it is quite unpleasant and uncomfortable to sit in a government and cooperate with the Progress Party and just help to ensure that such an important crime prevention measure as having high taxes, and thus limiting alcohol consumption, is destroyed slowly, but surely.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1185	The Christian People's Party is very comfortable sitting in a government with which the Advance Party was involved in a budgetary settlement, which produced much better results in many areas than was possible from the signals coming from the Workers' Party. Personally, I am also concerned about the signals given recently by the Young People in the Workers' Party, not least those who fought to become candidates for the Vice-Chairman's Office in the Workers' Party. Facilitating the availability of alcohol was a common theme, it seemed to be. Fortunately, at least that side has calmed down. Having said that, I will give the representative Gjul complete support for the fact that it is uncomfortable for the Christian People's Party to register that the use of drugs is increasing. There's no doubt about it. And it's not according to our will and according to our purpose. But we have to make compromises in this room and in other contexts. We are therefore pleased that the Government is adding to measures to prevent further crime as a result of the use of drugs. I attend a good cooperation with the Workers' Party in the fight against crime linked to the use of drugs. I believe that the Labour Party will be able to make proposals in this area that the Christian People's Party will be able to support with great joy, so that together we may be able to contribute to a change of attitude in relation to the glare that we both are, based on what the representative Gjul signals, records and see as worrying.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1194	The government writes in this proposition: ‘The starting point for action aimed at children in a risk situation is the responsibility of municipalities for a well-growth environment, primary prevention measures and individual prevention measures for vulnerable children and their families.’ Well said! What are the consequences for prevention among children and young people of the poorer economic situation of municipalities than ever before? Last night, when I sat and prepared for today's debate, I heard the news that a school in Oslo has to cut off every fourth teaching position, and that in Bærum the SFO prices are increasing, putting down a kindergarten and kittens in special education. Is it just the government that doesn't see what's happening now with offers to kids in Norway, and what effect can this have on criminal policy later?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1204	I don't think the government is blind. As far as I've registered, it's the highest percentage of people out of the whitestock this third party -- without anything negative being said about those who have to use that particular aid to be seen and taken into account. I think that the representative Thorkildsen has something -- I'm a little uncertain about my use of words -- maybe a narrowly focused view of society around him. Obviously we see that there are problems in many contexts, but at the same time it's incredibly much to enjoy. The granting of funds to build more schools, to equip schools, to provide funds for the government to enable municipalities to use them precisely in order to offer better opportunities, to strengthen children and the growing environment of young people, and to give families better conditions. It's obvious that these are positive things. It is important to do what it says in an old song: «Always look on the bright side of life». That's not all. Sometimes I wish that the Socialist Left Party, which had the last opportunity to make a settlement with the Government, could also see its responsibility and take responsibility, instead of just squeezing at others and telling them what they're not doing. It is the act ‘as it is’, it is the act as ‘frees or traps’.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1209	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1212	The centre party, as you know, is not a member of the Justice Committee, but I have noticed that on most points it is a unanimous committee council. This is a good starting point for moving forward with targeted measures to combat child and youth crime. This is an important societal task. I have also noticed that the Government will work on the more fundamental criminal and child policy issues that child and youth crime is going on, and aims to return to the Stortinget in this spring 2003. That's good. In this area, as in many other policy areas, it is important to focus on prevention. I am absolutely sure that we will never get rid of the increasing crime if we do not prevent by offering proper growing-up conditions to our children. I work almost daily in the family, cultural and administrative committee, and right now in these days we are working with St.meld. No 39 for 2001–02, on child and youth growth conditions and St.meld. No 40 for 2001-2002, on child protection. It's an important work, which the Storting will have the opportunity to debate next month. It is, in fact, serious when so many municipalities today put down leisure services and reduce support for voluntary teams and organisations because of tight financial frameworks. There is also a wrong path when municipalities have to reduce adulthood in schools. This means that the social support system and the adapted education for many pupils are disappearing. It is also quite wrong when children in poor families experience that the family is less able to live because the municipalities have to cut social assistance rates. The bill will take the form of more young people who fall outside, and an increasing development of violence and crime. There's a screaming need to think completely, and there I actually think the government is failing. The centre party is concerned that the police should have sufficient resources to maintain, where appropriate set up, prevention departments working specifically for children and young people. Concern talks are a good tool, which has been shown to produce good results. Active peer-to-peer work has also been shown to be useful prevention. The centre party is concerned that it is important to intervene immediately when it is discovered that children or young people are in the process of committing a criminal act. No matter how young this person is, criminal acts must have consequences. The centre party is concerned that attention to domestic violence needs to be increased. The police must contribute to such matters being reported and followed up. Violence against women in the home also makes the children victims and potential violent perpetrators later in life. The party to the centre considers that the establishment of a child court should be considered. Here, children and young people will quickly get their affairs up. The Central Party also considers that it is necessary to consider setting up its own youth services in prisons, so that young people do not lash out with hard-baked criminals. Finally, the Central Party will vote in favour of the proposals promoted by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left in common, i.e. the proposals No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1225	I want to start with something Gunn Karin Gjul said, which I don't think has been stressed enough in the debate: there's an incredibly small minority we're talking about here. The vast majority of young people today are very good young people, good young people, who are struggling to make their future their dreams. What we see, on the other hand, is that the small minority that's talking about, is doing more and more serious things. I am very pleased that, after all, there is a broad consensus on much in the matter here, and that we have a Left-State Council in this area that really addresses the problems. It was largely where the agreement with Gjul lay. Because then she starts with the Left and Christian People's Party going on a traditional right line of criminal policy. To me, it sounds like a dream back to the clear lines of the 1960s in this area. I want to bring in some new aspects, which no one else has mentioned. For me, this is also a lot of talk about children's relationship to legal certainty. Think of the idea of being 12 years old, and Grandma's saved so you get exactly the cell phone you've been dreaming about for Christmas. Then you go to school, and then there comes a 14-year-old and maybe with violence threatens the thing that Grandma has saved, so that you actually lose it. The feeling of the 12-year-old -- and when you're 12, a 14-year-old is really great -- that this doesn't have any consequences, that it doesn't mean anything to me, that it actually doesn't mean anything, and that it's not going to mean anything to anyone, ruins the child's relationship with our legal system. That experience and that oppression I think the 12-year-old will remember the rest of his life. Then there is someone who has a view of children's leisure activities as just prevention. I would like to take that seriously. The leisure activities of children are not only preventive but also self-valued. We're not building an opera in Oslo for adults not to beat each other. We build opera because we want to listen to opera. Then it is asked whether the most serious cases can be solved with SV and the simple sesame sesame solution of the Workers' Party, namely leisure club. When we read in the newspapers about fourteen-year-olds who write in their journals about dreams of killing, I don't think a youth club and bet on leisure activities is the only thing that could have solved all of this. I am also concerned that the good follow-up of children must connect everything that has to do with children. That means that police, school and child protection, with as diverse a competence as they're in, connect their knowledge. Because we have a left-wing agency for education in Oslo and a left-wing government council for this area in the government, we have managed to establish links between police, school and child protection that I think can provide good solutions in the future, where you think new. I think we also have to look at whether special education might create more losers than it helps. Then it's the strange debate we have about picking up the parents for conversations. For me, it's about the good old lentil tradition – the one we had in the villages before, and the one I've grown up with – that can also be carried out in cities, where the mistrust of the police has often been great. I don't think this is about the capacity of the police to solve this. I think this is about giving the police a desperately wanted tool to actually at all be able to do something. The police today have a desire to do something, but they do not have the means. Finally, the social networks around children are not created in this room. They are created by a society that actually strengthens the parenting role and gives people the opportunity to take care of each other. From the pulpit it was about putting on children with silk gloves or wearing them with iron gloves. But in the case of the children we're talking about here today, there's actually a question of whether they're going to be put on at all. I think that much of what is in this proposal can give many children a positive push in the right direction. We have to let adults stand together for the kids to find solutions. But then we have to have the means to do it, and we have that in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1240	It is important to remember that childhood and juvenile delinquency is a cross-sectoral problem. In the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, we are now working on two major messages that directly concern the field. It concerns the protection of children and young people, and the growth of children and young people. We also receive the family message for treatment during the session. It is a major challenge for children and young people in the process of becoming criminals to be discovered early. This is also crucial for the help that can be provided to help them out of harmful development. On that basis, we welcome the fact that the police will be able to investigate crimes committed by persons under the criminal penal code and that the case can be transferred to child protection after an investigation has ended. Furthermore, the embodiment of professional secrecy rules can lead to better cooperation between police and child protection, for the benefit of the perpetrator. The launch of a discussion of concerns for children and parents is a good response to the responsibilities of young people and their families. For those who are above the criminal deputies, it is fine that mediation in the conflict council is referred to as a special condition, provided that the scheme is based on voluntary activity and that there is no requirement for mediation to end in an agreement. Mediation between perpetrators and victims contributes to the fight against new crime and promotes the adaptability of the perpetrator to society. Many of these young people have struggled for a long time with social problems of different types without the help and support of the auxiliaries. It is only when development has come so far and the circle of associates has become so destructive that criminal behaviour has been put into practice that a person gets reactions from society. This is wrong with everyone, both perpetrator, victim and society too. It is important that the resource situation of the auxiliaries, both in schools, in health centres and in child protection, etc., is so good that risk behaviour can be detected early and that relief measures can be implemented. With the present very difficult local economy, we fear that there will be even more fire-fighting in the future, and that prevention will be down-prioritised. For outlying and risk-seeking young people, there is little provision in the help agencies. Some of these young people are not ‘saw’ until they commit crime and have passed the criminal lavalry. There are examples of child-restraint workers having observed criminal behaviour in minors without being able to intervene, because they have not had sufficient authority to do so. In other cases, there have been no offers that could contribute to a positive development in young people. In the field of child protection, this is one of the groups we want to focus on. Of course, I'm going to be careful to give general advice on children and young people who commit criminal acts, but I have faith that young people should be given the opportunity to settle. If something gets damaged, it should be replaced and repaired. It should happen there and there. We're not going to find ourselves in it or understand children and young people so too well. Rapid reaction and replacement can help children and young people who commit acts of violence. To put it another way: whoever clones down a wall with paint gets so good to wash that wall afterwards. Children actually feel safe by having a frame. Today's child protection is characterized by little participation from elected bodies. It is therefore appropriate to consider measures to ensure that local politicians are given an overview of and take responsibility for the provision of services to municipal child protection. The Labour Party believes that child protection depends on politicians with good knowledge and insight. It is important to insist in this debate that prevention always pays off, both economically and humanly. It requires responsible politicians who grant funds for a good upbringing for all children and young people regardless of their social background.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1262	There are important legislative changes The Storting treats today. Preventing child and youth crime is one of our most important tasks. That is why I am very pleased with the tone of the debate. The broad position we have behind us, and not least the involvement of representatives from my old committee, the family, culture and administration committee, shows that this is a matter which concerns more than the Justice Committee. The representative of the Fallet's post was sweet music in my ears. Taking a quick settlement of crimes committed is good policy. We get back to the media almost daily reminders of the need to pay more attention to the younger offenders. We see examples of children, both above and below the criminal detainee, committing serious criminal acts without this being sufficiently captured by the auxiliaries to date. Children and young people are our future. How we succeed in the work of these people is of great importance to the way in which crime development will go in the future. Criminal behaviour is risky behavior that we have to take seriously, and in my opinion, society has now largely failed these children. It is a fact that in many cases the imposition of prison sentences on young offenders can mean the beginning of a heavier criminal race, by identifying with other criminals, establishing networks and learning methods. It is therefore important that we have other instruments than prison to resort to before young people get a long scroll. In the opinion of the Right, children and young people entering a criminal track are demanding that society seize them and help them get out of a negative development. It is therefore an important measure that the police are now required to investigate crimes committed by children under the age of 15. The launch of research is a clear signal from society that illegal behaviour is not accepted, even if it is under the criminal law. The investigation and resolution of a crime regardless of the person’s presumed age also has an important general and individual preventive effect. It is important to strengthen the role of the police in working with children and young people in the risk zone. If we want to connect the police with targeted and limitative measures at an early stage, much will be done. The ability to charge children and parents to meet with police concerns is important both to involve their parents and to stress to the child that it has an unwanted and unfortunate behavior that may eventually have more consequences. When the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party disagree that the police should have the opportunity to pick up the child and its superior when they do not meet, it is an example, in the opinion of the Right, that the left has not understood the seriousness of this and the need for a clear and consistent line. In the opinion of the Right, non-meeting and non-punishment talks will be a blow to the air and a betrayal of the children in the risk zone. Now, however, I would like to clarify that the police have been given great freedom to exercise discretion in cases where children and parents do not meet for conversation. I feel confident that the police will assess different alternatives, such as: having the conversation outside the police station, before making use of the possibility of pick-up. The possibility for the police to impose a limited residence ban on children aged 12 to 15 is an important and effective tool for children in the risk zone. This may allow the police to follow up more systematically children living in criminal settings, and a ban could make prevention efforts more effective against this group. A residence ban may prevent the establishment of unfortunate environments and, in particular, could contribute to the protection of the child. I am pleased that there is an overall committee that supports most of the proposals, and I have great faith that the measures will make an important contribution to reducing crime and creating a safer society for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1279	I am very pleased that an overall justice policy broadly supports the proposals for legislative measures against childhood and juvenile delinquency. At the same time, I would like to stress that the proposed legislative measures only follow up some of the actions of an interdepartmental working group that issued its report in the summer of 2001. On several occasions, for example: In the proposal now under consideration, I have said that the Government will return to the more fundamental issues of criminal and child policy in 2003. In this context, actions proposed by the Working Party, but not requiring legislative change, will also be considered. The work will be wide-ranging and will not be limited to the actions proposed by the working group. The longer-term follow-up of these issues will also make it natural to evaluate the legislative measures now being promoted. It's by learning and gaining experience along the way that you also get wiser. I have noted the views expressed by the majority of the committee on some of the measures contained in the working group's report and the ministry's proposal, and will take them with me in the further work. I cannot address all the measures in this case, but I take the opportunity to comment on some of the issues. The proposal that the police should have an obligation to investigate offences committed by children aged 12 to 15 is important. The investigation informs the young offender that society is taking the crime seriously, that the investigation could lead to a child’s parents getting knowledge of and the opportunity to follow up the crime, and that the offended person is better cared for. A majority of the members of the Committee request that consideration be given to whether children should be entitled to legal aid during the investigation. I would like to point out immediately that everyone who is suspected of criminal proceedings has the right to be assisted by a lawyer, for example. in the hearing of the police, and this is a right of the police to inform the suspect of, cf. the order for appeals, § 8 1. But I have also taken note of the views of the representative, Mr Kukkestad, and will carry out the supplementary assessment that has been submitted by the Committee. Proposals have also been made for children and parents to be required to attend a conversation with the police. The aim of the conversation shall be to prevent the criminal development of a youth considered by the police to be at risk. In order to achieve the purpose of the meeting obligation, I believe that the police must have the opportunity to pick up the parents and the child for a conversation if they do not meet on a voluntary basis. I am pleased that a majority of the committee members agree with this. As members of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, I believe that in most cases the police will come with good and understandable information, close follow-up and common sense. But I'm afraid this won't be enough in any context. I would also like to take the opportunity to highlight the importance of police working actively with the Child Protection Service. The prosecution authority may now refer the case to the Child Welfare Service if any person under the age of 15 has committed a criminal offence. The child protection service shall inform the prosecution authority of any decision taken. In this context, I would like to underline what the representative of Kukkestad also asked me about. Of course, the police must have good cooperation with child protection on an ongoing basis, and it must be mutual. The Committee shall promote two requests in addition to the legislative proposal. First of all, I would like to point out that there is reason to believe that antisocial personality disorders affect crime, especially the serious relapse crime. Some of those who have such disorders have had ADHD as a child. It is important that professional groups working with children and young people have knowledge of these contexts. To the second request, I would like to point out that the Government already assesses the position of single minor asylum seekers in a number of contexts. This group of children and young people is vulnerable, and I agree with the Committee that it is important to look at their situation separately, including in relation to crime. The Committee asks for feedback on whether police resources allow the intentions of the proposition to be met. In addition, the Government is asking the Government to consider in detail whether the proposals contained in the proposal require an increase in the supply of resources to the police, and to return to this in the budget in 2004. The Ministry has concluded in its proposal that the proposed measures can be implemented within the current budgetary framework. In further work on these issues, the issue of resources will, of course, be important. In addition, the Government will continuously evaluate the impact of the measures. Let me add that of course is one of the basic points that people are going to cooperate. It is under the direction of the Ministry of Justice in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and the Family — and it is a broad spectrum of the approach that has also been expressed in the debate here today — that has been held to seven local conferences. Parents, students, non-governmental organisations, schools, child protection and the police have been there to discuss how we work together. One of the key points is that one has to have relationships that make one work together. I have a political headache. It's like this: there's a lot of frozen money in the frozen roofs. And if one manages to thaw up relationships, frees one not only the human relationships, one also frees the money that's frozen because one doesn't cooperate. In the same way, it's clear that you can see early, you have to respond to it. It's always a preference. That's the main idea. No one has to do with the police, who thinks the police can do this alone. It's just in interaction with others, by mobilizing all the good forces, that it's useful. Let me finally say that I was at Orkanger in the South-Trundellag last Saturday. There were 1,500 people mobilized by youth, mobilized together against violence. Pull together, be the parole. 1,500 in a municipality with 10,000 inhabitants! It was community building.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1307	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1310	First of all, I want to give the Council of State a challenge, and it's going to do the same thing within his government that he, very commendable, encourages people to do in everyday life, namely to cooperate. Because as I see it, one department doesn't know what the other is doing, for example. how the protection of children is to deal with these matters in the future. But that's not what I'm going to ask questions about. I want to talk a little bit about family violence again. Recently, there have been several debates about what we can do with all the so-called family workers – who are otherwise a bad name. I have sailed from the sofa stunned that the children have not been given a greater place in these debates. In fact, I have almost not heard that someone has mentioned them at all. We know that domestic violence has an even stronger effect on the kids growing up with this inroads than it has on those who are directly exposed to the violence, usually the mother, which tells a lot about what this is doing to children. For example, many of these kids are found. on the streets of Oslo, or in Norwegian prisons or institutions. However, I have seen that the debate has finally got a turn against what we are going to do with the perpetrators – in most cases the men. In the position on the NRK 21 January, State Secretary Rita Sletner said it is important to treat violent men. And she probably gave more praise to Alternative to Violence than I've heard publicly from a State Secretary before. However, Per Isdal from ATV pointed out that the ATV economy will be as in crisis this year as it was last year. Does this mean that the Government has still not taken inwards that what is needed now is a rapid commitment to treatment provision for these men?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1319	I practice the call internally in the Government. This is a matter in common with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, and the matter that comes later is in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, because we will not succeed in this without a well-functioning child protection. Of course, part of a well-functioning child protection system is money, but some of it is also that young people in child protection are so safe that they dare to go out and build relationships. We have gradually become so careful that old professionals of mine from before I became a State Council say that it is difficult to get young people to go out. It is safer to sit in an office and move on paper. So then experienced people plus experienced local politicians must provide young field workers with security. Young policemen don't have a chance. They just have to get out, they, and learn. One has to create this collaboration, so that it works. And then, of course, I know that it can't just happen locally, something has to happen at the top of the system also with the whole way a co-operator works. And it's another model, a plan for combating drug problems, with the Oslo Municipality, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Why? Well, because you're going to make sure that whoever doesn't have respect and dignity in his life has a chance. And you have to go together. It will be a police task to drive heavy drug users to a relief measure, not a police task to move them. Then I fully agree with the representative of Thorkildsen on this with children in connection with what we can call family violence, family tragedy – or how we should now express ourselves. I don't want to go into individual matters. I think it's dangerous to do that when we don't know the contexts and the reasons. It's very important. It is underlined both by my side and by other representatives of my department that, when the plan is renewed, we must bet more on both men who can get help and on the children in these circumstances. In the case of ATV, we have a dialogue with them. We know that they're important, and that they're needed, and we're going to scramble so much that we get them to make sure that they can do their social work. I've said that before, and I'm on it from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1328	I know a part that works in child protection. The main problem is that it is so high ‘touring over’. People stop because they can't stand to be there anymore. Maybe there's two main reasons for that. One reason is the negative focus that child protection is constantly gaining, among other things. through the media. Of course, I can't directly charge the Council of State for that. The second reason is the resource situation. It's extremely stressed. It's extremely tough to work in child protection. And it's a very big challenge that no one, no matter how enthusiastic you might be as a state councillor, can handle something without also putting it into action more concretely. Compared to Alternatives to Violence, I understand that you want to give them more space for action. What I think is extremely important is something that Per Isdal sail pointed out in a TV debate – I think it was in position, or it was in Tabloid a little earlier in the evening – on 21 January, that the offer must be nationwide. It can't still be that you have to stay in Drammen, Telemark or Oslo to get help. Most men — and women too — who have a problem of violence in Norway are not offered any help. This requires a tremendous boost, and I hope now that the praiseworthy words that the Government has spent a lot of time in some debates, among others. Here in the hall, where this topic has been raised, we may develop a nationwide offer to violent men. I think that will also be very criminal-preventive in relation to what we are discussing here in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1335	I agree without further delay with the representative of Thorkildsen that child protection is in a tense situation, and I am sure that there are many situations where there is a lot of issues. But one point that can't be stressed enough is that if people are to be able to go into and build relationships, you also have to have the ability, the will and the inspiration to do so. My point was to challenge leaders both locally and nationally to contribute to it, administratively and politically. Neither can child protection, just as little as the police, do this alone. They must be in a community where schools, parents and others are also mobilized. And it's actually an old slogan – I think it was socialist – that I think one should take to heart: together we become strong, because we take each other in hand. I'm a little excited about that slogan, the left man that I am. But I feel that representatives of the emerging left-wing socialist wing do not believe in the enthusiasm and power of ideology. After all, it built this country in poorer and more difficult times! And everyone knows how people are now being framed with forms, circulars and everything -- people can get stuck in their heads! Leaders shall provide guidance to young people to avoid what is not important and to run on what is essential in this Form World. And this form world also affects professionals. Everyone who's close to it knows that, but I'm not going to elaborate on it here, because my life experience has taught me that in some areas it's too little jus, while in other areas it's too infinitely too much. I'll come back to that theme later. In the case of Alternatives to Violence, I am not going to handle the case here. I have said in the past that when the action plan is to be renewed, it will be renewed with emphasis on men and children. And it's been said in the past, by decision in the budget, that we're going to come back with a sensory programme. That's what Stortinget has asked, we're going to work on, and we're going to get back to that. Of course, I recognise the effect of this, but I do not intend to do any processing or budgeting here. I am a person who has it in common with many in the hall that I am working long-term and tough towards what I have decided to try to reach.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1344	It sounded reassuring. The regulatory time is running out of time. With Odelsting's approval, the President will propose that this meeting continue until today's map has been completed. There are three speakers left on the list of speakers, and if I know Odelstinget right, you'll be happy to be able to finish in a short half an hour. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1349	Children and young people commit crime to a greater extent and to a more serious extent than before. Examples of gross violence, robbery, theft and drug law offences committed by children under the criminal detainee are all known from the media. It is bad that such serious crimes are the result of children’s actions. You can stay a long time with the question of why. What makes two 14-year-old girls abuse a peer and sell her for $200? Answers get poor. But one thing is certain: increasing focus on attitudes and actions is necessary. Clear limits to the acceptable, combined with increased respect for each other's differences, are perhaps the greatest challenge of the time. In particular, home and school have a responsibility. If we are to succeed in conveying good patterns of action to our children, we as adults must be good role models. Several of us might have a job to do? Young criminals must experience family and community reactions. We don't accept crime! However, the response must be of care and guidance rather than of traditional punishment. In Ot.prp. No 106 for 2001-2002 several measures are proposed for the follow-up of young offenders. The police are to investigate crimes committed by children under the criminal detainee and the dialogue between police and child protection needs to be improved. Similarly, efforts against parents and senior citizens should be strengthened. The police are given the opportunity to instruct officers and children to meet for a conversation with the police. In such a conversation, the police will be able to communicate their concerns about the child’s actions and behaviour, and the supervisor will gain knowledge so that the necessary action can be taken. It is the parents who have the primary responsibility to take action against a child moving on the inclined plane. As politicians, we would like to call out too easily on public auxiliaries. The Christian People's Party is committed to making parents responsible and highlighting their role as commissioners. They have a difficult, but you world so important, task! By an obligation on the parents to meet for a conversation with the police, those who had to feel the denial as comfortable are forced to see the reality in their eyes. One is forced to recognise that one’s own child has committed crimes and therefore needs special attention and follow-up. I am sure that the police in the conversation situation will not act in a way that robs the appointed trust in the police as a credible and well-meaning body. The Government also proposes the introduction of an admission ban on children under 15 years of age. The home becomes Section 222(c). The residence ban can be imposed if there is a reason to believe that staying in a particular place increases the risk that the child will commit a criminal offence. The residence ban must be clearly defined both geographically and in time and cannot be imposed for more than six months at a time. The ban on residence will have little effect if the police do not use resources to check compliance. In a hectic everyday life for the police, you may worry that the necessary follow-up will be missed. However, the Christian People's Party has confidence that the police will focus on prevention when the effects of police reform are gradually becoming more visible. It is also important to point out that a ban on children will typically apply to areas where police in general have a high level of preparedness. Through this, it is my clear belief that a ban on children and young people will have the desired effect. The government also proposes that it be clarified in the criminal law that mediation in the conflict council can be set as a special condition for conditional judges. Experience has shown that mediation between the perpetrator and the victim can help to combat new crime and to encourage the perpetrator’s adaptation to society. But, of course, such a condition can only be used in cases where the victim accepts dispute resolution. The measures proposed in Ot.prp. point 106 is not sufficient to combat childhood and juvenile delinquency. These measures must be complemented by a well-functioning protection of children, a good schooling day for individuals and safe growing-up conditions. We all know that the challenges in these areas are many. In particular, I would like to point out the need to focus on the child criminals when dealing with child protection messages here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1375	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1378	The undersigned was instead invited by the representative No Marte Thorkildsen to wash his ears. I can only say that I have both washed my ears and rubbed my eyes when I have read the setting of this proposition. The representative has also said that the government must regain its vision, that it cannot see. I'm starting to wonder if she's soon become a self-appointed domestic or hygiene doctor in the Justice Committee. It is such that, in the case of a residence ban, SV will provide a probationary period. We do not think that is necessary. We experience that nine-year-olds are moving around, for example, on Plata in Oslo. It's very unfortunate for a child to move there. And maybe the parents are completely ignorant of this. Then, of course, it is necessary for the police to have some tools. When all other instruments are used up, it is important to have some tools that you can use. It's exciting in instruments that are important to us to use. We also want to have a number of prevention measures in municipalities – in the childcare service, at school, etc. But when it comes to the short term, and all other instruments are used, it is important for us that we give the police an opportunity to give a restraining order for children, and that they may also inform their parents about this. We have to try to think again. We also need to think about new things about police prevention. Another thing I would say is that SV has a very great scepticism that the police should be able to enforce this. They say that they ‘fear that police action priorities will lead to the prohibition not being enforced effectively’ – SV has a genuine scepticism for the police. We don't share that scepticism. So it's this with the forced collection of parents who don't meet for a worried conversation. We're saying it's a meeting duty. However, it may not be a meeting requirement. SV believes when they say that this is a voluntary action. Then it is not mandatory to meet in our opinion. Meetings include a meeting,and if not meetings,can be held by the police — once all other instruments have been used up —require parents. And what's wrong with that? Isn't that the child we're looking to protect? Isn't that what we need to prevent them from getting a criminal racetrack? Therefore, it is important that we use all the resources of society to help and prevent children from coming into such situations. The police have no obligation to summon, but they have a right and an opportunity to do so. Another thing, as I would also say, is that the principles of the Criminal Procedures Act make it impossible for parents to be required to contribute to self-judgement. There is a ban on self-incrimination in Norway, so that there is no need to express yourself as a parent. But we think it's right to have an obligation to meet, and that opportunity should be absolute. The police can, if you don't meet, pick up people so they can meet for a dialogue and a conversation for the child's best.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1388	There has been an interesting debate, and much of the debate has focused on the details of the proposal that exists. What I think we've been missing is raising our eyes a little bit and looking at the attitude challenges that lie here. Because that's the seventh and last thing that this is all about. This is in my opinion about clarifying demands to young people today that violate the boundaries set by society. There are at least two issues that are important. One is the parent of the parent. What responsibility have parents taken? But it is also up to each of us in our presence as a human being in Norwegian society, an obligation to comply with Norwegian rules and laws. I think that many of the young people who get into trouble have been missing the limit. Through it they become the seekers to try out: how far can I go? How far can I test this before it gets a reaction? I don't think it's healthy. I think that one of the most important things we do is to give firm, safe boundaries. I think borders that we're consistent with give security back to the applicant. At least that's important to me. This is where my focus lies, that we have to do things that make visible what we actually want. Then, during the debate, economic conditions have been discussed. The local economy is a problem in relation to this. Personally, I don't think the local economy is rewarding for crime, although some would claim that there is a close relationship between the two. For our part, we who want alternative solutions with greater support for voluntary teams and associations, it will be clear that we are re-prioritising funds that have gone to the municipalities from the old to the old. We want another bet that we think is more focused. Then you say something about poor Norway and poverty in a way is synonymous with crime. It's at least one thing I want to take a strong distance from. Without it being said directly, I think it is implicit in many of the posts that have been held. In terms of bets on the police – yes, it should have been put in quotation marks, because I don't think we have seen it – I would be so bold to say that if the Progress Party had not gone in and taken hold of this, the frames of the police would have looked completely different than they actually do. Then there's been a debate about cooperation, about who we can associate with. I really hope that the Storting is so robust that we deal with the matter and can work out political consensus, which must be the most important thing, not that we shoot it and it because you come from it and that party. It would be a low, and I hope we don't. Finally, the criminal lavalier. It is my reverential claim that there is speculation among some young people today in the criminal valvaldeler. You know quite deliberately: you're under 15 years old, so you're not being held responsible, and ergo you can do things with awareness that it won't have any consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1403	Only a brief clarification in relation to the posts of the representative Dybevig. The police law, which the representative Dybevig should read, states that a child can be brought in according to specific criteria for up to four hours. As a rule, I would like to believe that that child is being driven either home or to the babysitter. And I know that too, because I have, among other things, have been at the centre of the police station and have spoken to those supervising Plata. There it is that if, for example, a child comes to the drug addicts who hang out there, immediately pulls the police out. Then, of course, they take the baby away from there. It's not that we need to have a change in the police law that says something about a restraining order, in order for the police to have that opportunity. So the police aren't the act paralysed to children as it's obvious that it's out there. To clarify it again, we're going to go in order for this to be done as a trial plan. But it's not that we think this is a completely hair-removing proposal. We're actually very insecure, and I've been very honest all along as well. I think it must be possible for a politician to be, and then it could have been an advantage if other politicians too would have wanted to listen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1412	Several have not asked for the word. [[See page 318]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1420	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1743	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1753	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1842	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1852	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1859	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Promist Party proposal No. 2, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party, with the exception of the proposal for Section 3, first paragraph, drawn
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e1898	Section 1 second paragraph and Section 2 have a different proposal. That is proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The following provisions of the Biobanks Act shall be replaced by the following: Paragraph 1, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: The law shall facilitate the use of the material in the biobank for health purposes, including disease prevention, diagnostics, treatment, research, education and nutrition development, in an ethically sound manner. § 2 is replaced by the following: § 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Act, biobank means a collection of human biological material. Human biological material is understood in this Act as organs, parts of organs, cells and tissues, and components of such material from living and dead humans. For the purposes of this Act, a person who transfers biological material to a diagnostic biobank, a treatment biobank or a research biobank shall be understood.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e2004	To these paragraphs there is an aberrant proposal. That is proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 4 is replaced by the following:Section 4 Biobanking The collection of human biological material for the establishment of a biobank shall be notified to the Ministry by the submission of a protocol containing information on the purpose of the establishment, the nature of the material to be contained in the biobank and the number of persons from whom it is obtained or to be obtained. Further information shall be provided on how long the material is to be stored, what is to be done with the material after that time, and who is to be responsible for the biobank in accordance with Section 6.If, within 30 days of receipt of such notification, the ministry has not requested further information in accordance with the first subparagraph, the biobank shall be deemed to be approved and registered after that time. This does not apply, however, if the Ministry has given feedback within the deadline that the biobank cannot be approved or if further information is required to address the issue of approval. The Ministry may by regulation specify the type of information to be notified after the first paragraph. § 5 of the bill is deleted, and §§ 6-22 of the bill becomes §§ 5-21.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e2085	There is an aberrant proposal here. That is proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The following provisions of the Biobanks Act shall be replaced by the following: Section 10 is replaced by the following:Section 10 Transfer to the rest of the world A biobank or parts of a biobank may only be sent out of the country after approval by the ministry and in accordance with the consent of the donor of the material. Requirements for the approval and consent of the department referred to in the first subparagraph shall not apply where the dispatch is carried out in the context of diagnostics or analysis in the interests of the patient. In research projects where all or part of a scientific study must be conducted abroad, the approval of the department is not required. Otherwise, the first paragraph applies.When the material is sent abroad, the person responsible for the biobank shall ensure, according to Section 6, that the material is not used beyond the stated purposes and limits and that the material is not personally identifiable to the recipient.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e2170	Paragraphs 12, 13 and 14 present an aberrant proposal. That is proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 12 is replaced by the following:§ 12 Consent provision for research biobanks Unless there is a specific legal basis or other valid legal basis, the collection, storage and processing of human biological material for research purposes requires the voluntary, explicit and informed consent of the donor. The consent shall be documented and based on information on purposes, risks, discomfort, consequences and other relevant to the validity of the consent. The information and specification requirements must be determined after an assessment of the risk factors, the sensitivity of the material, the vulnerability of the subjects and the like.The biobank material cannot be lent or handed over to others or transferred abroad, unless it results from the consent.A broad consensus can be used if this is beneficial for both individuals and society. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on the scope of the agreement. For extraction of human biological material from a death, the rules of the Transplantation Act on presumed consent to autopsy apply mutatis mutandis. For persons without consent under the Patient Rights Act § 4-3, the Patient Rights Act applies §§4, 4-5, 4-7 and 4-8 for consent to healthcare on behalf of others corresponding to consent to the collection, storage and processing of biobank material for research. Section 13 is replaced by the following:§ 13 Modified, expanded or new use In the case of modified, extended or new uses of previously collected material not covered by the original consent, new voluntary, explicit and informed consent shall be obtained. Where it is impossible or very difficult to obtain new consent, the Regional Committee for Medical Research may waive the requirement for new consent. This applies mutatis mutandis if the use of the material must be presumed to be in the donor’s own interest and does not violate the donor’s personal integrity. In the case of the use of material and information from a deceased person, the presumed will of the deceased and the sensitivity of the material shall be used for the assessment by the Regional Committee for Medical Research Ethics. Due consideration shall be given to the family and relatives of the deceased. The changed, expanded or new use of anonymised material does not require consent, but must be assessed by a regional committee for medical research ethics. Section 14 is replaced by the following:Section 14 Withdrawal of consent Anyone who has given consent under §§ 10-12 may withdraw such consent at any time.If the consent is revoked, the consent holder may require the destruction of the biological material. The right to require destruction does not apply to biological material obtained in connection with diagnostics and treatment. The right to withdraw consent or to require destruction, after the first or second subparagraphs, shall not apply if the material is anonymised or if the material is included in another biological product after processing. Neither does access to destruction apply where the retention of the material is required by law.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e2300	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e2310	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e2317	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-5, by Mr Noma Marte Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, No. 6, from Inga Marte Thorkildsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 6 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall; the others are included in the position on page 12. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider a legislative amendment where the consequence of breaking the meeting obligation means that the case is submitted to the Child Welfare Service as a matter of concern.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider more closely the capacity of child protection and police to effectively prevent and manage child and youth crime in line with the Ot proposals. pp. [[2001-2002]] No 106 Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess whether § 232 of the Criminal Procedures Act should be clarified in such a way as to clarify when the police are required to inform child protection of the initiation of a child investigation. The decision further asks the Government to assess whether the threshold for the transmission of a statement of concern should be lowered.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out evaluations of the measures and to ensure that the children concerned are also heard.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the measures and resource inputs needed to meet the special needs of children and young people diagnosed with ADHD/ADD’.» Proposals Nos. 1 to 5 will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e2457	A different proposal is made for the new fifth subparagraph. That is proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The new fifth paragraph of Section 222c of the Criminal Procedure Act shall be replaced by the following:This provision shall apply for a probationary period of 2 years from the date of entry into force of the Act.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e2560	The President has understood that the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left will go against the fifth paragraph, third and fourth sentences.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e2603	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-23-lower.ana.ud2123e2613	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
