ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e28	The representative Jorunn Ringstad, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e36	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e41	I suggest Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e46	Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve is considered unanimously elected president of today’s meeting in Stortinget. The representative, Ola D. Glötvold, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e51	On behalf of Åslaug Haga, Morten Lund and myself, I would like to make proposals on the recovery of debt in health businesses for 2002 and 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e56	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e79	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Valgerd Svarstad Haugland State Council Lars Sponheim State Council Svein Ludvigsen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative, Inge Ryan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e98	I want to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question. Today, 12 farms are being closed down in Norway. This happens every day 365 days a year. In total, there are more than 4,000 abandoned farms this year, or 10 pst. of all uses dropped in one year. In the opinion of SV, this is very dramatic. Is the Minister for Agriculture satisfied with this development? If the answer to the question is yes, it is just to sit calm, because it will probably also shut down at least 4000 farms next year. If the Minister of Agriculture is not satisfied with developments, I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture what he intends to do with this serious situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e107	The President notes that the Minister of Agriculture has not intended to sit still. He's already got up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e110	I understand that there is an opportunity to answer more than yes and no to this pulpit. I then choose to do that by saying that it is right that according to the preliminary statistics we have for the application procedure per. By the end of July, in applying to the country for subsidies to agricultural holdings, the number of applicants has fallen slightly more than we have in recent years — just under 5 pst. on average over the last four to five years, and now we feel that it's 1.8 pst. higher than that. We understand this change, and we consider it so in the Ministry of Agriculture that it is related to two factors. One thing is that this is the time we're catching up with new rules that say that with an annual turnover of less than NOK 30,000, or a monthly turnover of NOK 2500, they can no longer apply for grants. It's captured in this round. It will not be caught in new rounds, for it is removed at one turn. The second is that we have a significant increase in the scale of the establishment of joint ventures. Four ordinary farmers merge into one cooperative, and many of them apply through one application. Are then four farmers becoming one farmer by that they still live on their gardens, driving the earth and running their own tractor, or are there still four farmers? This statistics then captures that four farmers have become one farmer. It explains this particular situation. Then we just have to state that since the war we have had a significant fall in the number of uses in traditional farming in Norway. That development does not stop. I think it's impossible to stop it. The main instrument of agricultural organisations has been to increase farmers’ incomes. Now we've had two years with record revenues for the farmers. Just as fully progress continues, and it probably has completely different connections in the economy. My answer is that if we are to take care of the dwelling and activity of the gardens, we have to provide additional activity for the ordinary farm. Farmers have to process food more, farmers have to work with travel life – farmers can run with a completely different type of nutrition. In fact, I think it's good to get villagers in the Nord-Trøndelag and elsewhere where farmers run with 20 goals and IT and not only 100 goals and cows, if we want to live in the villages and take care of our branches.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e123	The President will assume that the Council of State with the «war» aims for World War II.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e126	Well, that's normal, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e131	I agree with the Council of State that an active policy is needed to ensure that rural areas also have other types of industries as well as those with normal food production. So that's where we agree. But I have an additional question for the Council of State. A majority in the Grand Duchy is in favour of the Government's proposal for the maximum liberalisation of the concession law. This means that price regulation and housing for properties under 100 dekars disappear. It is the Progress Party that supports the Government in this matter. My question is: is the Minister of Agriculture satisfied with the fact that the Progress Party is the only ally in this important agricultural policy issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e138	I am very pleased that the government gets a pass for another point in the Sem statement, which, in my opinion, will have a positive effect on the towns. So we're talking about gardens that have up to 20 decks of cultivated land. That means we're barely touching those we talked about in the previous question, about who is applying for grants. So it's a garden that people live for, and it's not. This cancellation allows you to get a price for these gardens, so that they might be placed on the market, and those who are interested can buy them. Today, these will be priced so low through traditional agricultural taxing that very many of them will not be traded, but will be held with owners who are not very engaged in the properties, which will cause many of them to fall due. We all see that when we travel around Norwegian villages. That's the most important change. So the obligation to live does not go away. The national residence obligation is terminated for these properties, but municipalities have the freedom to adopt a zero and non-residential area limit if they so wish. And the government believes in local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e144	There will be three follow-up questions – first Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e147	With the agricultural policy mentioned by the Council of State, which has been followed by the war, agriculture is given enormous support and huge subsidies, as opposed to 19 billion DKK every year, when we include the protection aid. Despite this costly policy, we have had the largest movement of people in Norway's history from the districts to the central strata. We've got a fury in the number of farmers, no matter what you put into it. It has not been possible to meet the housing objective or the income objective. This policy is obviously a failure. Let us not now look at the other Nordic countries, which have taken the consequences of a past misguided policy and adapted to the world of reality, for example. Finland, where very much can be compared with Norway, where farmers have regained their faith in the future? They have got fewer farmers, but production keeps up, and food prices go down. Should not Norway also now carry out similar reforms? Shouldn't it happen relatively quickly before the customs walls fall?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e152	I disagree with the representative Hedstrøm, who says that it has not been a successful policy. It's just traveling around the countryside in Norway, so you see that there's people living there. These are well-established agricultural areas. It's well-steeled and repainted buildings. One can take a similar trip in Sweden and Finland, and then one will see rural people who definitely do not have the same impact on an active agricultural landscape. This has been worth it. Then to the subsidies. Transfers of the state budget to Norwegian farmers in the mid-1980s amounted to just under 7 pst. of the disbursement of the State budget. Now it's approx. 2 pst. So the costs to the Norwegian society of caring for this well-off agricultural landscape all over Norway have actually accounted for an ever smaller share of the budget. I think we're going to stick to a trend that is moving towards fewer traditional uses, towards more robust uses, by making more use, but combining it with adding other industries to the countryside. Then we can be a different country in the sense that people not only live in cities but also live in viable rural areas in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e161	Åsa Elvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e164	I want to follow up with a question to the Minister for Fisheries. What the main questioner's question is about, is ultimately constancy. So we've seen a parallel development in the fishing industry to what we've seen in the agricultural industry, with a large decrease in the number of units also in the fisheries industry, as it has been in the agricultural industry – from 1988 with 22 000 fishermen on pages B to 2001 with 14 000 fishermen on page B. Today we have a unemployment in many fisheries-dependent municipalities that are up to 10 pst. This is a dramatic development. The government's answer to it was last year that a cut in the lines of the Fisheries Competence Centre. This year, one is cutting off security training for fishermen, and one has this year given priority to getting rid of even more of the smallest boats, resulting from the additions to the feeding of fish from small coastal reception facilities to fish processing plants. This is not a policy that facilitates building and working in the districts, on the contrary. Is the Minister for Fisheries concerned about the development of the construction as a result of the development of primary industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e171	The fishing industry has an important task of maintaining coastal settlements and jobs. It is also important to be able to use local resources. We see that both the number of fishermen and the number of vessels have been reduced over a long period, in fact, throughout the period after World War I. This is related to several aspects, such as: that in the 1990s we had record low quotas, which in turn have had consequences for profitability, which in turn have had consequences for recruitment, which in turn have had consequences for the housing pattern. We now see that resources are increasing, not least thanks to the administration that has been. It will help to ensure the raw material base for industry. And we see that through the structural measures to which the Storting has agreed, we will be able to increase profitability and bring about a renewal of the fleet, which will allow us to use the 100 pst resources, because that's a bit of the big challenge we're facing. Then it's important that we, through regulation, be able to make a smooth flow of raw material to the industry companies, because that's the backbone of the housing pattern itself. And getting a greater degree of industrial thinking into the industry is a major challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e176	Marit Arnstad – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e179	I'm going to move back to the leader of the Left and the Minister of Agriculture on my question. I fully agree with Mr Elvik that this together is about the policy of this Government in the primary industries, both fisheries and agriculture, in terms of centralisation and settlement. There is now a lot of evidence that this government is not trying to stop centralisation, but on the contrary, it facilitates entirely conscious measures to increase centralisation. Agricultural concession policy is an example of this. What is happening in the context of the structuring of fisheries and the last of the management grants is another example of it in the fisheries sector. And the question one has to ask is what agriculture and what fisheries it really is this government wants us to have. Everyone recognizes that we have had a decrease in the number of uses in the past, and that it has been a centralization. Everyone acknowledges that there has also been a decline in fisheries. But what we now have to ask ourselves is whether it is a misguided policy from this government that a person should actually get a transfer from the smaller uses and from the smaller fisheries, with the consequences it gets for cultural landscapes and for jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e186	The President will assume that it is the Minister of Agriculture who is the right person, and not the leader of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e189	It is that the government is working to bring about a decentralized agriculture that is robust and not just referred to in party speeches, but actually should be a reality. The trend in incomes that has been in agriculture in the last two to three years is the highest we have recorded in a very long time. All those who have participated in this debate over the last 10–30 years have said that the main means of ensuring Norwegian-garden housing is to ensure a good income base. So let's do that. But despite that, we see that many more farmers choose to do other things. Most people stay on their gardens – there are lights in the houses in the villages – but they do other things. Maybe the neighbor runs the ground, you run other industries yourself, or you do payroll. It's evolution. The government's policy is to ensure that we keep people living on the gardens, even if you have to have an extended income base, live on other things. In a society with as high a level of well-being as Norway has and as we are going to develop further, there are many new production areas within which agriculture can work by providing services to the Norwegian community. And that's what the Government is working for through the Agriculture Pluss project.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e194	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e198	I have a question for the Minister of Culture. One of the characteristics of long-distance Norway is that we have a fantastic flora of small local guides. We have 140 few-day newspapers with almost 2 million readers. There are newspapers that mean a great deal to identity, local culture, democracy and debate, and in this country most of these newspapers are sent out through the Post. There are few places in Norway where you can have an effective bidding system, as you have in the big cities. Now the Post has increased the postage for these newspapers from 1 January 2004 by several tens of millions. At the same time, we know that many of these newspapers are balancing just on the edge of what they can do. This may mean that very many readers around Norway may be at risk of losing their local way. I wonder what the Minister of Culture has intended to do to ensure that these newspapers can continue to come out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e207	The representative, Giske, addresses a very serious issue which, of course, supports me as Minister of Culture, but the main responsibility lies with the Minister of Transport. I'm sure the representative knows that too. This applies to postage, and it applies to the post office. There have been negotiations between the newspaper industry and the Post. These negotiations are now complete. What's the end of them is that from New Year's onwards, the prices of newspaper distribution go up by an average of 17 pst. I know you've asked for a meeting with the Minister of Transport for this issue. I don't know the outcome. It's hard for me to go into detail. But this decision we just got on the table, and we still don't know how to move on with it. We had hoped that there would be something more goodwill from the Post to make good agreements with the newspapers, because this is important for distribution. And we're forced to follow closely what's happening to the newspapers. We're not going to draw the conclusions right now. It is important that the negotiating institute here should go its way. I just have to wait for the meeting to be between the Minister of Transport and the newspapers, and then we'll see what the Government can do next, but we have no answer to that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e216	I thank you for the answer, although I find it a little bit unsatisfactory when we talk about that there are eight weeks until this new postage comes into force and the increased cost comes for these newspapers. We have had the Minister of Transport here in the past, and the Minister of Transport shows that media policy is the responsibility of the Minister of Culture. It doesn't keep shifting responsibility on each other, so here the government has to take a roof together to secure all of these local ways. It's quite dramatic if people around Norway are going to lose their paper because the state through the Post is going to take more into postage. It doesn't cost more to bring out these newspapers than what it did before, yet you increase the postage. In this respect, it must be possible to either increase dividends from the Item and apply it to grants to these newspapers, instruct the Item, or change the terms of the concession. Which method you use is not the most important for those who get the paper. The most important thing is to keep the local style, which means something for local settlement, identity and democratic word change. I encourage the Minister of Culture to be a little more specific about how the eight weeks up to the New Year's Eve will be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e227	I ask the representative to take seriously the responsibilities. Media policy is my responsibility. We have put forward a government budget based on the situation when we presented it, and it will be dealt with here in the Storting. Then it has our negotiations, and it is the responsibility of the Post. I would like to remind the representative that the Post was converted into an AS a few years ago. Since it's turned into an AS, Posten has other and freer tools than when it wasn't an AS. I can also remind the representative what his own party voted for when one made the Post into an AS. We have per cent. current date not a full overview of what this will have for the local views, because the negotiations are just finished. I would like to have a tool to direct the Post, but that tool is actually taken from the Government. The representative shakes his head, but then he doesn't really care how these things work. We'll follow closely, and then we'll have to see what we can do next. This government is as busy by the local viewer as the query. Then we'll have a conversation with the Minister of Transport about, for example, the proposals made by the representative, whether or not they can be a way of solving problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e236	There will be follow-up questions – Magnar Lund Bergo.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e239	I expect the Council of State, as we do in EN, to have a goal of keeping the local vis-à-vis flora in Norway and caring for the diversity of opinion. If possible, they must also have predictability in their actions. There's a lot of uncertainty in the newspaper industry right now. We get that. Good postal services at reasonable prices must be an important part of the infrastructure in the country. In fact, the Post has been privatised, but they are in a monopolistic situation, and they operate on concession. The post office now says they have no cultural policy responsibility. Does the Council of State think that's a good statement? And further, there are three ways that the Council of State can at least contribute. Governments may provide compensation, postage aid or production grants. Have these measures been assessed and, if appropriate, will they be assessed? In the SV we believe that the post office's main task is to go with the post office and not go with profits.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e248	I'm not completely disagreed in the last representative said. It's obvious that when we find out what the consequences are, we have to look at the tools we have. The representative drew up a number of ways to solve this and the representative Giske has drawn up other ways. I want to go into a dialogue with the Ministry of Transport and also with the Government to find out what we can do, because we're concerned that these locals are still going to be able to be available around the local environment, and not least that people moving from home are going to have the opportunity to get a local view, and not to go into the doll. As I said, the negotiations have just ended. I know there's going to be a meeting between the Minister of Transport and the newspapers. I don't know when to meet. But we have a close dialogue about this, and we have to look at how we're going to deal with this in the future. But we don't have the fasit today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e255	Ulf Erik Knudsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e258	It should not be possible to know much about the economy to understand that what has happened in this area could be a disaster for the individual businesses and the individual newspapers. The Council of State refers to the negotiating possibilities in this area. As far as I am concerned, negotiations have taken place over a relatively long period of time without them leading forward. The Post says, as it is right, that it has no responsibility for cultural policy. The main problem in this context lies in the monopoly situation of the Post. You don't have an alternative, you don't have an alternative to negotiate with. And some of this is because the Post has a monopoly on a good part of this business. What will the Council of State do to increase the speed of competition in this market, so that prices for individual newspapers can be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e267	This is a question that I do not consider to be under my responsibility, so I choose to let the person who is responsible for it answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e272	Torny Pedersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e276	I listened to the answer that was given to Trond Giske, and would record a little from it. State owner Item 100 pst. Then I think it's a little bit wrong that you should hide behind that it's an AS. We're the ones who decide the terms of the concession. The negotiations between the Post and the newspapers are over and the Post has decided. Now I think the government should really intervene. And then I ask, what are they really going to do? We don't have that long. And what are they really going to do to make the newspapers better, not least the district newspapers? That is the freedom of expression we are really talking about. It is the district newspapers that really get the biggest problems. The problems don't just apply to Post, but to me coming from the north. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e283	The President must remind us that speaking time is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e286	First of all, I want to remind the representative that when it comes to the VAT reform, it was the previous government that presented the case, not the sitting government. We've followed up on what the Storting has decided in that area. In addition, there is zero VAT in the case of the media, precisely because it is also important to ensure the economic basis of the newspapers. So it's not about hiding behind that Post has become an AS. The entry is an AS, and when it has an AS, it has a number of game rules, game rules that the Post must follow, and not least the Government. It's not that we can just AS-validate the one company after another and if they do something we don't agree with them, we're going to start controlling them. It doesn't work like this. Therefore, we are forced to follow the lines we have in relation to AS. And again, there's a violation of the negotiations between the Post and the newspapers. The breach has recently occurred, and the Government has not yet said what it can do. We have to come back to that when we have discussed it. I can also repeat that the Minister for Transport will have a meeting with the newspapers and their organizations, and then we will have to take this matter into consideration. But I can't come up with an answer to what we're going to do, a few days after the breakup is a fact. I want to remind the representative that the breach came on November 3, and it is not that many days ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e295	Eli Sollied Practices – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e298	I think it is very good to right that the Minister of Culture confirms that she is responsible for media policy and that she wants to enter into a dialogue with the Minister of Transport. I was very worried when the Minister for Transport used the argument for a three-year transitional period when it concerns the postage, as an argument that he could be put to work. I assume that the Council of State is well aware of St.meld. No 57 for 2000-2001, ‘In the service of freedom of expression. Media policy objectives and instruments’, which stress not least the need for a lack of newspapers in all parts of the country to take part in democracy. My question to the Minister of Culture is: does the Minister of Culture see this as overarching the objective of media policy in this matter as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e309	Having a lack of newspapers in Norway is very important, fortunately we do, and I sincerely hope that we will continue. As I said, we haven't analyzed what these 17 pst. In postage additions, we want to say for each newspaper, so far we don't have come. We haven't had that many days, and I'd like to draw it in one more time. Of course, I want to engage in dialogue with the Minister of Transport to find out what we can do. The Minister of Transport is also very busy with that issue, but we don't have the same means of working with the Post as we had before. But there are several ways to solve this. What we're going to conclude with, I don't know, but it's going to be made known when that conclusion is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e316	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e319	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. Food prices are rising strongly in Norway — so much so that more and more consumers are having problems accepting it. SIFO figures show that food prices in Norway increased by 6.5 pst. last year, while prices of other goods increased by 3.5 pst. This has a negative impact on the agricultural sector, which is becoming less competitive. This, of course, is negative for consumers. I would like to remind you that when we got a halve of the food tax on 1 July 2001, it was a prerequisite that these tax cuts should benefit consumers. So my question is: will the Minister of Agriculture carry out margin surveys at all stages of the food chain to see who has the ‘eating’ most in terms of the tax cuts in relation to the food tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e328	Yes, I will. That's what I announced when these numbers came from SIFO and we had the debate about them. At the turn of the year, it's going to be three years since we introduced half the food tax. We got the instant effect that was going to be there. It's probably a somewhat unclear picture of what happened afterwards. The way we understand the number base we have per. Today, if you can say so, the substantial reduction in food tax is still on the hands of consumers. But it's quite clear that the different terms also have more of this. As half of the food tax was introduced, it was not thought to freeze the price level. Cost developments and ongoing developments in society are still to be captured. However, it is still important for the Government to ensure that a significant part of the halving of the food tax will be reflected in consumer prices. That's why we want to have a full review – now that we have three years of experience with half the food tax – to see which different terms have sprung out of farms with the price increases that have been in the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e337	Prices in Norway thus increase significantly, while Lidl and others contribute to prices in e.g. Sweden and Finland are being held down. In a situation where the Minister of Agriculture has called for lower food prices in Norway, or – according to the Sem Declaration – for the reduction of price differences, he will at the same time increase the meat inspection fees in Norway, which has already been on the European top. I, as an opposition politician, have difficulty understanding the context here. On the one hand, you have to reduce price differences or get lower food prices. On the other hand, the meat inspection fee is increased to twice — and is at the top of Europe. How does this relate? How, then, will it be possible to develop a competitive processing industry/agriculture sector in Norway in terms of prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e344	Firstly, I would like to say that the most important way to keep prices at the lowest possible level with our cost picture is to have an active competition. Because we have been shown quite clearly that we also have higher prices of products in Norway in completely different areas than food. Sweden. Therefore, ensuring competition at all levels is an important tool. In its proposal for a State budget, the government has proposed to increase the total cost of food, with a proceeds of 195 million. kr, in order to be able to finance the new food supervision. It is true that meat has been a free passenger for the purposes of continuous supervision for all years. We have our own meat inspection fee, which is something other than the general food fee. It's payment, hourly rate, for veterinarians standing by the assembly line and checking. This is to be legally funded by the users. But then meat has released another fee over all these years. That's what we're getting right now -- the same kind of charge on land-to-table supervision that every other food has. It's no unreasonableness. Meat has been free of charge in this area for all years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e354	There will be follow-up questions – Grethe Fossli.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e357	Safe food is also good health and health prevention. It's not just a consumer question. That is why the Ministry of Health is also behind the new Food Act. The new Food Authority has many tasks. Among other things, it shall carry out investigative tasks, with international work, contacts, etc. This costs money. Should it not be the responsibility of the State to contribute to good health prevention and health work by financing the new food supervision to a greater extent than is proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e364	Let me first make it clear that there are three departments responsible for the new food control – and the whole food area. In addition to the Ministry of Health, which is responsible for the law and a Scientific Committee, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Agriculture share the operational responsibility for food supervision. I share the opinion that it is a significant public responsibility to ensure that we have a well-functioning public food inspection. This is not least what has to do with regulatory development in this area. It is also not suggested to roll it over to the users. When it comes to continuous supervision, directly adding value to those who make food sales, I think it's natural that it's the individuals who contribute to paying this. The government has proposed that. The alternative is, of course, budgetary statements. We know that there are demanding exercises to get money, not least during the treatments in this house. I would strongly warn against proposing to reduce the level of ambition we now have for the Food Authority, with the costs proposed in the next year's budget. It will be dramatic for Norwegian food security.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e375	Inge Ryan – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e378	SV will not participate in the howl that the food is so expensive in Norway. In fact, we want to pay tribute to the Minister of Agriculture because he focuses on quality and on being concerned about safe food. But I want to raise a question in relation to this with control. Once we have had consultations in the committee, there is no doubt that the control bite is very expensive in Norway. We know that in many areas we are a precious country, and that we are regulated by many agreements that we cannot afford. WTO, EEA, etc. gives us clear guidance on what we need to do in agricultural policy – unfortunately. But on the control side we have something more freedom of action. Then it becomes very strange for many of us that we should be in a way the most expensive country – at least in Europe – on the control side. Is it not possible to reduce the cost of controlling the industry, so that we sort of get to the same level as other countries in Europe, and that the state takes a greater part of this cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e385	I would like to get some clarification again – because we are talking about a little different things: the meat control is a dedicated business we are going to run, which is to be paid by the users. That's what we know as the official veterinarian who's standing at every slaughter band in Norway and checking that the animals don't have Trichinella and other things we don't want to get in, and that puts a public stamp. And we know that it's a high hour to have a veterinarian standing there. It is financed through its own fund and currently costs 50 øre per. kilos of meat. It is not the general supervision to ensure that we have safe food, which starts on the ground, starts with residues of sprays, etc., and ensures that the food we receive is safe. In addition, the overall Food Authority should do so. The meat sector has not paid so far, while everyone else has paid buttons 2 pst. of the commodity price. The government invites the meat sector to pay the same amount as other food groups pay for the overall supervision, but which is not related to the statutory specific meat inspection on the band. This is about approx. 41 cents in the state budget. And in relation to safe food – not least these days, with debate on smuggler meat and unstamped meat – Norwegian consumers and carnivores should be pleased that we can have such extensive food supervision in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e390	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e393	I want to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question. Not only is the number of farms being severely reduced, but the fishing industry is now undergoing a rather severe structural change. There shall be fewer fishing vessels and probably fewer fishermen as well. Through the arrangements under the next year’s fisheries agreement, the Government has seen it as more important to give priority to measures to reduce the smallest part of the coastal fleet than to give priority to measures to ensure the most vulnerable fishing recipients, and I am thinking of cutting the lead grant. If these small fish recipients disappear, the exposed part of the fishing fleet, namely the smallest vessels, will again be severely affected. As a result, many small coastal communities will be affected by an enhanced deportation. So this is part of a centralisation policy. Does the Minister for Fisheries think this is a development that is ok?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e402	It appears that the issue is based on a misconception that the fisheries agreement would involve a notified cut in the management grants. Let us be clear that there was a breach in the negotiations. Then there was on the table an offer from the state of 50 million. NOK plus 35 million. for structural measures, i.e. Eighty-five million. kr. Last year there was an agreement of 70 million. kr, plus that we in the revised national budget plus 16.5 million. kr. The last demand from Norway's Fiskarlag was 200 million. kr. There was no basis for moving on. The matter is now under consideration in Stortinget. Then I hear that the question is based on the fact that in the proposal under consideration in the Stortinget, it should have been notified of a cut in the lead grant. Unfortunately, I find that Norway’s raw fish teams have contributed to this disinformation by stating that at least there is not much more than 10 million. kr which may be made available for a management grant. It is an indication which is not linked to the facts, for first the Grand Duchy must adopt it, and then, in line with the legislation and practice that have existed, the Government will determine the distribution in the new year. And then we have to get back to this with a leadership grant. But there's nothing to suggest that we end up not being a leader's grant until next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e409	I should perhaps be a little more cautious about specifically entering into the fisheries agreement, which, as the Minister for Fisheries rightly says, is being dealt with in the Storting. However, it is a fact that the Government has prioritised a measure to structure the smallest part of the coastal fleet through proposals for next year's fisheries agreement at the expense of other measures. The measures contained in the fisheries agreement are welfare measures and there are, in general, measures to ensure the most vulnerable part of the industry. It is not possible to get away from the fact that when it comes both to structuring the smallest fleet and to making the industry more difficult through the measures proposed by the Government now — a possible peace of the coastal cod is another example — this will, in some cases, affect small communities. My question to the Minister for Fisheries, who has not yet been answered, is: Does the Minister for Fisheries think it is right that the Government is consistently pursuing a policy that is depleting the small communities – small farms are disappearing, and the small fishing communities are affected in the same way?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e416	It is a false claim that the Government is pursuing a policy with the objective that is being drawn up here, and I reject one of the main arguments and the main issue relating to structure and settlement, namely that through the fisheries agreement we should have removed the lead grant to the fleet. It also admits the questioner is a question raised on a failing basis. Unfortunately, Norway’s raw fish teams — of all — have contributed to creating such an impression. In this way I find it very regrettable that an organisation sees itself well served to contribute. I'm also amazed that you use the coastal cod as an attack on the government. We are trying, through what is now being negotiated with the Russians and the regime to be established, both to maintain the coastal cod as a resource and to maintain fishermen and the settlement of the fjords in the best possible way. So the Stortinget has agreed to a structuring of the entire coastal fleet, not the smallest fleet, but the entire coastal fleet. The resources thus released shall remain in the groups they have been, and thus we shall secure the smallest fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e426	There will be three follow-up questions – first Bendiks H. Arnesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e429	There is evidence that there is a breach in the negotiations and that there is no need to cut the lead grant. It is feared that the combination of the cuts now available and the changes, among others: in relation to condensation, many coastal communities shall be stooped. Then I would like to ask: what does the Council of State expect you to cut, if you do not want to cut the leadership grant, when these negotiations are to take place? And does the Government – I repeat the question that was raised – believe that there is a need to change the pattern of residence in our country drastically? Is that what is behind all these amendments?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e436	Now I think that you're drawing the fisheries agreement a little bit long, given a breach after an offer of 85 million. kr, which is the sum of 50 million. NOK 35 million. kr, in relation to the last year’s agreement of 70 million. kr, draws the consequence that this would be the dramatic instrument to change the housing pattern. We have found a breach in the negotiations. Then it is good practice for the matter to be sent to Stortinget and decided there, and that, after it has been done, we decide the distribution of the 50 million. kr which is then free of 35 million. kr has already been earmarked for structural measures. Then it is not that I have notified that we are not going to cut the lead grant. We have to adopt this first, and then we have to decide how to distribute the 50 million. kr which forms the basis of the proposal in Stortinget. But I find that those who have now distributed it and claim that it is just a little over 10 million. kr is not covered by those claims. That's disinformation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e443	Åsa Elvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e446	The Minister of Fisheries can't help but avoid narrowing the limits to 50 million. kr will go out on something. It must either go beyond welfare measures, such as the warranty card, guidance supplements or additions to lineaging centres. So the two last ones are relatively small amounts, but they're going very far to maintain the smallest fleet and the smallest facilities along the coast. I have seen that some fishermen, especially coastal fishermen, and the smallest fleet feel that this government is failing. I note that the fishing blade uses quite strong words on the pitch in the Friday newspaper, where they say that the Minister for Fisheries says that he wants to ‘change to preserve’ is meaningless, and that he should rather talk about ‘changing to destroy’. These are pretty strong words from the biggest coastal fishing newspaper. I also record that the fishermen feel that they have failed because this government is giving priority to getting rid of the smallest boats rather than making it possible for small boats and small receptions to survive. Is the Minister for Fisheries satisfied with the situation he is now?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e457	It is no more right that the representative makes the claim that this government should have the small boats removed. We have implemented, with the support of the Storting, an action to structure the fleet to increase profitability. The resources released shall be returned to those groups. This means that the smallest fleet will have a better operational base. Then we get a break in the negotiations after the last claim from the Fiskerlag is 200 million. kr. This year's agreement is 70 million. kr. We have put forward a proposal of 50 million. NOK plus 35 million. kr. It is a proposal that is now under discussion in Stortinget. The 50 million. kr shall be allocated for more than one purpose if it is reasonably practicable, but first the amount shall be adopted by the size. We also have to include that last year there were 38 food supplements. In addition, there were warranty tickets, in addition there were among other things. self-anxiety and some other measures. We will then distribute this to the new year when the Stortinget has adopted it, but there is no need to draw scares, which you now contribute to, whether you refer to the fishing magazine or to the Norwegian raw fish team, and claim that there will be no lead subsidies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e464	The President would point out that for those who are not members of the professional committee concerned, it seems that both questions and answers have now been repeated many times. Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e469	Maybe the president's not quite right about that. In any case, when you not only listen to what the government is saying, but also look at what this government is actually proposing in the fishing industry, it is difficult to conclude otherwise than that what you are facing here in the fishing industry is a wild centralization. My question to the Minister for Fisheries is: Has the Government obtained any overview of how many fishermen are going to leave the industry as a result of the structural changes that the Government has now implemented together with the Progress Party? And if you reduce the lead grant, how many local receptions are going to go away? Has the Minister for Fisheries made any calculations on that? And further, has the Minister for Fisheries made any assessment of what the measures that are now either implemented or can be proposed will actually mean the settlement along the coast of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e476	We are beginning to withdraw from the fisheries agreement, because what we are now discussing is the debate that was linked to the structural measures and that the Stortinget has adopted. It's wrong to say that this is a wild centralization. We see that throughout the post-war period, and then the second world war is about, we've had a reduction in the number of fishermen in fleets, and we see that the same thing happens on the industry side. It has something to do with resource base, and it has something to do with lack of profitability. What we are doing now through several measures is turning back an unfortunate development. The worst thing we could do would be to do nothing, as the representative Arnstad recommends us to do. Then it would have gone even worse. We are now turning around by ensuring profitability, ensuring recruitment and ensuring the operational basis for fishing industry holdings on an annual basis. And then it's like this government is doing more in the fisheries sector to stop a development, than the government has done in advance of the work we've started, and for which we've been approved in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e483	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e486	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. I don't think that's a big surprise. We've expanded the territorial limit to 12 nautical miles. We're going to set up a traffic centre in Vardø, and that's good. At the same time, a sample of the Ministry of Fisheries has been reduced to ensure that fishing vessels are subject to mandatory seagoing fishing obligations. They are subject to “turning points” compulsory. It doesn't help much if you're having trouble out there. You can't give up much while you're out in trouble. Does the Minister for Fisheries intend to do anything about this, i.e. that the fishing vessels are obliged to do so? People require answers to that, because they don't think that's true. It would be very nice to get ready in this house if the Minister of Fisheries has intended to do something, and if he can do something, and what you can imagine to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e496	The representative Bastesen raises a number of issues that may not necessarily be related, such as the territorial border, the fairways and the compulsory care problem. But as it's referred to, these are the things that we're working on in the ministry. I probably need to get those recommendations and get these issues highlighted before I draw any conclusions. Once we have reached the conclusion and have gone through these things, I would like to help, both in the Storting and towards individual representatives, to arrive at the basis for our decision and the decision to be taken. In fact, however, both legal and international conventions and regulations regulate this with traffic and compulsory retirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e505	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm standing here, and I've been fishing. I know the IMO rules. The fact that fishing vessels are subject to removal duties in the direction of navigation is nothing new. The Ministry of Fisheries should know that too. People require an answer, whether it is really the case that the sample, set up by the Ministry of Fisheries, is in favour of fishing boats being forced to fly. There's nothing that you need to send out to the hearing. It's just like that. That's what we signed. What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e514	In the context of increased traffic along the Norwegian coast, the Government and the Stortinget have seen the need to extend the territorial border. It will be in place from 1 January 2004. In this context, the need to establish fairway managers within the territorial border has been seen, in order to guide traffic as far off the coast as we can under international conventions. This does not prevent traffic from going further, and much of the traffic will go beyond the territorial border. It is then natural when we establish the fairways, that we review the entire regulatory framework and the management of traffic in the fairways. In that context, we're looking at all the issues. But it is not possible for me to answer anything more specific about the problem that is being addressed here. I think we should now have work done in connection with the establishment of the fairways, before drawing any further conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e521	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e524	I would like to ask the Minister of Culture a question. With regard to media policy in Norway, we want greater diversity, including in the ether. When we look at the competitive conditions of the commercial channels and the non-commercial ones, we will see that in recent times there has been a distortion in favour of the commercial, simply because the challenges for those who do not have commercial revenues are much larger, linked to a number of major challenges in the future, both in the context of digitisation, the ground, children's and youth programmes and the concession terms agreed by the Minister and the Stortinget. My question to the Minister of Culture is: does the Council of State see that this competitive situation can continue in the same way as it is now, namely in the face of a channel that is too many of us a great deal of pressure, namely a non-commercial, a non-advertising channel? I know the Minister for Culture agrees with that. But it's clear that what we're seeing now, through the latest government budget proposal, is in practice favoring the commercial channels, simply because the channels that don't live by advertising don't have the same possibility of other revenue, like that. advertising channels.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e533	It was a fairly comprehensive and very important question. Now, I mean, the more than three billion that we allow to the NRK via the broadcasting fee, absolutely should be a good addition to NRK in order to run good, non-commercial broadcasting. There are many problem settings, and there are several of them in Stortinget. The representative referred to digitisation and ground-level. I hope we can come to an agreement there, so that we can start building up a groundline, so that the competitive conditions between the different agencies can be improved. We have chosen in this country to have a state-funded channel, NRK, and we have some advertising-funded TV and radio channels. That's how I think it'll be in the future. With the proposal we have put forward in the State budget when it concerns the NRK, we think that the NRK should be absolutely able to implement good programmes that show that the NRK is an alternative to many of the commercial broadcasters. I agree with the representative that it may seem that the programme provision is becoming more and more similar. It's a challenge for the NRK. Now, as a general meeting in the NRK, I don't want to go in and start conducting what broadcasts and programs they're going to have. I believe that the representative also agrees that I should not. But at the same time, it's an important task for the NRK to show that they're funded in this way, that they're going to be an alternative to many of the others, that just build on the commercial.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e546	I thank you for your answer. It is clear that we are not going to be a general meeting here, nor are we going to have a budgetary procedure on such a question. But the overall view is that now the NRK – and, to the extent, TV 2 – is facing a technological quantum leap that is so extensive that large investments will be required. This NRK has to take, of course. But in addition to all the other NRKs running, the NRK is in many ways also the nation's archives, linked to the fact that they have many episodes, many programs and a lot of what is the identity of the nation, on sound and image. This needs to be digitised and safeguarded for future generations. Part of this is not part of the programme activity. When you then get the framework conditions that require this to be done through normal operation, it is clear that it can be difficult to experience. I have a great deal of understanding for that. The point is, how do you manage to ensure that these great technological quantum leaps, the preservation of what is the nation's memory, are adapted to the economy you have? It is, of course, my great concern, in addition to the fact that the presence of the NRK throughout the country must be maintained through its district office network, which commercial people, of course, do not have to the same extent. This is a major media policy challenge, on which I believe the Minister of Culture and the SV will agree. But right now, unfortunately, competition is in the favor of the commercial, and not in the favor of the non-commercial, which is close to our heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e555	I am not entirely in agreement with the description that competition is in the disfavor of the NRK and in favour of the non-commercial ones, because we have a framework for the NRK that I think is good. We have not chosen to increase broadcasting charges this time. I'm thinking here of a little longer term compared to the NRK. The NRK had a great desire, which was presented to me when I was Minister of Culture, namely to get into the VAT system. They have now also received the VAT rate they have requested, because they need to have a more liberal framework and greater freedom in relation to how they produce their programmes. They've got that. So we know that the Storting has also agreed that when it comes to digitization and ground-tightness, it's something that's going to happen without government funds, but it's going to happen on a commercial basis. There's the Storting behind it. It's not until the next year that the big counting will come up with exactly that expansion, it's going to be in the years to come. I believe, however, that the NRK needs better financial frameworks in the years to come, not just until next year, because until next year they can get full coverage of their entry into the VAT system. And then we have to look at what the need is for the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e562	There will be follow-up questions – Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e565	Minister of Culture Svarstad Haugland's budget means that for the first time since the war the NRK has not been compensated for increased costs. It says in the budget that it implies a continuation of the NRK's financial framework conditions at today's level, but according to the calculations, NRK will be 100 million. I don't think so. So my first question is whether the Minister of Culture has not, through his budget, misinformed the Stortinget regarding the NRK's framework conditions. In addition, the NRK is within a five-year conversion process, and this involves having predictable frameworks. And my second question is, isn't it a little unprofessional ownership to change the framework conditions of an enterprise that is in that kind of conversion, and that makes a huge effort to rationalize its operations and get the most program out of the money? The NRK may be the most important medium we have to cover the whole of Norway, to ensure a good rural profile and to provide the public broadcasting service. My third question is whether the Minister of Culture does not think it is important to ensure that the NRC has proper financial framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e574	Well, I think it's important. There are many people who have pointed to the last war today, both once and twice, and it may well be the case. But the point is that we've put in other leads for the NRK that make them according to themselves get more space in relation to the program production, and that it will also be good for the economics. One of the reasons we haven't done anything about the broadcasting fee this time is because the NRK and the broadcasting fee are still under pressure because there's a part that doesn't get NRK2. I think when we get the digitization in place, the complaints come from all those who don't get NRK2 – which means we have a pressure on NRK – to fall away, and then it may be more natural to raise the broadcasting fee, so that NRK can still be the good non-commercial channel in Norway. I'm going to fight for him to still be, and I also hope that will be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e582	Magnar Lund Bergo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e585	The council and I have had some rounds before about the district offices in the NRK. It's part of the package, and it's also part of the transition that's been unpopular in the districts. As I have understood the Council of State, the real desire of the Council of State has been like the SVS, to maintain district offices with its own administration in all the counties. Therefore, I was a little surprised when I learned that the savings made in connection with the restructuring carried out in the NRK meant NOK 7 per person. licence. Could the Council of State plan to take an initiative so that the Storting could get the opportunity to re-establish offices in all the counties for a ten more licensed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e592	This is a round that we've had many times, and here also comes the balance between being a general assembly in the NRC and giving the government of the NRK freedom in relation to how they organize their work. I'm going to follow closely what's happening in the NRK in relation to the district offices. I have also taken some steps to keep some district offices at bay, which I am very pleased with. When it comes to the cooperation that has taken place in some countries, we're going to follow closely what the programme provides listeners and viewers. It is the ultimate programme offering of listeners and viewers that is important. This has not worked long enough to draw any conclusion that it has become worse. Perhaps it has even improved in some states – what do I know about it? But at least we don't have enough knowledge yet to draw a conclusion. I look at the representative that he thinks it has to get worse, but that doesn't mean I need to be the result. It is clear that when they combine part of the administration, they should still create programs, and that part has been strengthened. As I said, we're going to follow this closely, and at least I'm not going to tell the Storting that they're going to go in to be district offices in all the counties, and that they're going to order the NRK to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e601	The time for the oral question procedure is running out, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e606	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. Question 8, from the representative of Mr Haga to the Minister for Labour and Administration, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture who directs him. Question 15, from the representative of Ingrid I. Opedal to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs. The question will be raised by the representative Karin Andersen. Question 17, from the representative Signe Øye to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs. Questions 16 and 18, from the representatives of Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt and Morten Højlund respectively to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, must be postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e626	This question, from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e629	I have the following questions for the Prime Minister: ‘An asylum seeker from Moldova was expelled from Norway on 15 November 2002 after being convicted in criminal proceedings. He has a wife and children in Hammerfest. After the expulsion, the family has not heard from him. They fear that he is killed after the expulsion took place. Is the Prime Minister satisfied with an asylum policy where the Norwegian authorities do not know whether an asylum seeker has been removed from Norway immediately after his expulsion, or will he now take the initiative to clarify what may have occurred to the asylum seeker?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e643	The question has been asked to the Prime Minister, but since the question concerns the foreign field, I give the answer. The Foreign Affairs Act opens the door to expel foreigners who have committed criminal offences. It is also my opinion that the Storting has been concerned that we should, and actually also tightened up in this area. This is not part of Norwegian asylum policy, but concerns which foreigners are to be protected from persecution in Norway. Let me first state the fact that no asylum seekers are expelled from Norway. Where an alien residing in Norway as an asylum seeker is deemed to have been expelled, the application for asylum shall always be decided before a decision on expulsion is taken. Once the application for asylum has been decided, the foreigner is no longer to be regarded as an asylum seeker. Similarly, where a foreigner seeks asylum following the adoption of an expulsion decision. Expulsions are not initiated until it is clear whether the foreigner is a refugee or for other reasons cannot be returned to his country of origin. Before taking a decision to expel a non-resident, he shall be notified in advance that the administration is considering deporting him and the background to that decision. The foreigner is given the opportunity to respond and the Foreign Affairs Directorate then takes a decision on the expulsion at first instance. It follows from the Foreign Affairs Act that it is always to be assessed whether a foreigner is protected from persecution before decisions requiring the foreigner to leave the State are taken. This means that the administration always assesses whether the expelled person is likely to be at risk of persecution or other inhumane treatment in the home Member State. In this case, the foreigner is not expelled from Norway. In this case, the non-resident administration has assessed it in such a way that the non-resident expelled does not have a right to protection in Norway. He was deported to his home country for being convicted of criminal offences. It is not a practice for Norway to follow up on expelled foreigners after returning to their country of origin. I would like to remind you that we are sending back almost 10,000 people, of which approximately 1000 have been expelled on the basis of criminal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e658	I have raised two previous questions in the same matter. There have been written questions, first to the Minister of State in May, and then to the Prime Minister in June. I will briefly quote from the letters, which are similar from both, where it says: ‘When the foreign authorities have taken a decision requiring the foreigner to leave the country, there is already a thorough assessment that he/she will not be exposed to anything that could provide a protection basis in Norway. Accordingly, the alienation authorities do not carry out any further checks on their situation after returning.’» Thiscancellation language boils down to, if you analyse what it actually says, that because the Norwegian authorities have assessed that there is no risk, there is no risk. This despite having to do with a specific case where no one has heard from the person immediately after expulsion from Norway. Will the Council of State be aware of a refugee and asylum policy that does not leave this kind of message in the seas, as to the fact that people have actually disappeared immediately after they have been expelled?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e670	Unfortunately, the Foreign Administration does not have the opportunity to follow up expulsions that we make every year, both the repatriation of refugees and the expulsion and expulsion of criminals, in the number we per. the current date. It won't be possible to add to a practice where we're going to make sure what happens when people get back. Analysis of individual groups has been carried out in different cases when it has been claimed, inter alia: have been subjected to investigation and detention upon repatriation. They have then checked the matter. We cannot carry out as a normal procedure that we will continuously have a follow-up service for people who have violated Norwegian law and have been sent by this country. There may be many reasons why you do not contact your family even after you have been sent home. I see that there may be a basis for us to go into individual cases and ask the EEAS to check whether what is the background to maintaining a practice in some areas is going to go into the seams, and so that is done on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e679	No one is asking the State Council to check every case in relation to expulsion or when you have been sent out of the country. However, in cases where the person cannot be recovered afterwards, and where neither the family in Moldova nor Norway is aware of the fate of the person concerned, the Norwegian authorities must have a responsibility to have the matter investigated in more detail. So I've asked two questions about this before. I record that the Council of State has still not intended to take any initiative to find out. The spouse now lives in Hammerfest, has a five-year-old child and is himself in danger of being expelled to a country where you do not know how the spouse was. Does the Council of State not see that she has a responsibility to have this matter investigated in more detail?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e684	No, I believe that we do not have a responsibility for getting the matter checked in more detail. I would like to recommend that this should be the case, among other things. use those organisations that have the opportunity to look for and find people in other countries but who will never do so on behalf of a country if they ask for it. You can, for example: from the family side, contact the Red Cross with questions as to whether they can help to find out more. If we get any more information, I will of course see if we will go further into contact with the country's authorities. But we always have to remember that we are dependent on going through the national authorities to hear more about individual matters, and do it through the official channels.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e697	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘With effect from the 2001 income year, changes were made to the rules on residence for tax purposes and to the regulations on population registration. These changes in rules would make it easier for lone commuters to be registered in their municipality of residence. Now it turns out that lone commuters who rent housing in the parent residence of the municipality of residence do not get it defined as an independent dwelling. This seems unreasonable, and the regulations are also interpreted differently in the tax rate. Will the Council of State take the initiative to correct the regulation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e706	Lone commuting between parental and other independent dwellings is considered to be resident in the other dwelling as from the year of age of 22. This is provided for in the regulation on population registration. It also follows from the regulation that a person with at least three years' residence in a municipality who starts to commute to a dwelling in another municipality may, under certain conditions, continue to be considered resident in the first municipality. One of these conditions is that the dwelling area he has in the first municipality is at least twice as large as his dwelling area in the second municipality. The location of a person in compliance with these rules depends on a specific case-by-case assessment. This assessment is carried out by the local public authorities. For the purpose of the assessment, the Tax Directorate has provided some guidance in the Equation ABC. Parent homes as such could never be regarded as self-catering in relation to these rules if one is over 21 years old and has another independent dwelling. Persons over the age of 21 must thus ensure that any commuter dwelling qualifies only as an involuntary dwelling. There is nothing formal in the way of renting the dwelling of the parents in their housing and getting it recognised as an independent dwelling according to the rules. However, the assumption is that the requirements of the regulations for adequate entitlements and areas are met, that the dwelling has been occupied for three years before the commuting takes place, and that real rentals are paid for the dwelling. The requirement of own right of disposal here will have the consequence that the lessor, i.e. the parents, will have to give up his legal right of disposal for the rented part. Such rental contracts cannot be excluded, but I do get to add that it is hardly common in family relationships. If two self-contained dwellings are disposed of under the rules, a dwelling rented out by the parents under normal rental conditions could go in front of another dwelling if it is twice the size of the other dwelling. I am not looking for any need to adopt any changes to the regulatory system in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e721	I thank you for your answer. As the Minister of Finance is concerned, the core of this issue is the right to rent in the parent home. The finance minister probably also knows the history of single commuters who were largely forced to move as soon as they had a cooking plate on their trays. There were people who went home every weekend, who said they were related to the municipality of their homes, but who had to commute because of their work. Then there was a clean-up in 2000, with effect from 2001. The specific matter which is the basis for my question is in question in so far as two aspects are involved. The only thing that I think is untimely is that when he meets almost all of the requirements of the regulation to which the Minister of Finance referred here is being moved because the parking space he rents in the municipality of his home is a parking space in the home of his parents. The second is that the different county tax offices here have a different interpretation. The latter had progressed in relation to the County Tax Manager of Uppland, had the rules been clarified and then adjusted, but then the County Tax Manager of the South Trøndelag draws the opposite conclusion. In other words, there is a need for cleaning up in relation to county tax offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e730	Two additional questions are actually raised here. One is: Are the rules clear enough? And the other thing is, are they practiced equally? The first question I've essentially answered. I think the rules are very clear. I also think that the equation ABC on page 222 and on page 225 give quite simple and understandable instructions. One actually doesn't have to go to any equational operator even; anyone can read about this. So it doesn't stop renting the boys room, to say it like this. There must be an independent rental relationship, and the description of this is given in my first answer. The second question is whether the rules are interpreted differently. I can't rule that out. That's why there's also a lot of appeals, in the form of an equation, to the subject of the equation, and if the last decision was to sharpen the first one, so go into the disfavor of taxpayers, then there's also a third appeal, to the question of state equality. So the legal certainty here would be reasonably well taken care of if you use this opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e739	Thank you for that. I can't say anything but that here I'm somewhat disagreed with the Minister of Finance, because the specific matter just reveals it. So there's one of the conditions here for housing when it's the size of the dwelling in the municipality of residence, and there's one at work. The refusal by the County Tax Manager of the South Trøndelag is a reason why a tenant lives in the parent home, because all the other requirements of the regulation are met. There's a need to clean up. The fact that a tenant lives in the parent home should not in any way exclude the possibility of his being defined as a self-contained resident in the home municipality. You can't initially view these commuters as potential tax collectors. There are quite other groups in society that one in which case has to go free. I saw a statistics from Norway Bank now, where they were concerned that there was a tax evasion of 24 billion dollars in this community, but I don't think this group contributed to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e746	I like the nice description of commuters. I don't think that's where we find the big tax evasion either. However, I cannot comment on a topical matter that the questioner has not raised, so the claim that all claims have been met will be borne by the questioner's own account. Let me just remind you of what I said at the end of my first answer, that the requirement of own right of disposal will have the consequence here that parents will have to give up their right of disposal for the leased area. That's a pretty strict requirement. That's the general statement I can give.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e756	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘On 12 July 2003, a man from Skåk was killed during a visit to Praha. A man was arrested for the murder, but was later released, when testimonies appointed another perpetrator. As far as the killer's family is aware, the alleged perpetrator is not arrested. It is also unclear where the investigation is. This is an extra burden on the family and raises questions about the legal security of the Nordics abroad. What are the Norwegian authorities doing to advance the clarification of this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e765	The embassy in Praha was immediately involved in this tragic case. In the days following the detection, the embassy had direct contact with the family and assisted it in contact with the insurance company and hospital. At the request of the family, the embassy also kept a person, designated by the family, informed of the further development of the matter. The Norwegian ambassador in Praha has had a total of three meetings with the Vice President of the Czech police in this matter. In addition, the embassy has had regular contact with the relevant police district and Interpol office. The embassy was informed in August that the suspected perpetrator had been released because the investigation had shown that it was not he, but a Serbian friend of his, who had carried out the action. Since then, the Czech authorities have been working to obtain the necessary information and a picture of the new suspect from the Belgrade authorities. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been informed that this will now be on its way to Prague. Provided the witnesses confirm again that they believe the suspect is the perpetrator, the Czech police have said that they will take the necessary steps to send out the international alert. The Czech authorities have to resolve this matter. However, the Norwegian authorities represented at our embassy in Praha will continue to follow up the matter with the Czech authorities in an appropriate manner. In addition, I have contacted my Czech colleague, Minister of the Interior Stanislav Gross. I would say that losing a child is the worst thing that can happen to us as parents. In the extreme situation, you're vulnerable. That is why we have also started to look at the follow-up of relatives in general. So we've started on something that I think is very important, and that I want to work on, and that is in addition to the question that the representative raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e778	I would like to thank you for your answer, especially the last time you have seen a work going on for a better follow-up of the relatives. What I'm wondering about this is the partly contradictory and confusing information that comes from the Nordic liaison officer in Praha, from Kripos and from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. On 4 September, press officials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the newspaper Gudbrandsdøln Dagningen say that the Czech police have issued arrest orders on the suspected perpetrator, and that Interpol is connected so that he can be apprehended if he appears in a country other than Serbia. There is a promise to strengthen and prioritize research. On 10 September, the chief of the Kripos said that Interpol was hunting with the Serbian police on the murder-proofed Serb. The Chief Kripos said that he had great faith that the suspect would be apprehended. Then it turns out on November 1st, according to information from the ambassador and the Nordic police officer, that the suspect is not yet wanted through Interpol. The family that is in Skåk knows little or nothing about what may have happened in the cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e785	I stick to the information I've collected. It is clear from the answer I have given, that the embassy has worked regularly on this matter, and that they should also have had contact with the family. I have to stick to that. Because I think such things as this, without trying to talk about it as anything in general, are always difficult, I have also taken some special steps to write to my colleague. I don't usually do that. I have only done so on two other occasions in the past, and not on a matter like this. But as I met Minister of the Interior Stanislav Gross in April, and we talked about police cooperation, I thought I should do it. So the sum of the matter, the facts in the matter as I knew them, have caused me to send such a letter. That means that I put considerable pressure on the matter, and that I am of course concerned that you will get it resolved as soon as possible. I have to stick to the knowledge that I have received, but I get to check the information that the representative now gives me.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e794	I thank you for the answer, and I just want to thank the Minister of Justice for making contact with his Czech colleague to exert pressure on this matter. One of the main reasons why I raised the question was simply to make a little progress in investigating this specific matter. But this also raises a more fundamental question of legal certainty and the follow-up of relatives. I can show that the newspaper Gudbrandsdøren Dagningen a few days ago had a notice of a murder on a 35-year-old from Dombås that happened at Gran Canaria five years ago. A British citizen was arrested and later accused of the killing, but so far it has not been legal or possible. So here it's revealed a inertia in the Spanish judiciary that's to great despair, not least for the family that's left. I believe it is important that the survivors be given good legal assistance when it concerns matters abroad, assistance for information and, where appropriate, presence under legal proceedings. Does the Minister of Justice think that the legal aid system works well enough, or is it necessary to take action when it concerns this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e803	It's going to be too far to go into legal aid in general here. I think we have a system to cover, but here was the question: how do you get information, and how do you get it? That's an important question. My general impression, without being able to address the matter that the representative Rudihagen now raised, is that the Norwegian foreign authorities are engaged. I know it from a completely different field than what is today’s theme – child abduction matters. You put a lot of work into it. You have contact with the authorities in the country. Even I am also trying to get a basis by traveling to get some insight into how to work in practice. So the representative has to see it as an expression of my position that I have said two things here in addition to the practical information. I have written to the Czech Minister of the Interior Stanislav Gross, and I am dedicated to seeing how the judicial authorities in general, including the police, can get better at meeting relatives. I think the police are very busy themselves, and there is a field where we can agree without further delay that we should do our utmost to be good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e815	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘According to the Swedish Financial Federation, five bankers have received death threats in the last year as a result of complying with their statutory obligation to report suspicions of money laundering from criminal offences. The danger of complying with the reporting obligation is not only serious for the people involved but also for the fight against money laundering. What will the Council of State do to ensure greater security for bankers and other reporting agents in such situations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e824	First of all, the Financial Services Act, which today provides for anti-money laundering measures and the new Act on anti-money laundering of proceeds from criminal offences, etc., is managed by the Ministry of Finance. The legislation imposes an obligation to investigate and report to a number of establishments and legal persons. The reporting agent shall carry out investigations to confirm or disclaim a suspicion that a transaction may be linked to a criminal offence — money laundering. If the investigations do not call the suspicion into question, the reporting agent shall, on his own initiative, communicate the details of the transaction in question and of the suspected circumstances to the Økokrim Money Laundering Unit. Neither customers nor third parties shall be informed that information has been sent to Ecocrim. It is decided by regulation that reporting institutions should establish sound control and communication procedures. Internal reporting procedures shall be established whereby the official or woman suspected of transactions relating to the benefits of a criminal offence is required to report to his superiors. The institution shall designate a person at management level as a money laundering officer. In order to prevent the identification of the staff involved, routines have been in place, among others. by routinely exposing or omitting the names of staff in connection with reporting to Ecocrim. In connection with the Ecocrim course, the issue of the anonymisation of staff in the institutions has been addressed to the police districts of the country for the investigation of money laundering messages, precisely in order to ensure their security. The police have a general responsibility for protection of vulnerable persons. If a reportable person is exposed to threats, despite the institution's taking action to protect his identity, the police will assess the necessary safeguards. If a reporting agent were to be called as a witness to a subsequent criminal case, the legislation on protection measures against witnesses could apply. Threats to employees carrying out statutory tasks are very serious. It is very important that employees of institutions that have a reporting obligation on suspicious transactions can carry out their work without having to be afraid of being exposed to threats. Last year, Ecocrim sought to identify the scale by conducting a survey of the largest banks and financial institutions in Oslo. Within the EU, too, these issues are addressed, and the Commission has carried out a survey of Member States, as well as Norway and Iceland, to identify the extent and assess whether action can be taken and, where appropriate, what action it might take.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e839	I thank you for your answer. Now it is right, as the Minister of Justice says, that there are relatively clear provisions in relation to protection, but unfortunately it is also true that these provisions are not sufficient to avoid the kind of threats we have seen against several bankers in the last year. What has emerged in connection with some of these cases is that there is a problem in relation to the transmission of money laundering messages from Ecocrim to the local police, because, for example, the Finanzbundet. believes that the local police are not sufficiently able to hide from suspects where the information comes from. It is true that although these messages are anonymised, there will be relatively few people, for example: in a bank, the suspect has been in contact with, and it is clear that it is difficult to hide this in practice. Is there anything the Minister of Justice might think of doing in relation to local police routines that could counteract this kind of issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e850	When the representative asks questions about the procedures are good enough overall within the police, there is a question that I think justifies that I should assess it. I've assumed they should be. I've assumed that it should be a professionalism. But the fact that there are events that the representative addresses is in itself reason to look at it. I have recently been to Ecokrim, where I have just concentrated on not only Ecokrim's own competence, but also the competence of Ecokrim to provide guidance and guidance to local police districts. The general thing about the question, namely to make sure that witnesses/informants have security, I am generally concerned about, and I will therefore also look at it for that reason. I have been very committed to developing a series of protective measures, which I outlined in the first answer, and of course I am concerned about these. Ultimately, we also have quite strict legal rules. But it's clear that with this crime we're literally going into the closed rooms. And it's probably true, as the representative says, that you can easily guess who an informant can be, even if he's anonymous. We have to take that seriously. We must protect those who are witnesses on behalf of society. I call them witnesses, not whistleblowers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e861	I thank you for your answer. I think it is positive that the Minister of Justice shows such clear willingness to address this. I would like to stress that it is important to look at this relatively quickly, as the Whitewashing Act and the changes that have now been made to it will enter into force on 1 January, and then there will be far larger groups that are subject to reporting obligations than those that are today. This may also mean that the scale of the problem will increase. I believe, as I said, that action in relation to the routines of the local police is important, and also that we are following up on the work that is now being done in the European Union from the Norwegian side. In connection with the treatment of the Laundering Act, I think we can all agree that we did not find adequate solutions to the issue of security. I also believe that both we who were involved in the adoption of the law and the employees in the industries will appreciate whether the Minister of Justice is taking initiatives in this area relatively quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e872	In order to prevent any grey areas, both the Minister of Finance and I have recently been to Ecokrim to look at this problem area, because here we have a cooperation zone. The Minister of Finance is working on the law and important aspects of its follow-up; I am working on other aspects of it, as the representative deals with me. I'm very concerned about it. And, as I said, Ecokrim is also concerned about assisting the police locally, so that they can build skills. We will look at this as the representative addresses, also in the context of an action plan that has now been entrusted to the Eva Joly project against money laundering and corruption, whether we can be even better at securing witnesses. The witnesses are absolutely crucial. At the end of this article, I would like to say one thing: I am responding to people in the financial community being called 'whistleblowers', or in good Norwegian'sladrank' when they say from. They are citizens, and they should never be referred to as anything other than citizens. It's an expression of a rather distorted sense of society when those who say something wrong are called slavanks or "whistleblowers" instead of witnesses. They are witnesses, and shall be honored and honored as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e885	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The PCF has contributed to good medical coverage throughout the country. However, if the prescriber is out of work for shorter or longer periods, all patients on the physician’s list shall be guaranteed an offer from another doctor. Many inquiries show that this does not work well enough, or may be directly sabotaged, contrary to Storting's assumptions. What will the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e894	Aspects relating to the absence of firmness of decision-makers are governed by a central framework agreement between the Medical Association and the Municipal Councils. Under this framework agreement, the decision-making body shall participate in collegiate arrangements to cover the ordinary absence of other permanent residents in the municipality. The municipality, on its part, has an obligation to obtain temporary workers in the event of a longer absence or other necessary measures to remedy any medical shortage. The individual lease is the main management tool of the municipality in relation to the shareholders. The model agreement for the individual agreement on general practice in the fixed medical scheme resulting from the framework agreement recommends that the local authority in the individual agreement formalises responsibilities in the event of absence by describing how the peer-to-peer coverage is intended and by naming the doctor’s permanent agency. According to the framework agreement between the Medical Association and the KS, it is also assumed that issues of absenteeism and temporary work arrangements will be discussed in the local cooperation committee to be established between the municipality and the local authorities. I am aware that there have been some start-up problems in this area. Based on the reports I have received from the supervisory authority about the situation in the last year, the impression is that this now works well in most places. In a report to the Ministry of Health in September this year, the State Health Authority has reported that most of the decision-makers appear to be in charge of their list. Health surveillance in Hordaland, Finnmark and Troms has carried out systematic surveys of different types of availability to decision-makers. The Hordaland report draws attention to the fact that some doctors have not fulfilled their responsibility for absenteeism as they should, among other things. in the event of holiday settlement. In Finnmark and Troms, access to the doctor was satisfactory when needed for an hour on the same day or during the next few days, although the resident did not necessarily get an hour on his own. It is the municipality as a party to the contract that must follow the decision to comply with its part of the contract. Inhabitants or others who experience problems are assumed to contact the municipality. The Ministry follows up the municipalities through the counties and/or health surveillance in the counties. Health surveillance in the counties has already been asked to follow up on the shortcomings identified by these supervisory reports. The permanent scheme is subject to a comprehensive research-based evaluation to be carried out over five years. The Ministry is now working on a status report on experience with the scheme after two years of operation. For the purposes of this report, the Ministry has received input from, inter alia: KS, the Medical Association and the former experimental municipalities. I will review the experience acquired now and assess which conditions should be followed up more closely and, where appropriate, adjusted, for example. by amending the regulation or by means of a central works of agreement, in parallel with the ongoing evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e909	It is the fact that the fixed-line contract itself is a relatively good agreement, also for the doctors, and one must, of course, demand that you have a good pay, one should also do a good job. I am pleased to hear what the Minister for Health says about the things that are going on both in terms of monitoring and the structures that are related to the local cooperation body. So far I think it sounds satisfactory. What concerns me when I have asked this question is that I have received many enquiries from individuals that suggest that probably a lot of people do not experience the service that the fixed medical device should provide that they should have in the absence of the doctor. I also remember what the Social Committee and the Stortinget said when we dealt with the law. In addition to what I have already asked, the question of whether the Minister of Health believes that the individual permanent staff is properly obliged in their employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e920	I believe that the obligations for the municipality as a contracting party and the obligations for the firm are well anchored in both the central and individual contract department. The point must be that the supervisory authorities follow up where they find deviations and that, on the basis of the systematic evaluation currently taking place, we assess the need for adjustments, for example: in the regulatory system. I haven't seen it that far. But I've taken this up with the Medical Association's management, and I want to keep up with developments in the future to see if the evaluation work suggests this type of initiative. If it does, they'll be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e925	There is a two-part track here, as the Minister of Health also explains. One is the obligation of municipalities to do the job they are required to do under the law. The second is the responsibility of the individual supervisor to follow up their patients. What I am uncertain about, and which perhaps the Minister of Health did not touch so much in his answer, is whether one has identified how the individual municipality has followed up its obligations in taking responsibility for the whole of the scheme, and especially what is associated with the use of temporary workers in case of longer absences. In case of short absence, it is obvious that the decision maker is responsible, and I believe that one should underline very strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e932	I have been informed that the health inspection in the counties has already been asked to follow up on the lack of information revealed in the inspection reports. Where these conditions are due to poor follow-up from the municipality according to the obligations of the municipality, it is clear that the municipality is the addressee of the follow-up work. At the same time, it is important that the supervisory authority also follow up the decision-makers where a lack of follow-up may be due to a lack of follow-up to the obligations of the decision-making body. But what I think is important is that, at the overall level, the evaluation material it is now working on is provided, and that a discussion with the parties and on the basis of this material clarifyes whether there is a need for general changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e941	I have the following questions for the Minister of Education and Research: ‘The Central Association of the Communities reports that many counties report a significant increase in the proportion of adults who want to offer higher education and that the queue of adults is increasing. In some municipalities, the resource situation is such that the supply of adults needs to be greatly reduced. What will the Council of State do to ensure the rights of adults to secondary education?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e950	Statistics from the Statistical Centre show that the number of adults taking secondary education in government terms has stabilised after a decline in recent years. The estimates of the number of people lacking complete secondary education and the number of queues are very uncertain. In order to provide a better basis for assessing the situation, the Ministry, under the auspices of VOX, has launched a survey of the number of adults who use the training rights under the Training Act and how county municipalities handle the responsibility for caring for adults’ rights. The results will be available in spring 2004. The preliminary results suggest that county councils have very different interpretations of how the right to training for adults is to be practised and that there is a great difference between how well adults know that they are entitled to training. Adults are entitled to secondary education for persons born before 1978. Some of the reasons why adults are in line to take up secondary education may be that an increasing number without justice are now seeking such training. Among other things, we know that some young people don't start in high school, and that someone ends before they finish. In addition, the number of immigrants born after 1978 is increasing, but who have come to the country so that they cannot avail themselves of the right to youth. I would also like to point out that more than 3,000 students at universities and colleges have been admitted on the basis of real-life skills. This means that many do not have to go on the path of general higher education study competence in order to take on higher education. In the Quality Committee’s investigation, it is proposed that adult rights be complemented by a new funding model to motivate actors to provide adult training. In view of this, the Ministry has started work on assessing alternative financial instruments to improve adult provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e961	I thank the Council of State for the answer. My concern by asking questions today was to put continuing education and adult education on the agenda, in particular, to follow-up rights. It is important for individuals, but it is also important for society, especially in a situation of high unemployment, to provide adult labour market competences. The government also describes in its own budget that a large number of the unemployed have not completed secondary education. We get reports of waiting lists and cows – long queues. This means both that there will be a long waiting time with uncertainty and that many people simply abandon the plan of perhaps taking secondary education. The answer that the media at least have received from a review of the situation in the counties is that they lack money. A simple answer. Then the question is, should we sit longer and wait before we should possibly do something?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e970	I agree with the representative Bjørnstad on the importance of this and many other rights and systems that we have put in place in Norway to realise the vision of lifelong learning. I also agree with the representative, Mr Bjørnstad, that when there is unemployment, such schemes will usually be more important. We have, as I said in my answer, not a full overview today of what the situation is. Preliminary results from the survey project I mentioned show that in some states about 60 pst. of adults with good or some knowledge of the law, while elsewhere have only approx. 30 pst. of the adult good or any knowledge of the right. This suggests that there is considerable variation and that this is also related to the information activities of the states. I also think we have to admit that we have bigger non-response problems in ordinary secondary education than we thought. In fact, there is an astonishingly low proportion of students who started in 1996 who completed in a normal time. Now we have numbers for that. That means that others can report. Furthermore, the Quality Committee has proposed changes to the system itself here, with the possibility of granting the right to secondary education to adults over a certain age. All of this is now being evaluated, and we'll be back in the spring of 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e981	I again thank the Council of State for the answer, and I think it is positive that one will provide more knowledge and also facilitate an increase in adult information about their rights. But at the same time, I believe there are clear indications that there are long waiting lists for adults. I have seen that Secretary of State Bergesen wishes to welcome engagement when someone criticizes the authorities. And he's said that someone can't accept that people are in line. Are the Councils of State of the same opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e986	It's a right, and you have that right. And ideally, you shouldn't be in line. But we don't do everything we can to meet everyone's wishes at all times when it comes to higher education, not even for ordinary students. But I agree with the representative, Bjørnstad, that we should go into this, including the economics, which I might not really answer instead. I can tell you that in the ordinary consultation meeting with the KS, it was discussed how this right is practised, and how the financing of it is, whether it is appropriate. Given that it was discussed there, I have notified the KS that I will take the initiative for a separate meeting to discuss the practice of the right of adults, and also the future financing of this right.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e995	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘According to the Fischlerbladt, plans have been discussed to close the Henningswärbox, which is widely used by coastal fishermen, for all fisheries. This proposal will not only affect coastal fishermen, but will also entail new estimates of the overall level of fisheries. How does the Council of State view the proposal to close the Henningswär box for fishing, and will any such closure be submitted to Stortinget as a matter before it is implemented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1004	The recommendation of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea is a zero take-off by Norwegian Coastal cod in 2004. At that time, it will be a challenge for the administration that cod and Norwegian coastal cod stand side by side on the same fishing grounds, making it difficult to avoid catching coastal cod. Another challenge is to bring about regulation that reduces coastal cod catch but at the same time makes it possible to maintain coastal settlements, which depend on coastal cod fishing. This indicates the need for measures for coastal cod where quota reduction alone is not enough, but also needs to be implemented which, either individually or in combination, involve tooling, area and time constraints. But we have to recognise that we cannot take measures that work to the benefit of the coastal cod, without having consequences for anyone. A working group has therefore been set up which has looked at possible coastal cod protection measures, recognising that researchers recommend a zero take-off. The working group shall have, inter alia: assessed the closure of the so-called Henningswärbox for all fish. The Ministry of Fisheries, in the light of the recommendations of the Working Party and previous work, has held a hearing on the matter until 24 October. So far, we have received more than 30 statements, which are under close review in the ministry. We note that there are strong points of view regarding the closure of the Henningswärbox, as recommended by this sample, and as we have now had out at the hearing. Several hearing bodies, including Vågan Producer Association, Vågan Municipality, Nordland County Council and Lofot Council, have stated that they strongly oppose the closure of the so-called Henningswärbox. Coastal cod will also be a topic during the meetings of the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission, which are now held in St. Petersburg, and the matter will then also be discussed in the Board of Regulators. This is a regulatory matter of a nature that is not presented to Stortinget. The Ministry of Fisheries's aim is to arrive at a regulation that ensures both the presence of the coastal cod in the future and the coastal fisherman, which in turn provides a basis for coastal settlement and activity. Then it is that after we have now received all the hearing replies and recorded from the Commission meeting in St. Petersburg and then the Board of Regulators assessments, I will lay down the necessary regulations before the end of the year. However, before examining and evaluating all the opinions received at the hearing, both related to the Henningswär box and to other measures, I will neither comment on the individual proposals nor on the answers to the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1032	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I note that there will be no case for closure of the Henningswär box. It's a fact that the screams come to Lofoten to spawn, not the coastal cod. It is a fact that the Russians want us to peace the Lofoten so that the screams will spawn in peace. It's nothing new. The coastal cod doesn't bludgeon with the scream. I find it strange that the Minister of Fisheries is drawing the coastal cod as an element of the spawning process in Lofoten when we can read in the newspapers that it was perhaps wrong that the stock was so low. Now the researchers in Tromsø have come to the conclusion that we may have more coastal cod than they thought. It is also part of what the Minister for Fisheries has to assess. Why does the coastal cod pull into the closure of the HenningswærkBox?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1039	This government attaches great importance to the sustainable management of fish resources. When the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea makes a recommendation on zero coast cod in 2004, I will not be responsible for not taking it seriously. That is why we set up a working group to look at the measures in question. They have delivered their recommendation, and I think it was reasonable that both fishermen and local authorities were given an opportunity to comment on it. As I have explained here, there have been clear messages, not least from the regional authorities in Lofoten and the Nordic countries, which strongly oppose the closure of the Henningswärbox. But we have also, as I said in my first answer, stressed that it is enough to combine a number of measures, whether in terms of tool limitations, territorial limits or time limits, which must be elements of the future management of coastal cod. We will come back to that when we have evaluated all the elements that I have explained. But I would recommend that you put more emphasis on what the researchers say than one-sided statements in the newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1046	Once again, I thank the Minister for Fisheries for the answer. I refer to what I said initially, that the Russians would like to see the Lofoten closed during the spawning period. Perhaps this is the case, as indicated, that the Ministry of Fisheries in Norway agrees more with Russia than with the Norwegian fishing population.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1051	As I said, we've been given a clear recommendation on zero withdrawals. If we were to follow that recommendation, it wouldn't be coastal cod fishing at all. I have explained that it will be very difficult to get it done. My ambition is that we should go through a difficult period of time based on the recommendations that come from the researchers, but we should get out of that period of reconstructed coastal cod stocks, and we need to provide a basis for fishermen to operate. But to imagine that we were going to manage and regulate a reduced withdrawal of fish without anyone noticing it? It's an art piece that at least this government can't do. So I have to say, we have not drawn any conclusions. We have the recommendations that have come from a working group out at the hearing. So we're going to evaluate the recordings. I note that someone who has views about the Henningswärbox recommends a different time period from what the working group does. Let us now assess all of this, including the recommendations of the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission and the Regulatory Council. It will then be dealt with in a factual and proper manner, not least by fishermen and the coastal population.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1063	This question, from the representative of Åslaug Haga to the Minister for Labour and Administration, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1066	My question was meant to be there and should have been answered by the Minister of Labour and Administration, but I understand that the Government believes that it should be answered by the Minister of Agriculture. The question is as follows: «At Plant Research in Ås is 85 pst. [[Shared]] of the renovation project carried out. Failure to implement the remainder involves increased costs, inefficient work, degradation of student/researcher service, reduced ability to conduct courses and unsustainable employment for employees. State buildings have offered to advance the work. The government is refusing. Project implementation, as this puts both the public and the politicians in a bad light. Why does the Council of State not choose to intervene?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1075	Let me first say that this was built by Plant Research under the Ministry of Agriculture, and any allocation must come from the Minister of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture. This renovation project of Planteforsk's construction in Ås, the so-called Common Building, is divided into two phases. The first phase includes laboratories, offices, meeting rooms, etc. The second phase mainly includes canteens and kitchens, libraries and administrative offices. The Ministry of Agriculture and Plant Research agreed on this division in order to adapt the project to the planned phase 1 cost framework. It was assumed that State Building had considered such a division into two separate phases as practicable. It was also provided that the implementation of phase 2 was dependent on the treatment and allocation of the Storting later. Phase 1 of the renovation project, which has a cost framework of 135 million. kr, was submitted and approved by the Stortinget in connection with the treatment of the State budget for 2002. This work will have been completed during the current year. Phase 2 of the project, which by Statsbyggen is calculated for approx. Seventeen million. kr, has not been submitted to the Stortinget since no coverage has been found for this work within the budgetary framework of the Ministry of Agriculture. The implementation of phase 2 cannot be initiated without the adoption of the budget by the Storting. The construction project cannot be resolved by means of a clean pre-shooting procedure in accordance with the provisions laid down. Of course, a postponement of phase 2 of the renovation project causes certain problems and some additional costs. However, the professional work in construction, including laboratory and teaching activities, will function satisfactorily once phase 1 has been completed. The postponement of phase 2 implies that the library must be based on a temporary solution. The solution is less accessible, but it is not possible to obtain what you need. The working environment problem with the postponement of phase 2 is that one will lack common canteens and the kitchen in the building. As an alternative to eating in offices and meeting rooms, staff will be able to use agricultural college canteens in the neighbourhood. Plant research is a research institution that is now undergoing reorganization with a view to coordinating a new research institution organised as a separate company. In St. prp. No 1 for 2003–2004, which is for treatment in the United Kingdom, no funds have been allocated for the rehabilitation of Joint Building Phase 2 for 2004. It has been stated in the proposal that funding and implementation will be assessed in the context of the organisation of Plant Research, NOSØK and Earth Research in an organisation. It is intended to merge them into one company by 1 January 2005 at the latest.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1094	I am pleased that the Minister of Agriculture acknowledges that Plant Research now has major problems, but I cannot understand this matter in any other way than that the Minister of Agriculture sees his cut to save 17-18 million. kr on behalf of the State if Plant Research, Soil Research and NOSØK become one organisation. It is my reading of the situation, and I believe that the savings performance of the Cooperation Government has gone well, taking into account that the situation at Plant Research is the Minister of Agriculture who recognizes itself, namely unsustainable working conditions for many and inefficient work. The Minister of Agriculture understands that the employees of Plant Research, students and researchers, who are dependent, among other things, on: the library packaged in the cellar considers this situation to be completely pointless?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1101	This is a pretty classic problem. There's no money left for the last construction phase. It is a political issue to give priority to the use of budgetary resources, and the Government has not found funding for 2004 to give priority to the 17 million. kr remaining to complete phase 2. I said in my answer that this does not cause major problems, and I do not accept the statement that I am saying that these are major problems. It's not. They are possible to solve during the time you had to wait until the next phase can be completed. Nor is it the Government's plan to save this amount because of the merger. It is such that by 1 January 2004, the aggregation provides for the possibility to finance this by means other than regular transfers from the budget. If this is so serious for the representative Haga, funds for this should have been proposed in the alternative budget of the Central Party. We have been able to find this money today, but we have not been able to find it. So it wasn't more important to prioritize it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1110	This money will be found within the business of our budget. I had initially asked for answers to this question from the Minister of Labour and Administration, because, in my opinion, this is about poor public planning, about poor use of public resources, and it is about a lack of respect for employees' employment. We have asked questions about this before, to the Minister of Labour and Administration, and have been met with an arrogant attitude in which one refuses to answer the question on the basis of the issues that we believe this is going on. But I have to ask: does the Minister for Agriculture understand that things like this put public and politicians in a bad light?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1117	It's like in practical life that one sometimes has to put a stone on a rock, and one has to get money to lay each stone. Here phase 1 was an isolated, feasible project that will soon be completed – it was the essential part of the cost. Then you can't carry out phase 2, and it was completely understood that the Stortinget made its decision on the appropriations for phase 1 – before one then gets money for phase 2. It is a traditional budgetary issue that concerns priority. The fine thing is now – and I think that this can be solved without having to go through the kind of priorities – that the reorganisation we are facing means that this can be financed in other ways, simply by the fact that the new merged entity that will come can finance this expansion through borrowing and through the balance they have in a new unit. I would like to stress that in the budget that Åslaug Haga has presented on behalf of the Central Party, this is not the project that she herself is giving very much priority, mentioned in one word, as far as we have been able to find.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1127	I have the following questions for the Minister of Social Affairs: ‘A lone mother in Oslo who has had to stop working and who has stopped her further education because of her. his 10-year-old cancer boy does not receive financial support for living in a difficult life situation. Will the Council of State intervene here and ensure that this family comes out financially, so that the mother can follow up her seriously ill child during a longer treatment process?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1136	There is no doubt that the representative Alvheim is right that this is a terribly difficult situation to get into for a single mother with a seriously ill child. Regulatory and administrative procedures shall not stand in the way of finding good and, in particular, practical solutions when life crises occur. Here, the agencies involved have a clear duty of guidance, and it has to coordinate and cooperate so that people don't have to have to fly from door to door without any authorities taking responsibility. We often see examples of a strong need for better coordination of the social security system, the Aetate and social services. Too many have to go in this shuttle traffic, from door to door, to get help to solve their problems. However, we cannot wait to solve concrete issues until the reform in question is in place. The Ministry has therefore already made contact with the local social security office and social services in the district. After I have experienced this, I will review the matter in the departments involved and see what opportunities are available. I am concerned that there will be such a dialogue between the actors involved. The Ministry will therefore follow up this case so that we can be sure that the responsible agencies will quickly get on the road and find a satisfactory solution in cooperation with the mother.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1145	I thank the Minister of Social Affairs for the answer, which I see very positively, and for the fact that the Department has already addressed this matter. Unfortunately, the life situation of this lonely mother is one of the many cases that are not captured by the welfare security network that we have and that is very good. But we will always find cases where the legislation is not entirely correct. Then I believe that in this case the respective bodies, especially the social office, should initially use their heads and hearts somewhat more than they have obviously done here, to help this woman who is undoubtedly in a very difficult situation. When you have a serious illness in your family, in relation to your own child [[President clubs]] Will the Minister of Social Affairs assure me here and now that the matter will be followed up, and that this will be put in place as quickly as possible? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1154	The President would point out that the timeframe has to be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1157	As I had in mind in my reply to the representative, we have already been in contact with the social security office in the department, just to make sure that an initiative will be taken for a meeting between the parties. It's scheduled for tomorrow already. Then I would like to say that in law and regulation it is very clear that these three relevant floors have a guidance responsibility. They also have a coordination responsibility. This means that if you see that something does not belong to what you are responsible for, you have an obligation to coordinate and refer and help to get to the right authority. I also think that this case is just supporting the need for coordination of these three stages, because situations may arise in the future as well. That work is well done by the Government. There's a lot going on on the test page in Kommune-Norway, so there's a lot of speed in that area. In this context, it is also necessary to have a review of the arrangements. This is a little ahead of time, but in this specific case I am sure that the parties involved are engaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1164	The coordination of these departments is the Minister of Social Affairs and I fully agree, and there are great expectations. But in my last comment, I would like to point out the inhumane requirement in this situation, that this lonely mother is told to get rid of the car and change the dwelling because it is too expensive. The car is very important in such a situation – you have to carry the boy back and forth, and you also have to have a social life – so you are sure to get out of the house. A little more humanity in bureaucracy, I expect in these kinds of cases, and the Minister of Social Affairs should report that on a given occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1171	I feel confident that the various actors will strive to find an appropriate solution. I think it's like this in all public administrations that you have to follow law and regulation and what's in it. So that's the wrap: it's always about good communication, a good conversation and a warm heart – and I think it's everybody's.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1179	I have the following questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: «The government does not follow up major decisions on gross pay in the offshore and 10 billion net pay in the offshore sectors. kr in equity injection to State power. This creates new uncertainty, resulting in flagging out and unemployed seafarers in the offshore fleet. Governments are losing development opportunities and jobs are becoming unsafe. Why will the Government not respect industrial policy decisions of major importance for shipping, the energy sector and many jobs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1188	The government presented proposals for the government budget on 8 October this year. In the budget, we have given a comprehensive consideration to issues relating to the arrangements for seafarers. We have proposed a total of 750 million. kr to the reimbursement scheme for the employment of seafarers. Since the establishment of this scheme, higher proposals for appropriations have not been submitted. In fact, comparing one with 2001 is more than double. In addition, this issue will be addressed in depth in the Government Communication to the European Council on Maritime Policy in spring 2004. In the draft budget that we have presented, it is right that the representative Hedstrom says that we have not followed up all the major decisions that have been taken in connection with this. What we put the crucial emphasis on in the preparation of proposals for a government budget was that the written agreement entered into by the government parties and the Progress Party in the Stortinget should be followed. That's what we've done. As regards the Stortinget's request decision concerning Statkraft, we have in St.prp. No 1 said that we will come back to it in the revised national budget. I've given a reason why we're postponing it then. It has to do with a number of key issues related to both strategies, capital structure, the problem of repatriation, competition in the power market – after all, it is a 50 pst player. by Norwegian hydropower – and in particular ESA’s position, so that we stick to EEA legislation. As regards the follow-up to the decision-making process, I would like to say in general that the starting point for budgetary action is, of course, that requests decisions from the Stortinge should be implemented. But it is also the case that the Government has an independent opportunity to invite to other decisions, other reasoned decisions. And then, of course, the Storting is free to take the decisions you want in the budgetary process. It is also the case that the government's premises for action in relation to the state budget are changing over time. It is influenced by many things, not least the Storting itself and what other decisions you make. But I have to say that with regard to the premises in relation to Statkraft, I think it's a little sought after when it's talking about putting jobs in Statekraft at risk – there's 800 employees there, and for that reason a grant of NOK 10 billion should be granted. First of all, I would like to say that there is no job in State power that is threatened if equity in six months is on today's level, or if it is raised by $10 billion. 10 billion is an amount for which a thorough explanation is required, at least for the Government to go well for it and drop it down in St. Prp. No 1st@item:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1203	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the case of seafarers, a net pay regime was adopted on 27 February of the current year for the offshore and upliftage section. It was introduced, but is now reduced to a second arrangement by the Government, a refund scheme of 19 p.m. Seafarers’ organisations have now had full-page ads where they signal the consequences. By the way, this is the 25th time there has been a deterioration in shipping since Stortinget was presented with the previous communication on shipping policy. So there are very uncertain conditions, and they also signal uncertainty, flagging out and in the utmost consequence losing 15 000 jobs. In the case of Statkraft, there are major problems because the company has been linked to pigs. 95 pst. dividends. If you count on the correction tax, we're actually up to almost 98 pst. And it can't be actionable. Why will the Government have different framework conditions than for shipping and important energy companies owned by the State outside the borders of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1212	Firstly, I have to say to the characteristics of the decisions taken, ‘swine bound’, as the representative Hedstrøm calls it, that it is the Stortinget that then has ‘swine bound’ State power – it is in this room the dividend is determined. That being said, the Storting has often determined dividends that have been quite large. Also in the proposition for next year we suggest a level of 95 pst. But in order to clarify a possible misunderstanding that has occurred recently related to the fact that State power is within a period where one might consolidate and make sales of assets, etc., it is the Government's intention to have a dividend of 95 pst. on ordinary operations, and not on extraordinary revenues that will be triggered by consolidation by selling other shares, which will result in book values that are less than the sales gain and thus realise the gain.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1219	It was a joyous news that at least you are now signaling this, and I expect you to inform Statkraft as soon as possible. The state-owned business strategy is to develop the business so that it can become a leading company in the Nordic region and have great significance in Northern Europe. Then you can get resources released without the government wanting to take dividends on that piece. It could be a lot of billions. So to the EEA Agreement, which has been invoked by the Government in relation to this equity injection. I've aired this in a lot of environments, and they're headstrong about relying on the EEA Agreement to go against an equity injection of NOK 10 billion, as the Stortinget has decided. How can the Council of State defend this when, in general, all environments are at the head of it, and we have state companies in Europe where such a policy towards the company exists, for example. EdF and Vattenfall?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1226	In the case of head ironing, I would not be surprised if there is also a significant degree of head ironing related to the fact that 10 billion DKK of equity is committed without having a thorough evaluation of all aspects of the matter, including the EEA perspective, at my discretion. As you call in the woods, you get answers to these questions, often. However, I think it would be wise for us to go all the way to that area, too, in order to avoid getting into the same problem that we have been in in almost all of the state companies that have been privatised or fully privatised, by getting objections from other competing industry players, who have perceived it as having received a gift package initially before any partial privatisation. Now it's not that it's near impending sub-privatisation. As the ownership message indicated, we have opened up industrial solutions. There will always be processes on such things and assessments of possible industrial solutions. In this context, it is important to have full certainty that the equity that has been contributed is cleared in relation to the EEA legislation that we have. President, the clock's off! This indicates that I can be allowed to hold on for another while.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1235	This indicates that the Council of State has got a little extra time!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1238	Thank you for that, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1246	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «E6 through Østfold has been burdened with very many accidents. In the light of the opinion of the Council of State on the late progress of E6 works in Eastfold, as reproduced in the Eastfold newspapers, I request that the Council of State assess the following: Can such a delay be carried out by 2007 in order to reduce the number of injuries and to kill this route?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1253	As Minister of Transport, I have made a strong commitment to ensuring faster deployment of E6 through Eastfold. This is particularly necessary in the interests of road safety, but also in view of the huge importance of the road to business across the country. Therefore, in spring 2002, the Government put forward plans for the accelerated development of E6 through Eastfold, to which the Stortingen joined. Thus, E6 through Østfold and beyond until Oslo is completed as a continuous motorway during 2009. Significant parts of the route will be completed as early as 2005, and in the 2004 State budget, the Government has proposed sufficient resources to ensure such progress. Further progress depends both on speeding up the use of State resources and toll loans in addition to those contained in the 2002-2011 action programme and on local willingness to increase the tariffs of the current Easternfold package toll scheme. I have recently been informed that plans for the completion of the project are being worked on locally until 2007. An additional redundancy until 2007 will depend on progress in the planning process and require major changes in the financing structure. I am basically in favour of working on the possibility of early completion of E6 through Østfold than in 2009, and that the Road Directorate assesses these plans more closely. However, account must be taken of the fact that the accelerated deployment of E6 is not at the expense of the deployment of E18 through Eastfold. The government will return to the plan for the further development of E6 through Eastfold in the National Transport Plan Report 2006-2015, presented in spring 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1264	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have no difficulty in giving the Council of State much credit for the active attitude that has been shown regarding the very important routes E6 and E18 through Eastfold. There has been a willingness and not least the ability to bring up a pace that is of great benefit to this region. I am also very pleased that we can now see that this is the basis for 2004, too – so far as the budgetary procedure here in the Grand Duchy is concerned, there is the possibility that the pace and work can be continued. Then it seems that there is a basis for me to draw that conclusion, based on the Sarpsborg Arbeiderblad's assumption in his question, that the Council of State will have full progress in this matter in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1269	As I said in my answer, I am concerned that we should find a quick solution for E6. We have already had this accelerated by several years, and in any case, we can have a completed four-field road in 2009, which is an important acceleration in relation to the previous plans. As I have said, I am positive about looking at opportunities to provide further – as far as possible. It is important that this road has a good standard, both for the sake of those who live there, the business that operates there, and not least all those who are exposed to accidents, of which unfortunately there are too many.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1274	I thank you again for the answer. At the end of the first answer, it was probably also clear to the Council of State that both of these pathways, both the E6 and the E18, now have to be seen in a context based on their importance and the high accident rate that they have. Then I understand that what the Council of State intends to do is to compare both of these road projects as closely as possible to the benefit of road users and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1279	I am particularly concerned that any further maintenance of the development of the E6 will not contribute to delays on the E18. I am concerned that we should have a high pace of development of both roads, and that we could possibly get to a service without going beyond the other one.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1287	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «I St.meld. No 18 for 2002-2003 the Ministry of Transport announces that 450 MHz frequencies will be published and allocated during 2003. These frequency resources are due to: low frequencies especially suitable for geographical coverage in vulnerable areas. The CDMA 2000 is a potential heir to the NMT 450 network that will be shut down next year. The CDMA 2000 is a standardised 3G technology and a CDMA 2000 network in the 450 MHz band will provide a nationwide network. Will the State Council provide for a prompt announcement of the 450 MHz frequencies?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1296	I want to refer to just St.meld. No 18 for 2002-2003, where the Ministry, in cooperation with the Post and Telecommunications Authority, ‘sees’ to issue authorisation for the use of frequencies in the 450 MHz band during 2003. I can assure you that work is being done in the Department and in the Post and Telecommunications Authority to facilitate an early announcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1301	When I address the question in this form, it's because there's a relatively rapid development in this area. In different disciplines it has been reported that CDMA 2000 has a very large capacity of 450 MHz frequencies, which provides the basis for implementing this, and I quote what was the conclusions of the supervision in St.meld. No 18: ‘Frequencies should be published as a single block during 2003. It would be interesting to know more about how to include this part of technology in order to get a nationwide broadband network.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1306	It's exactly the same oversight to which this is referred, which has the bulk of the work currently in progress in preparing for the announcement of these frequencies. So I want to remind you that this is a parallel network to the network that's built into the 900-band and into the 1800-band. The advantage of the frequencies we're talking about here is that they're going to go further. I'm interested that we're going to put these into use, and that we're going to put them into use in such a way that society is earned that we also have a net in this frequency band. As I said, this work is ongoing both in the supervision and in the department, and we are still aiming at an early announcement of these frequencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1311	I have not formulated the objective ‘in 2003’. It is both supervision and department that have formulated it. What is important in this context, and it may be that the Council of States can respond specifically, is that the Council of States also sees the potential for coordination between the three different networks CDMA 2000, UMTS and GSM, in order to have a nationwide network.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1316	I also think it is important to see the development in the context. As we know, we haven't implemented the UMTS network yet, and we have multiple parallel networks. There's a lot of network expansion in our country, and there's a lot of different technologies going on. I'm also concerned that we can use these technologies in one type of terminal for users, and so it's important that we see more aspects than just the frequency band when we light this out. We do this because the inhabitants of our country are going to benefit from the offer that will come in this frequency band.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1325	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: «By St. Prp. No 76 for 2001-2002 on the Bergen programme, a decision has been taken on the right to collect tolls for the partial toll financing of the programme. The Road Directorate has been authorised to enter into an agreement with the toll company and to lay down rules on the financial instrument. How is it ensured that the extension and extension of more than 15 years with tolls in Bergen does not result in unreasonable results for residents in general, as well as for commercial and commercial traffic when a car is frequently used during the working day and the other day?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1334	In Bergen there has been an extensive local process in front of Stortinget's treatment of St.prp. No 76 for 2001-2002. Among other things, the City Council in Bergen on 27 November 2000 has decided on the number of toll stations, the introduction of electronic payment systems as soon as practicable and the establishment of the applicable tariff guidelines for the establishment of the tariff system. These principles have been agreed upon by the Storting in the treatment of St.prp. No 76 for 2001-2002. It is true, as the representative Sortevik points out, that the Directorate of Road has been authorised to enter into an agreement with the toll company and to lay down detailed rules for the financing scheme. The Toll Agreement is a matter between the Road Directorate and the Bergen Toll Company AS. The Directorate of Roads is also responsible for the establishment of tariff and discount systems for the Toll Scheme in Bergen. This is done on application by the toll company and recommended by the Regional Road Manager. The decision is made in accordance with the instructions given in the Stortinge treatment of St.prp. No 76 for 2001-2002 and in line with the guidelines which are also based on the principles to which the Storing has joined. In a letter dated 3 October, the Swedish Road Administration sent proposals for tariff decisions to the municipality of Bergen and the county of Hordaland for an opinion. The Road Directorate awaits these opinions before the final tariff decisions are taken, where the question of the representative of Sortevik is assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1343	For the time being, it appears that the principles of the current tariff system are not being followed. The scheme outlined includes a new pricing where it is payable on all days of the week and at all days of the day. Car users who have only marginal use of the road system within the ring have to pay full price because there is no alternative road. Car users who travel a lot in the context of a profession and/or industry during 24 hours have to pay a heavy fee increase, which thus both threatens jobs and is highly price driven. Should not the Ministry, through the Directorate of Roads, lay down rules to prevent clearly adverse effects?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1350	An important principle of the tariff guidelines is that all groups of road users benefiting from the toll project should pay tolls. However, it will be possible for some to be burdened more in terms of tolls than others. The tariff guidelines have taken into account the ability to adapt the tariff system in order to achieve the most equitable and understandable system. This can be done by means of a discount structure, by exempting special groups of road users such as buses, electric cars, persons with reduced mobility, etc., from the number of passages per. month, joint subscription, etc. Another principle is that the tariff and discount system should be as simple and standardised as possible. These are the principles that the Storing has been dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1357	It is such that local authorities have to submit their toll projects to the Stortinge for approval. It's also done in this case. But the locals are not asked. On that basis, should not the Ministry feel a particular responsibility to ensure that payment rules in such a system are designed in such a way as to prevent the greed of local, eager toll-causing politicians from turning to the detriment of users?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1362	As I replied instead, there are opportunities to adjust the tariff and discount system according to very special local conditions. It is true that it is the people in Bergen who are very useful to implement the Bergen programme. Therefore, it is not unreasonable for the people of Bergen to contribute to this. This has been the local political consensus about, and with the democratic system that we have, that is what we have to rely on in the continuation of these types of projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1375	«The Ministry of Transport has granted a holiday concession to the Danish Mols line on the Bergen–Stavanger route. It is the first time a foreign company is granted a concession for a domestic holiday section. Denmark has introduced net wages and salaries for all seafarers, which is much lower than the Norwegian ferry company has. Will all Norwegian domestic ferries now be exposed to competition from foreign companies with foreign working conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1382	In the maritime sector, Council Regulation (EC) No 3577/92 on the right to provide maritime transport services within the Member States, i.e. maritime cabotage, carried out in Norwegian law in 1998. This Council Regulation permits all ships flying the EEA flag to carry passengers and/or goods between ports in each of the other EEA countries. An important aspect of the Regulation and its inclusion in the EEA Agreement is that it gives Norwegian shipping the freedom to provide services in the internal market, i.e.: in the EEA territory. Therefore, for that part of shipping which requires special authorisation under the Professional Transport Act, namely domestic regular passenger vessels, including ferries, the authorisation system must be practised in accordance with that cabotage regulation in the EEA legislation. Like other modes of domestic maritime transport, domestic services on a regular basis will also be open to the participation of companies from other EEA countries. Shipowners from different countries in the EEA territory may have unequal conditions of competition. As long as tax and aid schemes are within the scope of what is permitted under the EEA Agreement, such differences cannot in themselves justify the rejection of foreign companies. I assume that the tax and support schemes that may affect the Mols line are compatible with EEA law, and I want to make sure in good time before the route starts, that this is the case. In addition, foreign companies are subject to the same security requirements and conditions as Norwegian shipping companies. This concerns provisions on navigability and qualification requirements for ratings, including language proficiency requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1399	I thank you for your answer. I interpret this as a yes to my question. This case is a very special case, because it's the first time in Norwegian history that one has received two concessions on the same line, a parallel concession. This has happened without any political debate, at least the Storting has not had the opportunity to have one. It has dramatically changed the framework conditions for those engaged in transporting in this area. Actually, I would like to ask if it is such that on a fundamental basis a now has introduced free competition on all the ferry routes in Norway that will be lighted up on the concession.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1406	We want, from our point of view, as a policy, that we want to compete on the different ferry routes – on the national road network, which is what the state is responsible for – because we believe that it is a win to get through it. It is not new rights policy to grant parallel concessions for domestic passenger transport, as we include: has several examples of such parallel concessions in the case of cross-border express buses. In other words, it's not a new policy that we have this kind of parallel solutions. On the question of whether it is a government policy to have competition on ferries, the answer is yes. It'll essentially be our policy, because we think we have a win to get through it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1415	It's the first time that one has a parallel concession on ferry operations in Norway. It is such that the Government has changed the laws on working and rest periods and has said that it should not apply to foreign labour on boats. In theory, it would say that there may be Ukrainian seafarers or Belarusian seafarers who, following this new policy, will manna Norwegian ferries. If the policy outlined here by the Government suggests, it will mean that there will be labour with a completely different wage and working conditions than is the case in Norway. In some cases, there are fleets that are supported by their state, that is, the flag State, to offer. In my view, this would in practice mean that in the future it will be totally impossible for Norwegian ferries, with the conditions of competition they currently have, to win competition in Norway. Does the Council of State see it as a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1420	What is important to me in connection with these ferry connections is that we have safe ships, and that we have crews who are suitable to take on the responsibility of working on such ships. Qualification requirements must be laid down for the crew. It is an important basis for all this transport. In addition, language skills will be required. Therefore, I am not afraid that we will not have crews on ferries in Norway that do not take care of this. The requirements we set are to follow the legislation that is in relation to the EEA, in relation to safety, in relation to the quality with which the passengers should be met on the boats. That is, they meet a team that, among other things. can be found in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1429	This question, from the representative of Ingrid I. Opedal to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs. The question will be raised by the representative Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1432	I'll try in newnorm: ‘In connection with the conversion of a differentiated employer’s fee from the new year, the 14 municipalities that received an increase in the tax in 2000, require full compensation for the same period as the other municipalities are now insured, e.g. by dividing documented sub-compensation over four years. For business, the de minimis rules should also apply to them. Does the Council of State understand these requirements and is it willing to reconsider the government’s submission on final treatment of the State budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1441	First, I would like to congratulate Andersen on being better at her new performance than I was here a few weeks ago. So to the answer: The fact that 14 municipalities received a higher employer’s fee from the year 2000 was due to the fact that according to the then government, the municipalities no longer satisfied the requirements to be within the geographical area of the differentiated employer’s fee. This adjustment took into account the EEA Regional and Transport Aid Code and the previous ESA Decision. In order to obtain new and more disadvantaged municipalities, a prioritisation had to be made between municipalities. The change in the rate was limited, from 10.6 pst. until 14,1 p.m., in the municipalities that changed the rate. The Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research has also monitored the development of these relevant municipalities. The latest report captures developments up to the end of 2002. The main impression is that it is difficult to point out clear differences in the development of the 14 municipalities compared to other comparable municipalities. The situation of the 14 municipalities cannot be compared with the situation we are currently in, where there is a change in the ESA’s requirement to wind up today’s scheme that will compensate 235 municipalities from 2004 through various measures. Nor can the situation be compared with the compensation granted from 2000 to specific areas in the form of their own yard programme and additional infrastructure measures. These funds were deployed as a result of the fact that special industries had to be excluded from the scheme, not because the situation in the relevant municipalities provided it. On this basis, I find it difficult to comply with the requirement of the 14 municipalities. On the other hand, in the 2000 changes, municipalities had a short period to adapt to a situation with a higher charge. In my view, therefore, some compensation was quite reasonable, but this transition phase is now over. In the light of what has been said so far, the Government, as the representative is also aware, has not proposed additional funds for the 14 municipalities to continue in the 2004 State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1458	I thank you for your answer and continue on to book goals. I'm not going to go into detail on this matter, because I know that the Minister for the Environment can't necessarily do that. However, with regard to the requirements imposed on these 14 municipalities, there is certainly reason to put some question mark on the criteria underlying it – but now leave it. The government has now taken political initiatives to disregard some of the legislation and applied for exemptions, for example, in dealing with the loss of the differentiated employer fee. in the case of transport aid for four municipalities in More and Romesdal located outside the geographical area, because it was considered necessary. Does not the Council of States see that it is possible to take a political initiative in which they wish to meet those affected by sudden increases in charges, such as this, in a better way than has been done at present? Because it is clear that there are some criteria on a sheet that have determined the determination, and not a concrete assessment of the situation in the individual municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1467	When the Storting changed the rates for 2001, it was on the grounds that 14 of these municipalities did not satisfy the requirements for having a lower employer rate. It could be due to nutritional weakness and so on. Then some municipalities that had problems were incorporated into the scheme instead. However, because this change was not going to be too sudden, a change in the employer's fee from approx. 10 pst. up to 14 pst., a transitional arrangement was put in place. It expires now. Then NIBR has been set to monitor developments in these municipalities. As I have explained, it is difficult to point out clear differences in the development of these 14 municipalities. As I have also underlined, the Government has not added up to a continuation for 2004. And now the budget is for handling in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1472	I thank you again for the answer. I have the basic material for these municipalities at the time. I can't go into detail and discuss it, but there's reason to question any of the numbers. But once again, I would like to ask the Council of State on a political basis: when you experience such major changes, as you are also doing today, does the Council of State not see the reason for at least entering into the political instruments we can use? It's going on, for example. to substantiate the local government sector, to contribute larger sums to industrial development appropriations or to provide indirect support to the business community in a stronger way than the Government has now done. There is an attempt to get the Government to see that there can be both a possible way to mitigate the worst difficulty for the areas concerned and a direct handshake for the enterprises in this area. Because there is no doubt that an improved municipal economy, or that the municipalities and county municipalities have more resources at their disposal for regional development, will be a major benefit to the companies in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1481	What the government has done is to follow the premises of the Storting, even when this decision was taken in 2000. These municipalities no longer satisfied ESA’s requirements and then received a higher employer’s fee. However, a transitional arrangement was made, the effects of the increased employer’s fee on the enterprises in these municipalities were evaluated, and the research concluded that there were no major changes in these municipalities. So if you're going to spend more resources here, you're going to have to evaluate it completely. With regard to the government's plans for the municipal sector for next year, I think you should go quite a long way back in order to find such a comprehensive and good arrangement for the municipal sector. However, with regard to the county funds raised by the representative, it is clear that it is up to each county municipality to assess whether any of these 14 municipalities should receive additional support through the means at their disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1498	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1506	This question, from the representative Signe Øye to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1509	I have the following questions to the Minister for the Environment, who will answer on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In January a young woman from Kenya came to Norway on a tourist visa. Here she met a man from Gjøvik in whom she fell in love, and they engaged. In the middle of March she had to leave the country due. the expiry of the tourist visa. In Kenya, the woman applied for a new tourist visa on April 30. On 20 May the case was registered with UDI. It was not until 10 September that the case was forwarded to the Sarpsborg Police Chamber where the necessary interview was to be conducted. Is the Council satisfied that the UDI proceedings take so long, and what will she do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1518	As the representative is familiar with, municipal minister Solberg does not interfere in individual matters. I will therefore not comment on this specific matter in her place either. However, I would like to comment on the situation regarding the procedure period in general, and on the measures now being put in place to control the situation. The number of untreated cases in the Foreign Affairs Directorate was in the summer more than twice as many as in the summer of 2002. A large proportion of these cases are citizens' cases, but proceedings are also too long in other types of housing cases. The introduction of the new non-resident management computer has contributed to an increase in the processing time and to the compilation of the balances. On that basis, the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs asked the Foreign Affairs Directorate just over the summer for a plan to reduce the number of stays. The Directorate of Foreign Affairs is now working under this plan to reduce the length of time spent on residence matters, including visa matters. In addition, work on housing in the Directorate for Foreign Affairs has recently been reorganised with a view to improving efficiency. This information was received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and they also show that developments are now on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1529	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am aware that the Council of State cannot deal with individual cases, but it is nevertheless important to put a picture of what is now happening in relation to the long process period in the UDI. UDI informed this woman that she could apply for a new visa from Kenya, and that the trial period would take about two months. So now it's over six months. It is not that the UDI did not know that they had received a new processing system that would probably lead to an increase in the processing time, so this is more pure misinformation. My question is: Does the Council of State think this is a worthy way to treat a person who wants to come here to the country because she has found herself a boy with whom she wants to live?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1538	When you hear the word "wrong information", you always ate your ears. In that case, I think it would be the UDI coin if I understood the representative correctly. This is usually not my area. But what I decided in my reply to the representative Eye was that the introduction of the new foreign management computer system has contributed to an increase in the processing time and to the processing of the balances. It has been complicated to introduce this new system. However, the Minister of State has taken this into account and asked for a plan to reduce the number of stays, and the Directorate of Foreign Affairs is now working on this plan to reduce the processing time, which the representative is also involved in, among others. in visa matters. According to information provided by the Directorate for Foreign Affairs, this trend is now on the right track. In this way, we have also taken up what is the basis for the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1545	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. With regard to this matter, it has also been a problem that the embassy in Nairobi thought that only this gentleman came to Nairobi and married, the girl would get a new visa. If you first came to Norway and were married, it would be very easy to get a residence permit. In the meantime, they changed the manager of the embassy in Nairobi, and he had a completely different view. Does the Council of State think that it is acceptable to have different opinions at the embassy and mislead people who are trying to make the best of a situation, trying to live up to what the authorities say they should do?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1554	I am asking for an understanding that I cannot comment on the information that is now available orally here in relation to relations at our embassy in Nairobi. What is the political point is that the Minister of State has no desire to go into individual matters. What is important for the Government is that we now reduce the processing time even when it comes to visa issues. This will enable us to respond more fully to the representative's request for a flexible procedure here. I think everyone's earned that, so we're working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1569	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1575	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: «In the municipality of Elverum a wolf was shot by an elve a short time ago. The shot fell because the hunter's hunting dog was attacked by two wolves, and the hunter claims it was an emergency. Does the Council of State, on a general basis, consider that it is necessary to equate a dog with a buffalo in the case of an emergency court?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1584	The specific matter to which the representative Hult refers is now under police investigation, and it would therefore not be right for me to comment on this. Section 11 of the Wildlife Act permits the killing of game by «significant risk of injury to a person» or by «direct attack on a buffalo». The 1993 Stortinget tightened up the provision for an attack on the buff. The amendment was implemented in order to clarify the content of the emergency protection right and to ensure that the provision became more consistent with international environmental obligations. The change in the game law in 1999 defined the concept of "bufe" as covering sheep, goats, cattle and horses. Dogs are not currently covered by the Civil Protection Act. However, dogs were included in the 1999 replacement regulation. Compensation is granted for a hunting dog killed by predatory game during legal hunting, legal training or hunting dog tests. It is also important to be aware that measures can be taken to reduce the risk of attacks on hunting dogs. An example is the so-called wolf telephone, which, by informing about the last known position of radio-labelled wolves, reduces the risk of hunting dogs being killed by wolves within the known wolves. This measure has been well received in the districts concerned and has worked well. The Storting has asked the Government to provide its own forecast of the game management. This message will be submitted before the end of the year, i.e. in a short time. The Government will carry out a broad review of the entire predatory game policy, including legal and economic instruments. Since the notice is so short, I do not want to advance the government's conclusions on this point either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1597	I thank you for your answer. We are aware that there is a wolf telephone, and that you have the opportunity to call and get information about where wolves are located. Now, once again, there are actually many wolves that don't go under that radio marking. It is not more than six days since it was driven in the heel of a wolf that no one knew where came from. This is a general problem, which appears year after year during the hunt. I choose not to hunt rather than hunt with a dog. Hunting is a necessary resource today. We have an obligation to manage our game strain. I think the hunters and all those affected by this need a reasonable – and clear – explanation of what is really happening and what is going on. It must be a mistake that if you stand there and watch your dog get eaten, you get paid for it, while if you try to intervene and get hurt in order to kill a predator, you get punished. That must be quite clear rules. So I want to ask you this: we want a law that is so clear that everyone has something to do with emergency situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1606	As I said, they have also tried to meet these interests by creating a wolf telephone in the most affected areas. In the areas defined as the zone where you have wolves, you can also get this type of information. As I said, the government is about to make a statement on predatory policy, and we will come back to the question raised by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1611	I thank you for your answer. Will the Council of State then be able to promise that the issue of hunting dogs and possibly predators in relation to predators will be part of that message, since it was not in the previous one?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1618	What the Council of State can promise is that there will be a call for violence before Christmas, where you will be discussing the current issues related to predatory game policy. The size will include, among other things: be invited to discuss this issue as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1626	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘In the climate notification setting, the bulk of the population, all lots except the Progress Party, supports the objective of St.meld. No 54 for 2000-2001 to prevent greenhouse gas emissions from large carbon stocks in ants. What has the Government done to follow up its objectives so far, and what cost-benefit effect is at stake in the work?’ I'm excited about the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1637	I thank you for that supplement. This is demonstrated by the government of Stoltenberg's climate report, St.meld. No 54 for 2000-2001, the need to maintain high carbon stocks in line with the UNFCCC commitment to ‘spare and increase greenhouse gas stocks’, Article 4.2a. The notification referred to ‘among others in forests and ants’ as examples. There is no exact estimate of the amount of carbon storage in ants, but we know that the extent is not negligible and that a reduction in ants will release carbon that is added to other CO2 and other greenhouse gases. The message from the previous government points out, among other things: on to the «the amount of carbon in soil in Norway may be adversely affected by flattening, burrowing and planting of bogs and intensive soil preparation». The main task of the Government's environmental policy is to preserve biodiversity. The government has pursued offensive policies to take care of important natural areas in general and aims to increase the proportion of forest protected. This policy has the added effect of helping to stabilise carbon storage in forests and ants. One measure has been to cut state financial support for the burial of bogs in forests. Without state subsidies, such measures are so low that the drying of ants to increase forest production is no longer significant. In the case of conversion of bogs for agricultural purposes, the authorities have become very restrictive. Any new cultivation may only be carried out on a plan approved by the municipality. Particular attention will be paid to aspects relevant to natural and environmental values in the decision. The presence of ant areas and swamp and wetlands weigh heavily in this context. The government will also first issue a draft new forest law for general consultation. The environmental aspects are central to this draft law. An thoughtful view of how we manage forests, moors and agricultural land, which will also help to conserve carbon stocks in forests and moors, does not have to entail excessive additional costs. On the contrary, it will work positively in terms of both biodiversity and climate management.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1661	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the eyes of the Progress Party, the entire climate debate is marked by the fact that both the government and the bulk of the population have stabbed their heads in the ants and have not got it up again. It is a fact that more and more researchers are critical of the gloomy predictions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that it is man-made activity that results in climate change. Recently, Swedish researchers have claimed that there is not enough oil in the world to get global warming. It is also Canadian researchers who are critical of the UN Panel on Climate Change and the predictions they come with, and they point out, as many, many other researchers have done, that the climate has changed over time, and that the globe is not a climate-static planet. And it's a fact that the entire Kyoto agreement is hanging in blue, because it's not ratified by enough countries, and probably won't be. So the question: will the Council of State ensure that there will be a new treatment of the climate issue, or will the Government go in the same direction as before, completely regardless of what happens elsewhere in the world, if not the Kyoto agreement is ratified by many enough countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1670	I have previously heard that you should not put your head in the sand, but now you should not put your head in the ant. I fully agree with the representative. As far as climate change is concerned, in my view, recent knowledge has not been brought forward to suggest anything other than that man-made climate change is now taking place. It is also the conclusion of the third IPCC report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, which states that there is every reason to believe that the next hundred years the average temperature of the earth will change by between 1 and 60°C due to human greenhouse gas emissions. We have to remember that since the last ice age, 10,000 to 15,000 years ago, the climate has not changed more than that that can happen in the next hundred years. So here we're making a pretty serious impact on this. In the case of oil, I have to add that in addition to oil, we have the fossil fuel coal. It's more than oil, and it could be much longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1679	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What's probably gained momentum in this debate lately is the activity that's been on the sun. This is something we in the Progress Party have known and shown many times in this Chamber, and we have been ridiculed both by the government parties and by the Government in this way. It is gratifying that some outside the Progress Party are now beginning to see the same thing as we are, and then I don't think of researchers, but for example. on the representative Leif Frode Onarheim from the Right, who, after a look-up in the NRK Dagsrevyen, said that this was new information for him, and that this was worth listening to. In other words, even within the Council of State's own party, people are beginning to doubt the gloomy predictions of the United Nations Climate Panel. It will, as Mr Onarheim also pointed out, have serious consequences for the business community if a one-sided, idiosyncrasy policy is pursued in this area. Will the Council of State shortly ensure that Norwegian industry and business have a level playing field with emissions of so-called greenhouse gases, such as industry and business in countries with which they compete?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1690	Now, I guess there are some people outside the Progress Party who have known about the activity of the sun. These reports, which have come from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, have also included this overall assessment. The point is that changes in the sun are little we can do with. In terms of anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions, cleaner fuels can be used, and this can affect humans. If we look at the tough weather that we have experienced in Europe, not least in recent years – this year it was dry, last year it was flood, and there has been a brown cloud over part of Asia – these are indications of what happens if we do nothing to reduce climate change. There will be much tougher weather – much worse and wilder. We have to avoid this for all intents and purposes. What the United Nations Panel on Climate Change, with over a thousand researchers, has said, is that there is every reason to believe that, unfortunately, man-made climate change is taking place. Then we need a policy to reduce the risk associated with this. Norway has gone ahead with international demands on most people and businesses to reduce this, with petrol taxes and the like, and we will continue to do so, but we hope that more people will implement that kind of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1698	I have the following questions for the country's Minister for the Environment: «For many years acid rain has resulted in the majority of the waters and streams on the South Seas having been virtually empty. However, in recent years the situation has changed positively, and the fish has returned several places where it was previously entirely empty. Positive developments are largely due to intensive liming. But still the water quality in several watercourses in Agder is not good enough with regard to the pH value. How does the Council of State assess the future need for water liming and watercourses in the South?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1707	In the last few years, acid rain has been greatly reduced. Among other things, the sulphur drop is reduced by about 65 pst. since 1980. A new report from the Norwegian Institute of Water Research shows that the area receiving acidification beyond the tolerance limit is reduced from up to 100 000 km2 to 43 000 km2, or in another way: from one third to one eighth of the land area of mainland Norway. This very happy development is largely due to international agreements on emission reductions, for which Norway has been a champion. Nevertheless, the liming appropriations are kept at a relatively stable level, despite this decline. The report of the Norwegian Institute of Water Research also shows that mainly areas in the South and South West are now receiving supplies of acidification beyond the tolerance limit. In these areas we have the greatest exceedances, but here too the improvement in water quality is most visible. So evolution is also going in the right direction in these parts of the country. However, in the most acidifying areas, reduced intakes of acidification will lead to significant improvements in water quality. This is largely due to mining conditions. In these areas, such as: include the Agder counties, there will be a need for continued liming, and this will be prioritised. This year, 22.5 million will be used. kr for liming in the Agder counties. I would like to stress that the Government is still adding up to a significant effort against acidification damage. However, the Directorate for Nature Management has calculated that the positive trend in the acidification situation provides a basis for reducing the liming costs of existing projects by around 5 pst. per 1 % years. In addition, it will be possible to make more efficient and tighter – it is certainly something for which the Progress Party has the sense – the related business, such as: research and investigation work, performance checks and conservation measures. As far as research is concerned, we have acquired so good knowledge that it would be appropriate to reduce some of the activities without compromising the quality of the liming work. The results check, which will ensure that we lime properly, can also be simplified for a number of projects that have been in progress over a long period of time and with which we now have good control. There is also room to reduce the cost of conservation measures for acidified salmon populations, as we have just set aside a period of relatively large investments in the gene bank in Eidfjord. The activities I've mentioned here amount to about 26 million. SEK of the total appropriation of 98,2 million. kr in 2003. So if you combine the possibility of 5 pst. reduction of these measures, I think that the Directorate for Nature Management, through its thorough review, will find that the level of funding currently being spent by the Government is responsible and sound in relation to the challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1724	I would like to thank you for a very good answer. Acidification of water and watercourses has been one of Norway’s most serious environmental problems, and in particular there has been a significant environmental problem in South Africa. Liming of water and watercourses in the South has been crucial to improving water quality. There are few environmental measures that give as much back as just liming. State councils were concerned with the size of the area covered by liming measures today, and said that it has been reduced from one third to one eighth of the land area of mainland Norway. However, there are still some areas where liming is not carried out in the South, and acid rain still has a major negative effect there. I would like to ask the Council of State how he views this by limeding several places where today it is not limed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1735	First, it is also important to stress, as the representative here does, that the area currently affected by acidification is reduced from 100 000 km2 to 43 000 km2 and that the sulphur drop over Norway is reduced by about 65 pst. since 1980. Nevertheless, the appropriations for liming purposes are kept at about the same level. It actually means that there has been an increased bet. But, as I have also stressed, in the areas that are hardest hit, it will take more time, especially because of rock conditions. So in the areas that have been hit most, it's important to keep the activity up, and this year it's going to be $22.5 million. kr for liming in the two Agder counties, as the representative mentioned. With regard to the use of liming materials within these two counties, I will leave this to the specialist authorities, the Directorate for Nature Management and the counties, to distribute it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1740	I thank you for your answer. The government probably knows that it's not just Trondelag that has its nidelv. The largest watercourse in East Agder is also called Nidelva, and it is actually a river that in its time was one of the best salmon rivers in South Norway. However, in the 1960s and 1970s both salmon and other fish species were almost eradicated due to acidic water in Nidelva. But today the salmon population is slowly on the way up again, and this is due to strong efforts by both landowners, power plant owners and other stakeholders. But then the water quality in terms of pH is a very big problem in the lower and salmon-bearing parts of Nidelva, because this part of the watercourse is not limed today. It is now working intensively locally to get the lime in the lower parts of Nidelva. And then my question is to the Council of State: is the Council of State willing to look into the work that is now being done in Nidelva, and consider what he might be able to do to get the lime Nidelva and get the salmon back into the Nidelvästre?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1747	First I have to say that I am delighted when Andersen stresses the importance of international environmental agreements, and acidification has been one of the major environmental problems. International action, by making demands on businesses, has reduced this environmental pollution. We also discussed similar issues in the previous questions, and we continue to work with other areas that have the same potential for environmental damage. When it comes to liming, I try to sharpen the liming effort more towards real liming, and I try to streamline the activities that are not direct liming projects. I understand that it is a good entrance to a council from Trondheim to mention Nidelva, although it is not about Nidelva in Trondheim, but Nidelva in East Agder, I understand. It is clear that the counties and DN have to look at the distribution of these liming materials in the Agder counties and see where there is a greater need. And if it turns out that the need is greater in the lower parts there, you have to distribute those funds differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1759	‘Lax fishing in Iddefjorden is regulated by a separate Convention between Norway and Sweden. The current legislation is distinct from Norwegian rules. Today, extensive fixed gear fishing takes place from 10 May to 15 August, reducing the amount of salmon in rivers. What can the Council of State do to speed up the revision of the Convention between the countries, and will there be leadership in order to get an approximate Norwegian salmon floor also in Iddefjord?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1766	I took an initiative with the Swedish authorities last year to start reviewing the agreement on fishing for salmon and trout in Svinesund, Iddefjorden and Enningdalselva. The background to this was the problems we had in implementing measures to prevent the spread of the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris from an infected farm in Bullaren – which I believe the representative is familiar with, not least as former rapporteur in Halden. I therefore paid particular attention to the need to extend the agreement with provisions that could improve the protection of the important salmon population in Enningdalselva from harmful activities, including: the spread of disease from farming. In addition, there was a need to look at other aspects of the agreement, not least the regulation of salmon fishing. Today, the current Swedish-Norwegian agreement allows for a slightly wider access to fishing in the sea than in Norway. It's e.g. allow fishing with hook nets and seiners in Iddefjorden. On the other hand, fishing by rod and purse in the fjord is only allowed during fishing time, while in the rest of the country, starting this year, such fishing is open all year round. Fishing times are also slightly longer in this area than is usual in South Norway. The normal regulation of salmon fishing in Norway is based on a sound professional basis and is designed to ensure that the tax rate is as adapted as possible to the individual stock. Among other things, we have banned the use of hook nets throughout the country, except Finnmark, in order to avoid extensive fishing deaths due to yarn damage. We have also made sure that nets used for recreational fishing for saltwater fish are lowered and do not lie in the body of water, so that they do not catch salmonids, which are moving at the top. In addition, access to fishing for barbed trout and purse seiners throughout the year in the fjord areas is important for recreational fishing. I therefore agree that the Norwegian legislation should be the starting point for the forthcoming negotiations with Sweden. Preparations for negotiations with Sweden are already under way. Among other things, the county of Eastfold has recently organised a meeting with representatives of local interests to obtain views and to ensure that the Norwegian positions are well anchored in the community. Here it's an avid local fishing environment, which I'm not least familiar with. I would like to have a new and good agreement with Sweden as soon as possible, and will give priority to this. However, I recall that progress will also depend on the priorities on the Swedish side.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1781	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and for his personal commitment in collaboration with local fishing organisations to get rid of farmed fish with Gyrodactylus salaris. He has done a very important job, and it has been exemplary, especially in view of the long-term management of salmon stocks in the south of Eastfold. In fact, in order to have a sustainable salmon population, local fisheries associations have imposed extensive self-imposed restrictions on other watercourses in Norway. This applies, for example: the maximum number of fish that can be fished per year. person per person the season, and the number of fish that can be fished per season; 24 hours. It also applies to the conservation of quiet parties in the rivers. These measures are of no use, for example: fjord net fishing is not subject to any equivalent restriction or regulation. Today, fixed gear fishing is permitted for 63 days in the fjord, while similar for others, much larger watercourses in Norway are 36. My question is: Will the Council of State ensure – although he has said a little about it – that concessions and fishing seasons are adapted to Norwegian conditions in order to ensure the long-term stock of fjords?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1790	First of all, thank you for the nice words in relation to getting rid of the sea trout plant in Bullaren, which spread ‘gyro’ infection throughout this heavy lake, by listing Gyrodactylus salaris as a fish disease in Sweden, which was not until what happened in Bullaren. The self-imposed restrictions in the fishing environment in this part of Eastfold show the strong commitment you have, not least around the salmon. And I see the paradox in choosing to limit the number of fish you pick up, if you can fish outside of the spring with hook nets and seines. Therefore, in the negotiations with the Swedes, I would like to try to understand that we are going to base the Norwegian provisions, which exclude the use of, among other things. hook yarn in this part of the water.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1797	For a long time it has been relatively low spawning numbers. This is due, for example, to: that Iddefjorden has got more fishermen, but also more fishing with fixed gear and then usually hook nets, as the council here calls it. This type of fish reduces the number of spawning fish to Tista, which is a new salmon eel in the Iddefjord area, but also to Enningdalselva. Large-scale projects with the release of fish have been taking place for many years. Secondly, the location of rivers — close to large population groups — constitutes an increasing pressure on fish resources. It is a clear wish that the Council of State, which was so exemplary when it came to getting rid of the ‘gyro’ in Enningdalselva, might also be personally involved with the Swedish authorities in order to have the Convention revised in line with the rules applicable to Norway in general, and in particular with the type of gear that can be used and in relation to the number of days that can be fished. So my question is whether the Council of State will personally engage in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1804	I have already taken the initiative to revise the agreement following this case on Bullaren and the risk of spreading Gyrodactylus salaris. Negotiations with Sweden will now continue. The starting point for Norwegian dealers is that they want to protect salmon even in the spring and want to avoid, among other things. hook yarn and other type of yarn, in line with Norwegian provisions. You can then prevent the salmon from being caught in the fjord, and it can rather be fished up in the river. That's what's meant to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1811	Case No. 1 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-12.ana.ud867e1822	There is no record.
