ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e49	The representatives of André Kvakkestad, Ranveig Frøiland, Thore A. Nistad, Lars Rise and Ingvild Vaggen Malvik, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The representative, Bjørgov Froyn, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e69	On behalf of the representatives Sylvia Brustad, Grethe Fossli and myself, I would like to promote a private proposal on national ownership in the energy market and extend the deadline for the sale of State power.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e74	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e88	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. In addition, the representative Jan Simonsen shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines of reply following the speeches by the main speakers of each party group and five lines of response following contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e99	I would first like to thank the Committee for its constructive and good cooperation and creative and good input into the work on this major and important matter. St.meld. No 7 for 2002-2003, truss training in a new era, is a matter of broad perspectives, perhaps more perspectives than in most of the things we deal with in this room. The message is a reform for strengthening and renewing baptismal training in the Norwegian Church, a new commitment to faith training. It is very gratifying that there is a broad consensus in the Committee on the need for and the need to strengthen belief training, that it will be renewed, and that both the Norwegian Church and other religious and life-seeing organisations will be provided with the means to achieve this. Over 1,000 years, the Christian cultural heritage has permeated our society. We see it in the language, in the literature. We see it in music, in visual arts and in our social institutions. This is a valuable tradition. This tradition needs to be continued, renewed and clarified. The main responsibility for this must lie with the Norwegian Church, which still has 86 p.m. of the population as members. But if the Church is to succeed, it must be provided with resources, given room, so that this important work – the most important work in the Church – can be given new strength and the necessary renewal. The notification provides a framework for this priority to be possible and there is broad support within the Committee. An overall committee stresses the importance of training children and young people in their own faith. Knowledge and knowledge of your own status are necessary for the development of your own identity and for the security of your own identity. A joint committee also stresses that this is particularly important in a society of increasing cultural and religious diversity, such as ours. Thus, the need and desire for enhanced and renewed religious training, as expressed in the Communication, is supported by an overall committee. It's very joyful. 86 pst. So the population is members of the Norwegian Church. We have a broad people's church. If we are to continue to have it – and most of us do – we must make sure that children and young people know what the Church stands for, what it teaches us, and what it has meant to us over 1,000 years. We have to make sure that the Church is given the opportunity to continue to be a broad people's church with content. Strengthening and renewing religious training could provide this opportunity. The Government is supported by a broad majority of the Committee for most of the points in the Communication, although a varying and variable majority. A broad majority notes that strengthening religious training should not lead to changes in the place of the CRL subject in school, neither to its extent nor to its content. This is also linked to the Committee's support to the Government that belief training should not take place within the school's regular training period. I would like to stress that it has never been suggested in this case that this should be the case, but due to the debate that has taken place, this is nevertheless emphasised in the vote. The Committee is aware that faith training shall not take place within the training period. The Committee is equally clear that the activity can take place in the school's premises other than regular hours of education. The primary thing is, not least I think, that the communities will want it to be, that the training takes place in their own premises, but there must be opportunities to use school facilities. I am very pleased that the majority in the Committee supports this. In many places in our diverse country, the school is the only imaginable facilities; in some places, the school is also a branch house. In my opinion, it would be pointless if these premises could not then be used for activities under the authority of the congregations. An important element of the message is equality between all religious and life-vision organisations. Appropriations for the Norwegian Church in this area will lead to equivalent amounts per year. members are also assigned to other organisations of faith and life. This is reflected in both the Law of 13 June 1969 on trudom societies and the Law of 12 June 1981 on the Grant of Life Seeing Societies. It is surprising and surprising that a minority in the Committee, the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen interpret the law so that other organisations do not receive appropriations. To call faith training a special task, as the minority does, seems very sought after to me. Faith training is the main task of the congregations! The Committee also supports the Ministry for Local Governments not to impose new expenditure obligations in the context of the reform; full funding must be provided through government appropriations. This also applies to expenditure resulting from the corresponding increase in other life-vision organisations. Here too, funds must be allocated over the annual government budgets. At the same time, the majority of the Committee is aware of the 250 million economic framework. kr is to be regarded as a norm and a framework for its scope. The appropriations shall be entered in the annual budgets within the limits of an overall assessment. The majority of the Committee also supports the Government in organising the experimental and development work as a project for the first five years. We believe that the arguments for this are good. A common strategy can be developed, it will be organised for the coordination of the various tasks and actions, and work will be well anchored regionally and locally. The Committee has been very concerned about the localisation of religious training and the need to provide room for local adaptation and flexibility. Personally, I believe that this is a prerequisite for success. The majority of the Committee is clear on the emphasis on local anchorage, local adaptation and flexibility. In relation to the message, we emphasize this point more strongly. This is not about school education. This is not school education, classroom education and hour counting. 315 hours is a standard of dimensioning, not an hour to be counted, which each child shall have. Faith training must be clear to the whole human being and to different senses and aspects of life and life. Knowledge and knowledge of one's own faith shall appeal to both the brain and the heart. Local creativity, local wealth of ideas and local capacity for pedagogical innovation are challenged. The key to success is here. In line with the Committee's strong emphasis on local anchoring, the Committee does not support the proposal to establish project management positions at the level of the Bishops. We believe that the bet, both economically and in the form of positions, should be made in the individual congregation. The majority of the committee wants the department to return to Stortinget with proposals to amend Section 36 of the Church Act. This paragraph provides an opportunity for confirmation instruction to be given during regular instruction periods. Since faith training should not take place during normal teaching time and the confirmation instruction is part of the faith training, we consider it necessary to reconsider Section 36. I refer you to the committee's recommendation in Roman Numeral Decision I, and ask you to correct a mistake here. The recommendation of the Committee in Roman Numeral Decision I is replaced by the following: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend § 36 of Law 7 June 1996 No. 31 concerning the Norwegian Church.’ At one point, the government parties come together with the Central Party in minority. This relates to the relationship with the school leisure system. The majority believe that faith training should not take place during the school leave period. I must admit that this amazes me. The School Leisure Scheme began in the 1990s with a wish that the children participating in the scheme would be offered different cultural activities within the scheme. Many are the teams and associations that offer children in the school leisure system around our country. Associations and other life-vision organisations have also made their offerings. Now, all of a sudden, the congregations and others who are engaged in religious training are going out, while everyone else is going to be able to continue. This is amazing. I don't have the power to see the unfortunate merger the majority claims this will lead to. Here it is said that children can participate in activities on a voluntary basis through agreements concluded between the individual community and the local scheme. The scope of the activity offer should be as broad as possible. Refusing to provide such an offer within the scheme is restrictive and regrettable, among these churches in the Norwegian Church. On the part of the Right and the other government parties, we are pleased with the position that now exists, and of the broad majority that is behind it on most points. However, I am amazed that the Progress Party is not in the majority. From our side it would have been desirable. It has not been on the will. But everyone who reads the setting will see that the starting points have been very different, even with agreement on both goals and visions. For us, it has been important to give the Church the opportunity to get started now, by giving the Storting the necessary framework conditions, giving the Church the opportunity to develop the good offer. We are not willing to wait for user studies that need to be researched for interest in a product that has not yet been developed and in which no one knows its content. In this case, it was easier to find a common position with the Workers' Party – and especially with SV. Now the challenge lies with the Church and with the individual church. The challenge is to develop a good framework for religious training that embraces a broad range of groups than those who are now applying for the work of their children and young people. Should it be possible to follow up with the desired appropriations in the years to come, it is a prerequisite that the Church succeeds in giving the religious training local anchoring, now wide, and provide the training with content that appeals to the heart and brain of the many children and young people. Only then will we receive a strengthened and renewed training of faith. Finally, I refer to the correction in the recommendation of Roman Numeral Decision I.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e144	The representative Jan Olav Olsen has pointed out the typographical error in Roman Numeral Decision I, which will be taken into account when voting. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e149	In this case, the majority have proposed that belief training should be part of the offer of the school leisure arrangements. The government has always argued that within the SFO it should be allowed to offer various offers, such as music, sport and even then religious education. Already in 1969, the Stortinget decided that belief training would not take place in the Norwegian school. We got the CRL business instead. Why, then, does the representative Olsen think that it is right to use the time in the school leisure system for religious training when faith training was denied in school already 35 years ago? What has changed the position of the right hand side?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e156	It amazes me that the school and school leisure arrangements here are mixed together as if it were almost the same lap house. The school is in a way the main course and the school leisure system as the dessert for those who want it. The school leisure system was introduced, inter alia: in order to allow different organisations to have their activity offer. Here, there should be a natural place for congregations, organisations, life-vision organisations and others who want to provide a leisure service to children. I have to admit that I see no inconsistency in that we have taken this out of school and given it room in the school leisure system. On the contrary, it is quite natural, in my view, that the communities and life-vision organisations can also get into the school leisure system, which is a voluntary offer to the many children who want to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e161	The representative Jan Olav Olsen from the Right stressed that the government parties have found a common platform with the two socialist parties, the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party. Can the representative of the Right summarise the main effect of having a common platform with the two socialist parties in this matter? How has it affected the government's reform structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e166	In many cases, it may be important to emphasise ideological differences between socialist and non-socialist parties. In this case, I think it is really important to bring forward ideological aspects other than those that go on socialism, conservatism, liberalism or what it might be. Here there has been a common desire of all the parties in the Committee to say something that supports the Government in relation to visions and objectives. But with regard to the concrete points to get this work going, to get the reform going, and to equip the Church and other churches so that the work can really start, it has been easier to reach agreement with the SV and the Workers' Party. I can't see that we've in any way changed the platform here, except that we've come to an agreement both on how the project is to be organised and on the emphasis that we want to have on the local anchoring and flexibility. I believe that this which is now being adopted, and this setting, will enable the Church to really start this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e171	If the President has understood correctly, the choice here is between the old and the new Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e174	First, I would like to commend the rapporteur for a well-worked job and a good political craftsmanship. However, I need to clarify some of what the case rapporteur said in his main post, that the setting is largely a support to the Government's arrangements. The rapporteur has also rewritten this in the media in recent times. As I experience it, it is clear that the majority – and since I am a member of the majority, I would like to share my experience of it – have in many ways reversed what was the government's arrangement, a bit on my head. We have turned from what I would call a centralized way of thinking about, over to a more grassroots movement, that it should grow out of the churches and not from the top down. There have been some consequences for the setting. Does the rapporteur agree with this understanding of the position?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e181	I'll say that the government here has been supported by the main thrust and trend of its message, and that is the big vision and the goals. At the same time, it is quite right, as the representative of Mr Requam said, that in some areas the Committee has a somewhat different emphasis in its position. I don't want to go so far as to say that we've turned something around in my head, but I'm going to admit that we've moved the center of gravity something. Now I've always had problems standing on my head, so I'm glad that we've gotten rid of that exercise, but that this can be a different emphasis on some things, I'm sure. But it does not, in my view, prevent the intention, the vision and the desire to strengthen and renew baptismal training, not only the majority of the committee, but an overall committee that supports it. In my opinion, it's the most important thing, and it's also the most important signal to the Church, that this is an overall committee that supports it. So I just have to say that that's right, as the representative Rikham says, that we have a different emphasis in some areas, but to say that you turn it around in your head, I don't want to be on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e189	The President agrees that it is natural to keep disciplined exercise away from this debate. So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e194	I want to start my post with a clarification: the Workers' Party wants a congregated and open state church and a people's church. We agree with the need for baptismal training. But we've had a majority for some changes. It has been said that ‘we have moved the centre of gravity’. The Norwegian Church faces major challenges, both substantively and organisationally. The government has just put down a state/church commission, such as shall assess the relationship between Church and State. The government's Common Political Basis in the Sem Declaration highlights the duplicative training. The road to baptismal training, i.e. education and education aimed at helping children and young people to acquire the Christian faith has been long for the Norwegian Church. Changes in the 1969 school law rendered the school no longer responsible for training in the Christian faith. I therefore understand that many engaged in the Church have been and are impatient. But my question is, has the government chosen the right procedure? I don't think so. Today’s setting indicates that all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, agree with the need for baptism training, that it should start now, and that there is a need to strengthen and renew belief training for all religious and life-see organisations. The notification provides a very comprehensive training, both economically and organisationally, without any kind of screening or investigation of what members of the Church think or what members think should be included in the concept of ‘baptism training’. The Labour Party believes this is the great weakness of the message. What we have to deal with is a rather outdated screening carried out by KIFO, which shows that a majority of the baptized do not want help for the mission. At the same time, there has never been any study on the termination of the planned baptismal training. The referenced study from KIFO had several questions in addition to questions about Christian education. Nevertheless, faith training will receive an allocation of 250 million. kr in an escalating phase. I understand some of the critics who believe that such a great reform should wait until after the state/church question was settled. Baptism training is about the kind of role the state should play in relation to issues that the religious and life-view societies are working on. How we politicians choose to use common resources is important, and gives a signal of what priority is given. It is common in my view to be able to provide documentation that can justify the use of resources. Health Minister Højbräten has stated – rather boldly indeed – that baptism training could not have been started with a worker party government. It's simple rhetoric that I'm not going to waste time commenting on. I just want to point out one thing: the rush is wrong. The main difference is that the Workers' Party would have set greater requirements for monitoring and needs. Just at a time when many seem to perceive the Church as a ceremony master, it is important and natural to have the argument both in terms of granting issues and in terms of organisation. In response to questions from the Committee on Culture and the Church on 17 February 2003, the Minister for Culture and Culture stated that there are so many uncertainties about baptism training that there is no basis for calculating the budgetary impact. Then it is no wonder that there is doubt about the estimates in the message. In the case of the SFO, in my opinion, it would be an unfortunate mix-up to make the SFO part of the religious training. Furthermore, it will also provide an unfortunate distinction between children of different religions. How is a six-year-old supposed to understand such a distinction? Although it will be optional, this is a good argument that belief training should not enter the SFO. The school shall not be an arena in which the most competitive view of life becomes. In the extension of the debate on access to doping training in the SFO period or not another comparable issue emerges. The majority of the Committee has made a proposal in order to eliminate the possibility of continuing to take part in the course of school. The majority have made a proposal to amend Section 36 of the Church Act, where this is permitted. The Labour Party will not go that far in this round. This may be a change that should be considered. The working party is open to assess this scheme. Perhaps this is an amendment which, when all aspects of the matter have been examined, the Labour Party could also be involved. Our appeal against today's concrete proposal to ask the Government to submit proposals for the amendment of the church law is that we believe that it is going too far. The Labour Party thinks you're moving too fast. We know that such a change of church law will have consequences, both practical and organisational — and it affects the individual confirmation. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee has not assessed at any point how the Church should deal with a group of firms where, in the light of the baptismal training, there will necessarily be major differences in knowledge, based on a belief that 50 pst is given. the other half have not been trained in faith by the confirmations. Here are many questions that the Labour Party believes you need to be able to provide a thorough assessment of, and then we will review §36 of the Church Act again. I also want to comment on an inconsistency in the majority's argument when, in their comment on the firm's teaching, they say the following: ‘If there is still an opportunity to add this part of religious training to the school, there will be a mix of roles that will be unlucky and likely to reinforce the contradictions between different religious and life views.’ Thus, the change in Section 36 of the Church Act is justified by the fact that there may be an unfortunate mix-up, and that it can reinforce the inequalities between young people, between firmaments. In view of this, the majority have asked the Government to propose that firm training should not take place during school hours. Then there must be reason to ask the majority: why is the risk of this unfortunate mix-up not present in the SFO system? We know that a lot of six-year-olds come to SFO at 6:00 p.m. 8 a.m. They see this as part of their school day. They'll be there until noon. 10, goes into school, comes back to SFO. For a six-year-old, an eight-year-old, a ten-year-old, there's not so much difference in where you are. Why will belief training within the SFO not lead to a strengthening of the differences between the different groups, between the different religious communities? So it's the majority's view that within the SFO is baptismal education of the good, a sensible system that is not bad, and that does not promote contradictions between religious communities. In primary school, on the other hand, it is totally unacceptable – we cannot have company education there. It will be unfortunate and conflict-making. In concrete terms, this means that for the confirmations, faith training is unfortunate when it is done in school, but for the third grade – or fifth grade for that matter – faith training is quite fine if it takes place within the SFO period. It is said that it is inconsistent, because after all, constables are so mature that they can more easily distinguish between school and religious training that they can take a stand for this. It is my reputable claim that the distinction between school and religious training must be more difficult, to say the least, for small children in the SFO than for a 15-year-old firm. I look forward to the majority clarifying and justifying how such an inconsistency has been achieved. On the part of the Workers' Party, we are quite clear that belief training should not take place during the opening hours of the School Leisure Scheme. I would like to address the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV that faith training should not be carried out during the opening hours of the school leisure system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e240	The representative Eva M. Nielsen has taken up the suggestion she herself made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e245	The Labour Party makes a point of what they claim is a lack of need assessment for this reform, and they say, among other things. in a note: ‘These members have noticed that there is no evidence of the need for parental religious training.’; When 80 pst. by the parents let their children baptize and by the baptismal spring promise to raise their children in the Christian faith, what kind of stronger need assessment is it when the Workers' Party wants? In addition, it says: ‘These members therefore consider that the proposed approach to the notification needs to be reduced in scope, both financially and in terms of staff.’;» At the same time, it is a matter of majority voting. What does the Workers' Party even mean? Are you in favour, or are you against the present attitude?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e264	It is interesting that the representative Voie refers to that very study, because the result of the study was that the majority of parents said no to religious training in the Church. They said no thanks. They wanted support from the Church, but not to have organized religious training for their children. And when you know that, it's natural that you lay down at a lower economic level, unless you organize this training in relation to what the government has come up with. That's exactly what the Workers' Party thought, that you should have a much more thorough review and a need study, to find the right level and figure out what it would cost. The Council of State has, of course, told the Committee that there is so much uncertainty about the economy and needs that it is difficult to answer this question on their part.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e271	It's going to be a little bit of an extension of the first one. I have seen that the Workers' Party is part of the majority of the government parties and the two socialist parties. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party has, in its observations, shown some concern about scale, dimension and costs. What has been decisive when the Workers' Party has chosen to join this? What changes have been made by a majority, making the Labour Party's concerns so subdued that they choose to join this majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e280	Yes, the Labour Party is a member of today's majority. When it comes to the question of why we didn't think it was crucial to have a need-to-know study in order to be able to agree to religious training, it was because the Workers' Party sincerely wants faith training. We want it to get started now. The party also says that they want a need-to-be study, but they want to slow down the start-up of the training. From our point of view, it was essential to start training in faith, but we regret that we have not had a proper needs study before doing so. But it wasn't crucial for the start-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e289	Eva M. Nielsen mentioned SFO in the context of faith training. I'm standing here with St.meld. No 40 from 1992 to 1993, a report on six-year-olds in school provided by a workers' party government. It also says about school leisure arrangements. In the committee setting for this message, a majority said: ‘In the opinion of the majority, school leisure arrangements should be operated in close cooperation with the music schools, teams, associations and other local cultural activities.’ The report states what cultural activities exist in the communities, where music, singing, drama, associations, etc. have been rammed. – and offers from associations and local organisations. Why has the Workers' Party changed its mind so that no associations can now participate in the SFO?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e301	It is obvious that within the SFO you should be able to have a good and close cooperation with both teams, associations and the community to which the SFO belongs. And we fully support that sports teams should be able to get in, that they should be able to have drama groups, and that you should be allowed to play music, but we think there is a difference between playing football and conducting religious education. We welcome the Church and the congregation into the SFO for activities, but we do not want it to be perceived in any way that when parents send their children to SFO offers, children should also have to choose between religious education or not. There's a difference between religious education and kicking football. That's where we put the line, along with a majority of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e306	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e309	This is an important matter both for all citizens of society, for us who are parents, for the Norwegian Church and for us politicians who are going to try to be community builders. Therefore, it is a pity for the government to present it in such a bad way. The Government asks for a commitment to contribute an unspecified amount over a trial period of five years to a reform suggested by the Government will cost at least 250 million. kr per. year in full operation. The government's proposal involves enhanced and reinforced baptismal training up to and including 18 years of age, with more than 300 hours of training. A total of 200 hours is spent in the 0-10 phase, in the 3-10 phase, directly with children 180 hours, including the introduction of a so-called junior confirmation at the age of 10. The report mentions that between the ages of 3 and 6 years the content is Sunday school, everyday school and family worship. In the next phase, 6-10 years, the main content is referred to as a ‘church school’. The confirmation period shall be extended from 45 hours, as it is today, to 65 hours. The offer for young people after confirmation will be 20 hours and offer, among other things. management training and discussion forums for questions of belief and life. I spend some time on this summary of the notification of the reform content to show how comprehensive and comprehensive the proposal for the reform of baptismal training really is, at least as intended by the Government. I further point out that the basis for the notification is in NOU 2000:26, from the so-called Baptism Training Committee, which describes the same content, and which has calculated that the economic impact of the proposals is as much as 550 million. kr. The majority of this is due to the fact that, in the opinion of the sample, the reform will require 1 300 annual works. A participation of 70 pst is assumed. at 70 pst. of the annual coals participate in the training provision throughout the training period. It is a very ambitious objective. The Church/State Committee, appointed by the Council of Churches in 1998, had, in September 2001, prepared a partial report on the baptismal training in the Church. I understand that the Church itself does not have a dissenting view of what was presented by the Baptism Training Committee. The government has deposited a price tag of 250 million. kr – i.e. half of what the Baptism Training Committee has estimated. By describing the content and price tag, I have tried to show the scope of this reform. The Progress Party believes that the reform is important. We fully share the view that baptism training is a central task for the Christian Church, and find it positive that the reform should be locally anchored and embrace widely. However, the Progress Party believes that it is important to distinguish between the tasks of the school in relation to Christian education and the baptismal training of the Norwegian Church. We also refer to the organisation of baptismal training in the other Nordic countries, where baptismal training takes place at home or in cooperation between home and church. The Progress Party believes that in Norway, too, baptism training should mainly take place outside the school and be clearly the Church’s responsibility, in cooperation with the child’s superiors. At the same time, on the part of the Progress Party, I would like to stress that the school should continue to be based on the Christian purpose paragraph of the Training Act. We stress that a strengthening of the CRL profession in school should be carried out in parallel with a state investment in baptismal education through the state church. This is why we are also promoting proposals for strengthening the CRL profession in primary school and also in teacher training for this subject. Strengthened and expanded baptismal training as a reform in the Norwegian Church should not be part of the educational provision provided by the school. Training shall take place outside the school's field of responsibility and premises and be carried out by the Church in a manner that makes it clear that the Norwegian Church is responsible for training and is responsible for the content. The Progress Party also wants to remove the access to confirmation education that is open to it in Section 36 of the Church Act. We propose both that the baptism training should not be carried out during the opening hours of the SFO, and that there should be a concrete change to the Church Act § 36. The Progress Party believes that limited baptismal training in childhood and secondary school age by the Norwegian Church is desirable. In our opinion, a user survey should be carried out to identify the interest of such an offer and also to identify the extent to which interested parties wish to be trained. The Party also points out that there should be a distinction below and above 12 years of age with regard to children’s ability to participate in the training or not. So we are promoting proposals for user surveys. Changes in the primary school law in the field of baptismal education and changes in the Christian discipline in school mean that the school is no longer responsible for baptismal education, and that the Norwegian Church, as a state church in Norway, has been given increased responsibility for baptismal education. This responsibility has not had the Church the resources to follow up. Therefore, enhanced baptismal training in the State Church System should, in the view of the Progress Party, be financed by the State. We believe that this is a task which is actually a special task directly assigned by the State and which is therefore to be financed outside the framework of the law on grants to life-viewing societies. We assume that future allocation does not automatically involve the granting of funds to other religious and life-seeking communities, and that regulations need to be clarified and supplemented, if necessary, on this point. If necessary, the Progress Party also believes that legislative proposals for this need to be promoted. An extended offer of baptismal training shall be voluntary. The local community shall be free to organise the teaching. The Progress Party believes that the State should finance the Church's baptismal training through the designation of an amount per. children participating in it until there is a distinction between church and state. The Progress Party believes that this reform, which is a clear and important reform of the Norwegian Church, underlines and reinforces the need for a separation of church/state to be implemented as soon as practicable. Once again, we are impatient to investigate and prepare the economic, task and organisational aspects and consequences of a division, and in line with that view we are also promoting a proposal for such preparation this time. Party of progress does not want to print a blank cheque. Although the Progress Party also has faith in the intention and vision, we cannot give a clear signal to such an extensive project that is then to the degrees based on good intentions and pious desires. The Party cannot recommend the launch of an experiment which has not clarified more about the content of the offer, whether this is a content sought by parents, children and young people and the extent to which such demand can be expected. I will take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. We will vote against the committee's recommendation for Decision II. We will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposal of the SV and the Workers' Party to explicitly exempt the school leisure system. Since we do not agree with our own concrete and specific proposal to amend Section 36 of the Church Act, we will of course vote subsidiaryly for the committee's recommendation for Decision I in the vote, which raises a matter related to looking at that wording.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e353	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e358	The Progress Party has signaled that they believe baptism training is a central task for the Church, and that funding should be directed by the State. But I want to ask a question about the credibility of this. The party of progress has clearly signaled that they want a distinction between state and church, and should it become a reality, this will naturally also have economic consequences for the Church in the future. The representative of Sortevik has stated that the appropriations for baptism training could have been used in another way and has clearly indicated in the media that baptism training must face tough competition for other good purposes in the coming budgets. And then I have a question for the representative of Sortevik: does he think it's natural that baptism training is funded by the state, when he wants a distinction between state and church at the same time? I believe that what the Progress Party here is doing is trying to ride two horses at the same time, that they really don't want a baptism training in the direction of the state. Because if what we are adopting today is to become a reality, we are totally dependent on giving money in the future budgets, and the Progress Party knows that well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e367	There are two important prerequisites for an understanding. One is that you read what is written about the matter, and the other is that you listen to what is said orally. We are very clear that we want to implement a separation state/church, and we are also clear that we think it is too late. We are clear that as long as we have today's arrangement, it should be a financing with a single price. That's also why we reserve for this large amount and this blank check. I'm going to watch my back to advance questions from future speakers here, but it's clear that it's central to how much you're willing to spend on this big, undefined attempt. Then we are also clear that once we have made a distinction, the funding of the baptismal training must be within the general framework given by the state to a freed church, and from the general framework, a freed church must dispose of its own funds as it deems best.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e376	I have two questions for the Progress Party. The representative of Sortevik has been very careful to stress that baptism training must take place outside school, regardless of school. It shall not be part of the teaching. In fact, I believe that everyone agrees – if you read both the message and the setting. And then I would like to ask: has the representative Sortevik read something that I have not been able to read, namely that there are some people who have come into this matter or thought that this should be part of the school, part of the education or be done within school time? That's the one question. The second thing I would like to ask is what the representative Sortevik and the Progress Party put into the term ‘special task’. They write in the setting: ‘These members further consider the task to be a specific task.’ For me, a special task is something that kind of adds up to what's the main task and is not so important. For me, this is the Church's most important task. What is the definition of a specific task by the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e390	In my summary description of what the reform contains, I try to find out that the expression school is used in several contexts in relation to different age groups. If it's the case that our fear that this is mixed with school should be unfounded, then I don't understand the resistance to making a decision that it shouldn't be a mix-up. It would be the best and most clarifying clarification you could get, simply to state that baptismal training is not to be mixed with ordinary school activities. When we have used the term ‘special task’, it is to emphasise that we do not want this automation as the majority incorporates into current legislation, which means that those who represent other religious and life-view societies sit and wait for a check. We don't think it should be automatic in it. Once we have moved out of school this important task of baptism training and Christianity – which is the bearer view of life in Norway – and said that the Church should have resources to do this on its own, we must make sure they get it. But that doesn't mean that others are going to sit up in the triplet.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e399	This was a strange post. Firstly, Blackevik polemizes against something that the majority does not stand for. He's polishing against the government, and he's talking about a certain number of hours, and he's talking about how many millions, etc. He obviously cannot have read the majority vote. I wonder when he sits on the committee that he has not read the position, because if he had done so, he would have to polemise against the majority, since at least in central areas the majority has a different position from that of the Government. Then he's very much in favour of the Church being allowed to do religious training. The progress party is very much for this, but not at the present time. It may be later, after a user investigation has been made. My first question to the representative of Sortevik will be: At what time does the Progress Party see that the Church can count on the support of the Advance Party, that studies have been carried out, etc.? Then he has a section in his article on strengthening the CRL subject. Does it mean hours, more Christianity, or what is it really he's talking about when he's talking about strengthening the CRL subject?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e408	The President must remember that, after the amendments to the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time is one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e411	With regard to ‘a strange contribution’, there is once again an opportunity to point out that there has obviously been a turnaround in what was the content of the reform by the Government and what will be adopted here by a majority, including the following: The representative of SV Rikvam is included. We are therefore told that there has been a significant change in the content of what is adopted in relation to what was the Government's position. So it was a question of when the Progress Party will be involved. We will join when the Government has put more work into clarifying how parents look at the need to get this help and get this support. We don't see that it should be a postponement in infinity. It can be done with reasonable time consumption. Here it's primarily about the willingness to do a little bit better footwork and a little bit more footwork than what you've been willing to do so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e418	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e421	First, a little comment on the last line chord shift. The Committee has done a good job. It has been done a great deal of work on the part of the Committee. I am still surprised that the representative Sortevik has not understood that adjustments and changes to the original arrangement have been made, even though the original arrangement is still at the bottom. When the representative asks the Government to do a better footwork, as he called it, we think that the footwork done by the majority of the committee should also be good enough for the Progress Party to enter into a dialogue, not just to say that it is very positive, without taking the consequences of such a position. With this setting we complete what was started in 1969, where it was stressed that the school's Christian science is not part of the church's religious education. It's a principle matter, because we're making the final distinction between school and church. A natural consequence of this principle approach is to amend the provisions of the Church Act that confirmation training should not be added to the school and use the school's hours for this training. Because that's what we're talking about, that's to spend part of the hours that are intended for other subjects for confirmation education. The majority give strong leadership in the comments, while asking the Government to come back with a proposal to amend Section 36 and remove the home that is there to add the confirmation education to school time. The pragmatic question becomes whether the State should have a financial responsibility to facilitate the Norwegian Church and other religious and life-seeking communities to do the task of giving religious training. We can have a different view of the role that the Church should play in a society, and not least of how the Church has managed its responsibilities throughout history. As seen in a historical light, the Church's political history is not just a cause for pride. Despite this, it is an indisputable fact that the Church has shaped the development more strongly than most other actors. The Church has been, and is, one of our most important cultural policy actors, both at good and bad. There is probably no other single institution that has had such a strong influence on what we proudly define as our cultural heritage. The Church is still strong in the population. 80 pst. of the children are baptized. A large part of the youth is confirmed in the Church. We choose to perceive this as a need for people to feel belonging and to be part of a religious and cultural community. If this is a correct interpretation of why people choose to baptize their children, the Church has an important task in helping people into this community. One must give them the opportunity to share in what binds the community together, and give them the security of what the Church stands for in meeting other beliefs and views of life. As long as we have a state church, it becomes the task of the great community, the state, to add the right to the Church to do the task that the members, as we interpret it, expect it to do. It is this recognition that underlies our support for government funds being put into a systematized belief training under the direction of the Norwegian Church. We are a pluralistic society. Different views of faith and life live side by side. For us, of course, everyone should have the same support. Everyone shall have the same opportunity to exercise faith training within his/her religious and life-view society. We cannot therefore accept the favoring of a particular religious community. It is therefore important for us to stress that the system of state resources should be used against all religious communities. The Committee has made major changes to the composition of the ministry. What we might have reacted most strongly to was that the arrangement had a very schooly character -- a thought for hours, a defined belief training for a certain number of hours, and one had central plans. What the majority is doing, is thinking decentralization, thinking in other ways. In addition to thinking hours, this hour was also divided by different ages — the childhood, the intermediate and the youth stage — and the hours they were going to spend during this period were 315. There was a cost framework defined by the Government. The majority of the Committee is aware that this is a norm and not something that we are able to decide on at this stage, because in that cost framework certain assumptions were made as to how many would use the offer. The government was concerned with teaching materials, what kind of teaching materials were going to be included in belief training, it was concerned with new positions and building up a new bureaucracy at the level of dioceses. All of this we have tried to reverse, as I perceive the Committee's attitude. We have said that it is not appropriate to create a new bureaucracy or to get more new administrative jobs. The money we're able to plough into this, we're going to go to the churches, to those who're going to do the religious training. I feel that we have underlined very strongly. The centralist thinking we haven't killed, but at least we've said it should be a little different than the government wanted it to be. I said instead that we have tried to turn this around. That doesn't mean we've turned it all over our head, but at least we've had to turn it around pretty far, and I'm very happy about that. We stress that the initiative should be based on local needs and priorities. There shall be a variety of arrangements in which, on the basis of their assumptions, the different congregations choose arrangements adapted to their needs. We're saying it's going to be a trial period, but we don't commit to anything. And to Sortevik, there's no blank authorization in any way. It's in the annual budgets we're going to put in money – that's what all parties have to do, because as long as we have annual budgets on the Storting, that's where we're going to deposit the money. We're proposing a five-year trial period, that we start there. There shall be a central steering group in the Council of Churches which has coordination responsibilities, which shall not govern the congregations, but which shall coordinate the good input, the good ideas, so that they can then be distributed beyond those congregations which are not always equally creative in terms of ideas. If such a trial period is to be of some value, it must be of certain magnitude. I think the majority are very clear that when we go into a five-year trial period until 2008, it must have a certain amount, a certain number of members must at least have the opportunity to participate. That means that we commit ourselves to decommissioning funds so that this experiment can be done in a proper way. But at the same time, I would like to stress that other communities that may not be involved in a central experiment must, of course, be involved if they are able to do so by their own means. It's important to stress that we don't put any restrictions on the number that get involved, but we're going to join and add a framework that allows a certain number to participate in this. We say that these means should be earmarked from the central level – and that is important – and go out to those who are involved in the experiment. But for us, it's also very important to look forward. When the trial period is over, we imagine that these funds are going into the municipalities through framework transfers. We have a municipal church in this country. That's where the activity is. The church activity is neither in the Council of Churches nor in the Department, but it takes place in the churches, in the municipalities, and it is therefore in our opinion right to add this to the framework grant. We're not going to have a new Sunday school, it's important to underline, but we're going to have a variety of offers that are inclusive, that provide room for children from families that have different backgrounds but that will still be part of this community, and that will take advantage of this educational offer. We also say that there should be full state funding during the probationary period. The funds we spend will cover the project, and the municipalities cannot be expected to pay extra money. It's awfully important to underline. Now we get to take responsibility centrally and say that when we initiate such a five-year trial period, it's the state that will fully fund this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e469	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e472	Since the SV and government parties agree with most of the things in this setting, it might have been unnecessary to take a line. But I would like to thank the representative Rikvam and SV for their good input and contribution to reaching this broad consensus. I also want to ask a question in relation to SFO time. SV is a member of the majority who say that this should not be carried out during the opening hours of the school holiday scheme. With the history of SFO time and what was in the decision in 1992, it surprises me that this would give the wide range of activities. And especially when we from Eva Nielsen got a line of reasoning on why not use SFO time, and that this was almost viewed as part of the ordinary school, there is reason to ask: is this also SV's reason? Or does SV see that, after all, there is a difference between SFO and ordinary school?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e479	We have a principle approach to the problem. I was hoping you'd understand that. This is in many ways, as I said before, a completion of the distinction between school and church. Confirmation training is part of this — it should not be an opportunity to carry out confirmation training at school. I am very surprised at the Labour Party's attitude to this. I can't understand how it's possible at all to get to the position they've done if they've approximated this in a principle way. We see SFO as part of the school – it is part of the training law that there should be SFO provision. We see this as part of the responsibility of the education sector, an organisational responsibility. And with this principle approach, it's natural for us to say that this training of faith that the Norwegian Church is going to conduct, and also other life-vision societies, should not be allowed to be spent in the teaching time that the school has. We have a purely principleal approach to this, and it's important for us to emphasize that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e491	As far as I have been aware, SV does not have the expressed concern for the economic and organisational concerns that the Workers' Party has and has expressed. Why doesn't SV have that? Could the answer be that the arrangement, which is now supported, has been so diluted, reduced and limited that all concerns have been met? So I've actually taken the trouble to browse the program of the Socialist Left Party for 2001–2005. And a lot of browsing in spite, I didn't find anything about church and nothing about baptism at all. Has SV found the faith? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e498	Yes, we have a strong faith, but there are questions about what we believe in! That is not what is important in this matter. I had hoped that Sortevik would register my introduction, where I put great emphasis on the Church's role in a historical perspective. We take the consequences of it and are committed to being involved in financing this part, while also financing other religious and life-view societies – I must stress that over and over again! There'll be so many strange concepts. Dilution-diluted relative to what? There's no dilution at all in relation to anything. This is about making the arrangement better – doing it differently from what the Government has set up, and at the same time making it significantly better. So a term like "diluted" we can't use in this context. As for the economic part, I expect the Progress Party to agree with SV and the other parties that it is in the annual budgets that we are going to contribute money to this. So we'll see what the result of that is. Moreover, it is clear that the government parties are applying to the Progress Party in terms of the economy. And then we'll see if it gets normal and how much money there will be for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e509	It is quite clear that SV has been constructive in dealing with this matter, and that is very good. And we've agreed on a good attitude. We got an introduction here from the representative Rikham about what the Church means to the community. It is also known that SV stands for strong local autonomy. SFO is the responsibility of the municipalities. Today it works in such a way that in some places there are agreements between the SFO and parents to have so-called faith training or baptismal training, i.e. that they have one hour a week, for example, with Bible stories. Some people choose music schemes, others choose sports schemes. Is that how to understand that sport is good, but not football, e.g.? Or that music is good, but not block-fluted, that church is good, but not the work of Christian organizations in the SFO? How does SV define this when it's going out of SFO?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e520	This is a little bit of a misunderstanding. It's not going out of SFO, but it's not going in! Per. It's not in today. What we are now adopting is a completely new scheme that has not been tried before. That some communities are doing this in the SFO period is something we know and register, but now we're adopting a systematized training, and with this arrangement it's not going to come in. I've said it before, in terms of the principle approach, that this is a final distinction between school and church. We need that, because there are students with different beliefs and different views of life. We are very much to make the good common school, where everyone is going – unlike the Christian People's Party, who wants to weaken it. When we're going to establish the good common school, we need to say clearly that belief and life-viewing societies are not going to be allowed to put their part of the teaching into this time. That's our starting point. Then I just want to add that SV is constructive in all things. [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e529	The President will note that once you've adopted 1 minute's lines, you have to have 1 minute's lines! The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e534	I want to do the psalmist’s words to mine today: ‘This is the day that the Lord has done; let us rejoice and rejoice in it!’ For today the Stortinge adopts a reform of faith training in Norway, as Bishop Wagle has said, is the greatest church reform after the introduction of the confirmation in 1736. In the meantime, until 1969, the school has been the baptismal arena for Norwegian children. With the introduction of the CRL subject in 1997, there has been a widespread need for a more systematic system of belief training. It is a milestone we are rounding today by now adopting this reform. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the opportunity now given to the religious communities to provide children and young people with training in their own faith. In the context of the evaluation of the CRL subject, all parties indicated that support to the religious communities should be assessed by follow-up to the Baptism Training Committee, NOU 2000:26. A few weeks ago I was in Søndre Slagen Church with 70 9-year-olds who had spent the night in church and had a tour with the priest, Bishop Laila and parents during the weekend. It was an enthusiastic crowd that took part in a crowded church that day. Of course, there have been priests, catechists, deacons, and other baptists who have taken Jesus' words seriously: "you baptize them... and teach them to observe all that I have commanded you". Baptism and baptism training belong together. Much has been dependent on voluntary assistance and some fires. The Sunday school union has been faithful in its work. The IKO has communicated material, held a course, and the Tripp Trapp scheme has given many fathers, parents and their children. Over 60 pst. by four-year-olds, ‘the Church Book’. When the Bondevik I government in 1999 set up a public body to work on faith training, the time was really overdue. It was a good piece of work that was done in the Andersen Committee. But it had to be a Bondevik II administration before we were able to draw this up in a big message, which we are dealing with today. The Government wants a reform in which the aim is to strengthen the training of faith, for, as stated in the Communication: ‘True training provides a basis for developing and being secure on their own identity’.» Not least, this is important at a time when different cultures are getting closer together. In Norway we carry with us a Christian cultural heritage, and the Church is the foremost mediator of Christian faith and tradition. Every 80 pst. of all children are baptized in the Church and 70 pst. confirmed, shows the proximity most people experience to the Church. The Christian People's Party sees this as a user survey itself. For this is not a passive tradition, but an active act in which the Norwegian people participate. Many take part in faithful work, but more staff are needed to get a more systematic approach, as the baptism training adds up to. New jobs are therefore needed, which means that recruitment is important. This applies, inter alia, to: priests, catechists, deacons and other workers, e.g. in non-governmental organisations working with children and young people. This is also a matter for the higher education institutions. But the parents are the most important employees. They have to get the courage to be principals, because homes are the most important learning places. Therefore, more church-home cooperation needs to be facilitated. The Church Council shall have overall responsibility during the project period, but all shall have a local anchoring. It does not preclude the use of professional resources at the level of dioceses. Most of the earmarked appropriations should go to the churches. As a result of the Act on Threat Societies and Ymist Others, an economic investment in baptismal training in the Norwegian Church will lead to the same increase in state support for other religious communities per year. Member. It is regrettable that opposition parties are promoting proposals today that will deprive Christian organisations of the opportunity to spend time in the SFO for religious training. This works in some places today as a good, voluntary scheme, among others. in Stokke, for which a letter has also been sent to the Committee. In the treatment of six-year-olds at school, we read about the SFO and cooperation on local activities for children. There are the congregations mentioned as part of this. Why, then, should the Stortinge decide that some voluntary measures are not good enough? A national reform programme is being adopted today, the aim of which is to provide systematic training for all baptized children aged 0-18. The Church Council and the Bishops' Meeting write that they have expectations that the Storting will contribute to the realization of this crucial reform of the people's Church. This work has been carried out. The first five million. kr is granted on the budget of the year. Now the Church must show that it not only will and can, but do so, for the church that does not survive does not survive. King Harald said at the church meeting last autumn: ‘A secure anchoring in one’s own faith and in one’s own cultural traditions is a prerequisite for an open and trusting dialogue with people who have a different outlook on life and belief. There must therefore be an important effort in the years that will give priority to baptismal training.’ I fully agree with that and am pleased with the attitude of the committee that exists here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e573	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e576	The representative of Scarbøvik has been concerned with the possibility of faith training in SFO. My first comment is that with the government's undermining of the SFO and the removal of subsidies, this can quickly become an un topical issue. I believe that the Christian People's Party still stands for a mix-up, which we have now cleared up in terms of the rest of the school. I have also registered that the Council of State has stated that it is a good model to include belief training in the SFO. It is strange at a time when some municipalities already have an SFO offer as part of a comprehensive school offer. I have understood the Clemet Council so that she also sees a development in that direction for the rest of the school. It should be clear that there is a difference between the offer of music, song, sport and religious education – I stress the training of faith – whether it is in the Church or in other life-vision societies. It will be an offer that is not voluntary and that will prevent children with different backgrounds of life from participating. It undermines a voluntary offer that should be possible for everyone. I assume that the Christian People's Party now takes note of the majority's view and is rather concerned with strengthening the SFO without training of faith.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e589	The Christian People's Party will not undermine the SFO. The funds allocated to the SFO have been proposed in the framework grant, so that municipalities can better organise their finances and offers. It is the proposal on which it is based. For the Christian People's Party, SFO is a voluntary offer. It's not part of the school. As it said in St.meld. No 40 for 1992-1993, as I pointed out earlier, it was intended – it is very important – that local organisations in the environment at home should be able to participate in the work of the SFO and be a natural part of children's everyday lives. It's a voluntary arrangement. It's implemented in a very good way today. We have received feedback that this works. Parents want it. Why should the Storting take it from them?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e596	I have realized that this is a matter of great importance for the Christian People's Party. Strangely, then, when this important reform of the party is won out with political concessions to the Socialist Left Party and to the Workers' Party. What adjustments have been made to the Government's arrangements to ensure support for this from the Socialist Left Party? On what points in the matter has the Christian People's Party now met the Socialist Left Party to secure a majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e603	What has happened in the relationship between the so-called socialist parties and the government parties to which Sortevik refers is that we have received a majority for the Government's religious training scheme. There is a new reform that is being launched and for which money is to be allocated by earmarked means. This is what's happened, first of all, that we've got a majority. I am still surprised that the Progress Party is sitting on the outside and has a waiting-and-see attitude. Some adjustments, as mentioned earlier, have been made, inter alia: we refer to Section 36 of the Church Act. It's been up in the past, and we're asking the government to look at it again and come back to the Stortinget with adjustments in confirmation education and school time. I'm glad we stress that it has to be a local anchor. This with the dioceses has been specifically removed from the message, but that does not mean that cooperation with the dioceses is also excluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e612	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e615	It's kind of interesting to sit here and listen to the debate, where one of them is going to try to construct some kind of mismatch between the Socialist Left Party and the other parties that are behind the majority of the Government. I think it's a strange way to go into the matter. We have heard the rapporteur give a presentation of the work in the committee. I want to stress that we have somehow shifted focus from what the Storing Message says. We say that this should not be a bureaucratic system, and we say that there should not be posts around the level of dioceses. It's actually teaching consultants who can do that. We're also saying that it's not going to be detailed from the central level, and then that the main thing is actually to let go of the ideas and let it flourish around the churches. We agree with the main intention of the big message, and it is good for the Church that it has a clear magnification and a broad majority to deal with. When I talk about clarity on the part of the Biggest, it is first and foremost that the majority emphasises that knowledge of their own faith and outlook on life, that identity and belonging are important for creating safe people. The anchoring in one's own faith and values is important in meeting others with a different view of life. Therefore, the majority believe that it is necessary to strengthen belief training at all levels within the Church, and of course also within other life-vision organisations, as permitted by law. The majority is also clear that these 315 hours as mentioned shall be a dimensional standard. The training shall be organised and shall focus on content and width, and not on counting hours. It is the local community that will develop and organise the religious training and that will set the framework for its content. The national organisation of projects over a five-year period shall primarily involve and motivate and guide the local communities. They shall have an overview of the experimental and development work and, through the evaluation work, disseminate experience to the communities locally. So we do not want a bureaucratic organization with project leaders in every diocese. We believe that the project funds should be used primarily for local actions. The Workers' Party and the Advance Party call for identification of needs. I believe this is starting at the total wrong end. Faith training in our church results from the baptism of children, where the Church commits itself with parents to providing training in the Christian faith. And if the Church is not able to do this task, it will fail both the parents and the baptized, and indeed its responsibility as a church. This is where the Storting goes in and takes responsibility and will start a project over a five-year period that will give the Church framework conditions so that the Church's obligations can actually be fulfilled. When we talk about faith and faith training, we're not talking about some kind of intellectual learning or school. Faith is primarily about participation and belonging. Therefore, faith training is primarily about creating different meeting places in the Church where children and young people can feel at home. This is where the challenge lies for the Church: to reach the broad layers of baptized – not the first ten percent, but maybe 70 pst. It is this challenge that the Church must take when the Storting now facilitates a project over five years with funds and with a stepping-up plan that allows it to flourish around the churches. It's been more than 30 years since the school's Christian education ceased to be the Church's religious education. It is therefore high time that the church was able financially to do the task it is assigned to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e634	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e637	I think that the Rune Skjälaa in the same way that Elsa Skarbøvik drew a picture of a situation where we are facing a paradigm shift: now finally the Church is going to conduct faith training. If that is a correct description, the Church has not taken its task seriously in the past. We must not make it so that this is a paradigm shift. The Church has done a job in the past, and hopefully a real job, if they've taken their responsibility seriously, and I choose to believe that they've done the best they can. This also underlines that in order for the Church to do its job, the state must enter. It's a very attack on the state church, and that's good enough. But we must not now try to draw the picture that the Church has not done its job before, and that the state is obliged to finance extra funds for this baptismal training.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e644	Well then, the church has taken responsibility for the baptismal training within the framework that the Church has had. But, as the representative Rikvam knows, the Church from the 1970s onwards has had about zero growth in the number of church positions for teaching, etc. The church has not participated in the same escalation as, for example: other public sector. It is quite right that the Church has taken its responsibility, and the Church knows that it has, but I believe that the State has a great responsibility to frame the Church so that it can live well and carry out its mission in a good and proper way. Here I believe that the state has for many years failed the Church by giving it too poor framework conditions to carry out the mission it is set to perform.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e649	The representative of the Skjälaa is strong and clear in the belief that there is no need for a user survey, that the figures available for the number of children who are baptized and confirmed carry a strong and clear message that there is a high demand between these two points – it is clear and clear. I then assume that the representative of the Skjälaa has also clearly clarified what is going to be of resources, and can be equally clear on what the Center Party will put into a five-year trial period to ensure that this is successful. I also want to add another question, since I have 26 seconds left. Is this a good arrangement for the Church to finance its major job needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e656	To take the last question first, whether this is a good system to meet the Church's job needs. Training in Christian faith is a very important task for the Church. For every baptized child, the congregation commits itself to helping the child to live in the Christian faith with fathers and parents. That's why this attempt over the five-year period we're putting up with, the opportunity we see to give the Church work opportunities to carry out the mission it's actually set to accomplish, namely to teach baptized children in the Christian faith, to help them live in the Christian faith. Then I can just say that the Central Party in the coming state budgets will follow up on this to which the committee puts up, and ensure that the Church will get a step up in relation to the baptismal training.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e663	I listened with interest to the good articles of the Schjellaa about the training of faith. What makes me take a line is a little bit of the line exchange that was between the Skjælaa and the representative of SV, who was about making resources available to the Church in relation to faith training. Now the representative said in his previous reply that the Central Party would feel obliged to follow up on resources. I would like to ask the representative, Mr Schjellaa, to clarify a little more in what way the Central Party believes that the Stortinget should now follow up this big message with resources as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e669	The stuttering message provides a frame of approx. 250 million. kr. When one asks the Church about the need for a job, investigations show that it is actually much larger. I believe that it is realistic to put on the escalation and volume that the Storing Message adds up to. For the Central Party, it's important, as a party that supports the Church of State, and that wants a broad and open people's church, to also enable the Church to be. In fact, investing in religious training in a broad sense with a lot of activities around the churches is an important tool to help people find their place in the Christian community in the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e676	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e679	I very much agree with the start of Rune Kjillea on the post. This is a major debate with frequent exchange of lines on a matter on which we really agree very much. I think the broad consensus is also good in relation to the mission we have in this area. We see that we have a new CRL subject, which has changed the training of children in this area. It's important to take this inward. For the Left, which is also the distinction between Church and State, this is an important part of society's grip in order not to become a society completely without religion. I believe that safe children are children who are safe in their faith, safe in their knowledge, and who also have knowledge of the others. Knowledge of faith is also an important part of the formation. That is why I think it is a very strange proposal that the Progress Party has in relation to needs studies. This is not a case of a sick home, where you should check for good or bad meals. We in the Left have a great sense of ordering the /executive function in many areas of life, but a check on what bids you think it is important that your child learns, or what other life experiences you think are needed is a rather strange attitude to the term «faith». I think the concept of faith is important in relation to the fact that children should have a safe foothold and know where they belong, and what values they have grown up with, but it is also important to combine it with the knowledge that the CRL profession gives in relation to the faith of others. I'm elected for this city, where children have a very complex background in faith. Therefore, it is important for children to have knowledge of their own position, but also knowledge of the position of others. There we have different roles based on the role of the religious community and the role of the school. So I have to spend some time on the SFO. For me, this case has actually become death for what was the dream of SFO, which many of us were critical of how it was going to be. Those of us who have spent most of our lives on voluntary child and youth work were a bit critical of what was the Workers' Party's dream about SFO, which was to be the place where all the children's leisure activities were to enter, so that when you left the SFO, you could spend the whole evening with Mom and Dad in the living room. We didn't believe anything in it. The reason we didn't believe anything about it was because we know who's doing the volunteer child and youth work. It's Mom and Dad. And when Mom and Dad are at work, they can't do the voluntary child and youth work in the SFO either. The SFO dream of the Workers' Party and all the glossy brochures that came with it, we have now finally managed to put a line across when dealing with this matter. We have to admit that the vision of the whole voluntary work on children and youth into the SFO is not possible. The SFO has become something completely different. What I think is strange about the majority's attitude is that you're afraid that there's going to be too many attitudes into school. I think this is about to destroy something about the living communities we've had. We see the same thing in relation to the fear of letting in, for example. political youth organisations in the school yard, the fear of having attitudes, the fear of having values and the fear of breaking attitudes in the public school space. Later today, we're going to discuss the law on high school. It's very important that you don't get into schools with different attitudes, because the public school should have room for everyone. But at the same time you have to make sure that no one is allowed to enter the school room with attitudes, values or beliefs. Then we've capitulated, then we've given up the SFO dream we once had, and got something completely different. I have great faith in local solutions, that community and local schools can find the solution to this. I think that's probably the most marked difference that's here, and it's perhaps an ideological breach in relation to what was the great vision of the SFO for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e696	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e699	I was given a visit, so I must be allowed to give a little response. It would have been fun if you were to ask your parents to check for which of the ten commandments you wanted help to teach their children. But to be a little serious, it's actually so that I almost didn't think what I heard. I thought that the Left was a party that was very busy having dialogue with the inhabitants. In this case, dialogue is perhaps the most important thing in society, dialogue between home and church, and I thought that the Left would be busy asking parents clearly to be advised about what they could imagine helping in the development and rearing of their children. This is also deep within the parental mandate of individual parents, deep within the cooperation between home and church, which should be the main basis of organized baptismal training. I actually thought that the Left would be concerned with both asking parents how they wanted help, if they wanted help, and in what way they wanted help.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e704	We are very much to ask parents, talk to parents. The difference between the Left and the Advance Party is that the Progress Party believes that it must do so by means of a state form, while I think it should be part of the dynamics of the local environment. If someone starts a project in a congregation and does something, and no parent meets up, or you meet parents in other social forums that say that this I think was really stupidly done, I didn't want to do it like that, I think a community is developing a project, because people are talking together, because communities are going through a dialogue and not state-made form. In spite of all this, I think it's even more important than in the case of a hospital or other situation. So it has to do with how we're going to organize our society. I have great faith in the dialogue, I have great faith in the members of the congregations of the individual religious communities, and I have great faith that there can actually be good solutions without adopting a state form from this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e709	There's reason to be a little concerned when the representative Skei Grande makes it so that her dream of faith training and the SFO has been crushed, and that's what a majority has done. The big vision of SFO is shattered. Then my conclusion must be that the Left Party and the Workers' Party have probably totally different visions of what the SFO should be. We have a vision that SFO is going to be inclusive, it's going to be a community, and it's going to be values. But values aren't the same as religious education, they're not equal. We don't want an SFO where you open the door to the influence of small children into a religious direction. I'm glad that the SFO is going to be an open offer with many activities, but it shouldn't be a mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e714	An error and a straight and a dream within 1 minute. Error: I said it was the Workers' Party's dream of SFO that was broken. It was the great vision of the Workers' Party about what this was going to be, which is broken, because there's something quite different that we're talking about. I fully agree that we have a dream about SFO in being able to be active in relation to the community. But the big difference between the Workers' Party's dream and our dream is that we actually have some faith that you can find good solutions locally, that you can find out locally through dialogue: what should you hear about and what should not be heard about here? But the Labour Party believes that it is in this room that you have to find out what belongs at home and what does not belong in the SFO. I have much more faith in parents and teachers in the individual school than the Workers' Party has. I have faith that you can find the solutions that are suitable for those students and for the people who are there. And why should one sector be excluded?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e719	We then record that the question hangs in the air. Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e724	Fortunately, there is a broad consensus that it is important to keep the Norwegian Church as a broad and converging church. It is also in this context that we need to see the Government's message and today's setting. At the same time, the Church has repeatedly stressed for more than 20 years that baptism and training are two sides of the same issue, and that training of baptized children is a prerequisite for a continued church of our country. The government-appointed selection that conducted the baptismal training in the Norwegian Church said this: “Only the church that survives will survive.” That’s exactly why this matter is so important to the Church and also to other religious communities that will benefit from this reform. But the matter is important for society as a whole, regardless of the individual's attitude towards matters of faith and outlook. Good baptismal training will help to convey and maintain our cultural heritage. In addition, children and young people will be given important input into building their own identity, becoming familiar with the basis of their own faith and even better able to develop an understanding of their own tradition and culture in a society characterised by multicultural coexistence in an internationalised and globalised world. Respect and tolerance for other people and other cultures and beliefs are most easily developed among people who are safe in their own values, their own faith and their own cultural and value anchoring. Our church and our Christian cultural heritage have been a stabilizing element in our society for a millennium of time. So far, baptismal training has been based on extensive use of voluntary work. All the hours spent by volunteer workers in the Church and other religious communities to communicate our cultural heritage and contribute to the fulfilment of the baptismal vows of parents and fathers at the baptismal fountain are difficult to measure. But although there are still many who contribute in a very valuable way to volunteering, here we see, as in general in society, that it is becoming more difficult to engage and recruit sufficient staff based only on volunteering. Therefore it is absolutely necessary that the Church and other religious communities be given some better opportunity to recruit and reward their employees, even within this important area of their field of work. I would like to stress that the financial resources made available to the assembly during the trial period should not be replaced by the voluntary efforts already undertaken by the assembly, whether in the form of hard work, voluntary work or in the collection of funds, but in addition to all this and in particular to the quality improvement and expansion of activities and opportunities. If this is to be achieved, the baptism training, both administration and implementation, must be anchored as closely as possible locally. In this way, the present position of the Committee is clear. As much as possible of the means and activities are channelled to the local level. It's in the churches we have our belongings, and that's where the training is going to take place. I would also like to stress that in this context it is important to develop alternative pedagogical methods and a variety of teaching approaches that can provide inspiration and opportunities for engagement from different children and youth environments. In this area, as in many other parts of the difficult art of teaching, the need for variation in method and content, activities and forms of expression are important elements in order to reach the relevant and different target groups. Therefore, there must also be transparency in the Church in order to be able to use different forms of expression — from song and speech to dance, drama and ballet — in order to mention some current forms of expression that can both convey the good beast and appeal to demanding children and young people in a day-to-day way where competition for their attention, time and commitment is enormous. In the Committee's work on this matter, it has, in particular from the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, been problematic that one does not know the need or demand for this type of training, and that one thus does not know the extent of the necessary financial appropriations. The Party even proposes that user studies be carried out before launching and testing this baptismal training project. When over 80 pst. of our children getting baptized, this basically shows a massive, broad and fundamental active commitment to raising their children in Christian faith and morality. In addition, studies in several congregations show that a large majority of parents who allow their children to be baptized feel that baptism commits them to a Christian assignment. This includes, inter alia: the desire to send children to Sunday school, to give them the opportunity to participate in church children's choirs or to participate in other activities of the Church. I hope that this pilot project will develop many good results and alternatives that can spread and benefit children and young people who are baptized in the Norwegian Church, as well as in other religious communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e743	Over the course of several decades, Norwegian society has evolved from being relatively homogeneous to becoming more and more multicultural. This gives us new challenges that the Government wants to meet offensively. We want to take cultural and religious identity into a multicultural society. This may include: to rethink when it comes to dealing with threat training and identity. The government believes that children and young people need to be trained in the threatened or the way of life for them. This is how we want to facilitate an open and multicultural society, where one meets one another in security on its own religious and life-sight identity. I am pleased that the majority in the committee agrees with this. They wrote in their comments that the Norwegian Church must carry on, renew and concrete this task. For the Norwegian Church, this means that she is able to take on the responsibility for her training, by saying that the subject of Christianity in the school is no longer baptismal training. As a result, the social benefits for training as a result of the introduction of the CRL subject will now be replaced. It was the Stortinget that asked the Government in 1996 to decide to propose the legal right to baptismal training. At the centre of the message is the reform of the baptismal training in the Norwegian Church. The government wants to give the Church the opportunity to be and develop as a living church of people where values such as closeness and human dignity are bearing values. This will in turn contribute to reconciliation, care for disadvantaged people and loyalty beyond national and cultural borders. This means that training of those who are deeper becomes important. Baptism and baptism training belong together. No church is divorcing without providing training in the faithful ones. The government emphasises that the training must be locally anchored and conducted in cooperation with the home, which is the most important truss training arena. The width that all depths represent must be reflected in both the form of the training and the contents. The government sees this as both a commitment to and an incentive for the furtherance of the popular church. I have noticed that the majority in the committee believe that the training must focus on the width, scope and local anchoring more than in hours each person participates. They further state that cooperation with voluntary organisations is important for a local closure in reaching the width of the deeper ones. The Committee agrees with the Government that there must be a clear distinction between schooling and truss training. Dipping training shall therefore not take place during the course of instruction at the school. It is also the Government's view that the threat training should primarily be conducted in the local to the respective threat communities. Some places may have a few local agreements that the schoolhouses are used for practical purposes. But the fundamental distinction between schooling and threat training is important. The Committee is divided into the question of whether threat training can be conducted in the context of the school leisure system, as the debate has also clearly shown. It is important to find organisational solutions that meet at home, as well as one that is clear that threat training is the cause of the threat society. Local solutions must meet both of these considerations. The proposal that trust training should not be conducted at all as long as the school free time system remains open will in practice mean that such training cannot take place until after 5 p.m. This, I believe, is unfortunate for young families, who are rightfully watching at the time when children and adults have together. There will be an increased time gap between families of young children if this is to be done. The government has named a selection to figure out the relationship between the Church and the state. The selection will provide an important basis for further thinking around the Church's organisation. Regardless of the future type of bonds between Kyrkja and the state, the most important thing is happening today. The threat training reform implies that the Norwegian Church and other threat communities are strengthened in the task of delivering the content of the threat. This will bring tangible repercussions to society as a whole. The Church must be strengthened in important tasks and areas of teaching, material development, church music and deacony. Reform is at the same time a major challenge for the Church. The reform will contribute to and promote developments and experiments that go beyond the performance and service lines. It will also challenge the Church to cooperate widely across occupational categories and educational environments. I am very pleased that the Stortinget, as all parties did not accept the Advance Party, today joins the message of trust training in a new time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e763	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e766	I agree with the Council of State in one thing – yes, many things, but one in particular: the training of the Church will be a major challenge. And we have full confidence that Kirka will solve that challenge in a good way. As many have stressed, faith training is not an obligation; it is not a mandatory arrangement, but an offer of help to parents, an offer of help in faith training. In other words, by virtue of its quality and relevance, the system will have a large impact field. Estimated participation has been central to the debate on training, and different measures and different percentages have been used. Reference has been made to different studies of different quality. My question to the Council of State is: can the Council of State be a little more precise at this point? Has the Council of State set itself any target, percentage of a figure, in order to say that the baptismal training has been successful? For example, it should be 50 pst. participation in training to be successful, or 30 pst. or 80 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e775	It is a difficult question the representative asks me, and I really do not think that she expects me to give a consistent answer. How many will receive this offer is hard to say. So it was from the government's side that we put up for trial. It also has the Storting agree that there should be trials around. I think success, the number of people who want to participate, depends on the communication we can get between parents and those who are going to provide a gift of trust training, and probably also on the variation in the training. For children and young people today have a sea of different kinds of things they can attend, and therefore the Church must actually compete with all the other offers that children and young people have. And I think we're dependent on this being an offer that arouses the interest of children and young people, but also on the good communication between parents and those who make the offer, so that parents want the child to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e780	I have a brief quotation from the reply dated 17 February of this year from the Council of State to the Committee: ‘If the project period is to provide the necessary experience, it must be wide-ranging. In order to achieve such a width, a significant share of the above 250 million is required. the crowns shall be disposed of for the first five years.’;» Does the Council of State still mean this? Does the Council of State believe that the majority that is now investigating the matter through the Storting is fulfilling the wish and the point of view quoted here from the Council of State's letter of reply?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e790	Some people have said that there are very big changes in the settings relative to the message. I'm not in agreement with that. What one has done is the jobs at the level of the bishops, which one has called a strong red tape of the work. I agree that most of the resources should be used locally. But the fact that one has joined a steering group centrally without having a coordinator in each diocese is not for me a very strong change in the setting relative to the message. When it comes to the economy at large, it's obvious that we have to fight for money for trust training in the years to come, so we have to fight for all the other funds in the budget. And it's the annual budgetary process that shows how much we can get into this area. I don't feel that the setting – which is not being trodden through today, but which is being signed today, which I am happy about – has given me the chance to fight for money for trust training in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e797	I get a little worried when the council doesn't see the difference in what was her arrangement, and what the committee is now dealing with. It makes me a little worried, but it may be too late to be worried now. Governments mentioned this with the voluntary organisations. That's right. But she did not quote what is perhaps most important, and I can help her with that. The Committee says: ‘The Committee would therefore stress that non-governmental organisations may be part of the training insofar as they respect the training requirements for inclusion and diversity.’ That's important, and you have to include that in the further work. So to what's my question. The majority of the committee is clear that Section 36 must be amended, and we ask for a matter to be brought back quite quickly. Can the Council of State say a little about the timing she sees for this, and does the Council of State also agree that Section 36 must be amended in such a way that confirmation education cannot be added to the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e811	I want to tell Rolf Reikvam that the most important thing for me is the basis of the message and what we are going to give to our children and young people. I feel that I am stuck in the settings relative to what was our message. The changes that have been made here in the Storting, I can absolutely live with. I think it will be a good job for children and young people. I agree entirely with the remark about voluntary organisations, but I have taken the view that this will happen. In the case of § 36, I do not have a timetable for working with this yet. The representative, Eva M. Nielsen, has raised some of the objections. The representative Eva M. Nielsen represents Finnmark, while Reikvam represents Akershus. There are two different weekdays in Finnmark and Akershus. Nielsen may be busy with the confirmations that live far away from the school and the church in Finnmark, and that will have major problems if we go rough on the proposal, as I know SV would like. I'll evaluate this. Actually, it's sometimes that will be harmful if we're too square. I have the sense of what Eva M. Nielsen has said in this way. But I will follow up on what is agreed here in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e820	The founding NOU, NOU 2006:26 “... to an open life of faith and trust” – a great title, by the way, that is quotation from a psalm – provides a cost framework of 550 million. kr. The cancellation notice provides a cost framework of 250 million. kr. When we were working on this setting, we strove hard to figure out what led to a laying on less than half of what the Church says. What I would like to challenge the Council of State is: What kind of professional basis does the Government have to lay down a level below half of what the NOU adds?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e827	I almost answered Rune J. Skjelleaen by saying, "Have you not heard about the Ministry of Finance? But I won't do it! When we went through the NOU, which of course had a main objective in relation to how this was to be done, we also had to think that there should still be voluntary work in the threat training to be provided. The Church and its organisations are watered down to do a lot through voluntary organisations, but we also need a strengthening through the various professionals in church sounds around us. I still think we're forced to appeal to a good deal of volunteer work to get this done. We have a tradition of this in the Norwegian Church. This is a tradition that we don't have to kill with public funds. I also think that our struggle to get enough funds for this reform will be pretty tough as it is, with the 250 million. kr that we have seen in five to ten years. We know that in all the reforms adopted by the Storting – and I can name them in Flange – we have problems meeting the financial requirements for years on end. I expect that this reform will also happen. But we've seen a goal, and we're going to work on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e836	After all, the Council of State was boasted at its national meeting, as a confirmation that government participation was important, because it gave a big boost to religious training. It was also presented as a training for most, with 315 hours from 0 to 18 years, with an annual cost of 250 million. kr, and with a significant employment effect. The attitude I see as, I suppose not to say a shaving, but at least a downward adjustment of the Council of State's proposals and what she really wanted to have power to do. The Labour Party has stressed in particular that what we have been given as a basis must be reduced to an extent that is organisational and economic. And the council should notice that. There is no one, as far as I have seen, who has committed himself financially. In response to the Committee, the Council of State also stresses that there are very many uncertainties, unknown factors, and concludes, as is common in other secular matters, that there is a need to assess in the light of the budgetary situation in question. We agree on the intention, but when the Council of State interprets it as a support for its proposal, it must read more thoroughly. And we'd like to contribute with Scripture interpretation. I think that makes sense for a good follow-up on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e847	I have read the setting, I have read it carefully enough – and I say in fact that I am happy with the setting. When you're in a minority government, you can't dictate through big business. You are required to cooperate with other parties to obtain solutions. It's our fraction here in Stortinget, along with others. Working Party and SV. I would like to pay tribute to the constructive nature of ours. So I know very well, and I also believe Vidar Bjørnstad knows – that when it comes to the annual budgets, it's an annual fight. I have so much experience in government and also in Stortinget that I know that it's going to happen every year. In fact, I also know that quite strong forces in the Workers' Party are occupied by the Church's economy. They have even presented Document No. Eight proposals in relation to the Church's economy. We've had a debate in the last year that goes on church economics, that slips my heart, because I've seen an engagement far beyond my own party traps. And that's good. Therefore, I also believe that the debate in the follow-up to these matters will be constructive. We have a good basis today. That the progress party doesn't want to be, I think I'm completely incomprehensible. But it doesn't do anything as long as we have multiple numbers for what's the main basis for this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e857	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e862	I have a little summary in the end. I repeat from the Progress Party that the intention and vision of the matter are good, but there is a lack of dimension, lack of clarity of content, and not least a lack of clarification of demand. I also record that the government parties have their interpretation of what goes on. And the supporting parties in the case – The government draws support from the Socialist Left Party and the Workers’ Party – have a distinctly different interpretation of what comes through this hall in a community. So the representative Voie from the Right pointed out that the user survey of which the Progress Party is engaged is really unnecessary, referring to what others have also used as a reference, namely that many parents choose to baptize their children. He referred to Sunday school and Christian children’s choirs. It is a completely different activity from that described in the message on page 11. It is also the case that parents are primarily required to choose how to solve this baptism task to which they commit themselves, what help they want, and what content this assistance should have at different stages of the child’s growth. Therefore, we regret from the Progress Party that there has been no more willingness to consult with parents before starting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e873	It has been a pleasure to follow this debate and to experience that an overall increase sees the need to strengthen the training of faith in Norway. We agree that it is important to foster youth to a secure identity, in the Christian faith and with the Christian values that have shaped our society for 1,000 years. Then there's going to be plenty of respect and tolerance to meet those who have a different faith or a different view of life. This is also a joyous day for parents who want faith training for their children. And not least it is a joyous day for employees in the Church who have this responsibility today, but who are struggling with understaffing. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to facilitate that the promises made in full publicity in connection with baptism are given real opportunities for fulfillment. Let me remind you of the following obligation, taken from the baptism ritual: «Together with this congregation and our whole church, you are given a sacred responsibility: to pray for the child», says the priest to parents and fathers. Then he continues to say "teach him" and "help him." So the responsibility is shared between the community and parents and fathers. What we're doing today is for congregations to have more opportunity to fulfil their responsibilities. The parents have already given their consent in the baptismal act that the congregation has a responsibility for training in Christian faith and tradition for their children. And they have even received a promise from the local congregation for help. It is therefore strange, as has been pointed out here several times, that both the Progress Party and the Labour Party are so committed to conducting user studies to identify the parent’s wishes still apply. The parents have already made a promise about this at the baptismal font. For the Christian People's Party, it is therefore very important to stress that we take the wishes of the parents at the baptismal spring seriously, and we will therefore strengthen the Church's ability to give their children their faith training in a new and challenging time. We see no need to ask again. We want to arm the churches and encourage parents to receive an extended hand from the Church for help with training in faith, in a society of increasing cultural and religious diversity. The question of manning will be absolutely crucial for the success of this effort. And with my background from Northern Norway Church life, I know very well the difficulties of recruiting for church positions. I would therefore ask that church education in the north be given special attention in this context. Finally, the millions we spend on this will be doubled again, in the form that it will recruit volunteers to the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e890	I feel the need for a small summary at the end of the debate, which I think has been exciting and enjoyable compared to the fact that there is so much agreement on what are the main lines and the main objectives here. I'd like to comment on a couple of points. There's a lot of problematization around this with SFO, which is completely natural. The representative Eva M. Nielsen pointed out what she called ‘inconsistency’ in relation to the majority’s views. I'm sorry I can't see this inconsistency. As I said in one of my previous posts, here we clearly distinguish between what is the compulsory school and what is the voluntary SFO offer. I cannot see that there is any inconsistency in that we want belief training not to take place in the ordinary school, but that it can take place as part of the range of activities and offers to be offered in SFO time. In this way, I think there is a greater inconsistency in saying no to religious education in the SFO, but yes to confirmation education in the school. I also think that the term «religion education» in SFO time for me is something archaic and bears the mark of something old-fashioned thinking, to say it this way, even though I am not of the most modern myself. But here we are talking about a training of faith, which is something quite different from teaching religion. It's about training that's going to play on the whole spectrum of educational instruments, which is something quite different than teaching the old and perhaps somewhat negative meaning of the word. Then the representative says that there has been a significant change in content. I can't see it. It is clear here that the Committee has carried out a shift of centre of gravity in some areas. No one can be surprised that there has been a process in a big-time committee, which is both creative and constructive. Then there has to be a development. And I am pleased with the state council's statement that she thinks this is a good attitude, and that this is really going to live with for the council. I have in fact never been in doubt that this will be her life well and well and hopefully for a long time. I also want to repeat something that is important: now it is the Church that gets the challenge. The decision that Stortinget will now make gives the Church the opportunity to truly renew and strengthen its faith training. It's a huge challenge, and I want to stress it strongly. Here it is important to wish the Church happiness in all possible ways. For that is the work that is now being done in the Church, and what is being done and designed there in relation to the content of this, which will really affect what appropriations will come in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e903	I am pleased with the broad majority of organized religious training in the church, which is now being shown through this debate. Trophy training is important for several reasons. It's part of giving an identity of its own faith, it's part of giving knowledge about our cultural heritage, and it's making sure that the people's church is built up. The religious training is very well justified in the Church's baptismal mission. When baptizing children, there is also a responsibility for training the contents of baptism. The church has always been involved in religious training, it has operated a confirmation system, confirmation training, yes, it has also started schools and continues to run a number of schools. But today we need a new organization and renewal, and that adds up to today's debate. I have listened to the debate. The challenge for the Storting and the Council of State is to follow up with resources so that the visions can be followed up in practice. The Christian People's Party priorities in the area of the Church are clear after this debate: It will be religion education that has first priority. However, what has surprised me in the debate is the lack of a clear church policy at the Progress Party. The progress party takes a laid-back position and a waiting position. The church's mission is perceived on the basis of use and demand, and user surveys are requested. To me, this seems to be a rather market-based church view, not based on the Church's baptismal mission. It alone is good enough to implement a faith training reform. Church policy must, of course, be based on the Church's mission, not on the current Gallup or demand. I think the Progress Party also understands that when they think about it. Now the Church has had challenges. The Church's challenge is to create good activities that children and young people will end up doing. But it is clear that the granting authorities also have a responsibility to provide the Church with the framework conditions necessary for them to reach the young people with their message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e918	Let me first underline that I do not believe that the majority need the help of the Progress Party to drive exegesis of the text. I think that we who make up the majority are going to be able to interpret what we've written, and what we've agreed on, so that help I feel like I don't need. Then I also feel that parts of this debate have been too pompous. It becomes too violent for me when we hear from the Christian People's Party, among others. that this is the day that the Lord has given, etc. I have understood Scripture so that our Lord has given us every day, so there is nothing special about this day. So part of this becomes very pompous, and I also feel that it's a little contempt for the Church's history. Because it's a picture of us being at a paradigm shift, and we don't. The Norwegian Church and the other religious and life-seeing communities have been training throughout history, and they have been able to survive in the way they have. So this is nothing new. And there's no new assignment here in Stortinget now giving the Norwegian Church, but we're giving it an economic opportunity, a better economic opportunity than it's probably had in the past. It's important to stress this, because otherwise it becomes too violent for me. I don't need to do it more violently than it should be. Then I get a little worried when the Council of State on my question about §36 gives expression to listening more to the minority and constantly refers to what the minority has said from the pulpit. The majority have made a clear statement, and that's what the Council of State has to deal with. And if she doesn't do it properly, we're going to get back to it. So I expect that we will get back a proposal to change Section 36, and that we will also be able to draw up the distinction between school and church. This is what we are now in many ways about to end, and I hope we can do that in a good way. Then to the KRL subject. I'm sorry we didn't get a majority to change the CRL. I wish we had taken up some of the balls we had in the process of evaluating the KRL subject. Now we get a new evaluation in connection with the L97. Now I haven't read it, but it might have the council. We will probably get some new recordings and therefore need to look at the CRL subject in a new context – not get a strengthening of the CRL subject, but go in and look at the construction of the CRL subject. We had good suggestions when we considered the evaluation, and I expect that they are still the same when we have a new evaluation. The state councils can take their starting point, and then we can get a good CRL science, too. Then I will end by wishing the Church good luck with great and exciting challenges. I hope that we can take advantage of diversity, and follow up on the leaders that the majority have given in this position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e931	This has been an interesting debate to listen to. Rolf Reikvam has thoroughly and thoroughly explained SV's vision and what SV stands for. The faith training that will now be adopted is quite different from the government initially provided. But there are still some points that I need to pick up and score. The Council of State said in its statement that it is unfortunate that the majority is in favour of belief training not being given in the SFO. This is a point that is fundamentally important for SV. The SFO shall be an offer – a meeting place – for all children. Well, cultural activities like dance, drama, theater and getting into the cultural school are important, but it's quite different that the Council of State wants belief training to enter the SFO. Trolling is an activity that not all children can participate in – it is just for some of them – which will seem both segregated and non-inclusive. The majority will also have a decision to change the course of confirmation instruction. It shall no longer take place during the school's period of instruction. Diverging church and state is an important point for SV, as well as that we also want to change the CRL subject in school. Unfortunately, we're the only ones in favour of this. If you're going to have credibility in this reform, it's important to equate all religions, have a meeting place for all religions, and equalise both the outlook of life, ethics and philosophy in school. One important point of faith training is that all faiths are equated with grants. This is not just a reform for the Church, but a reform in which the grant to all religious communities is stepped up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e944	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for the job he has done. We have spent a very long time on this matter. We started work on 13 October last year, so no one has to say that there has not been a thorough examination in the committee – once we get to where we have. We just have to say that in the case of the SFO, there is a real disagreement in the committee. It has been very visible here today – it has actually been very visible all along. We can live with that. With regard to the firm's education, I have said that the Workers' Party is open to considering changes, but we will not be as categorical as the majority is today, and say it should change. We want to see the evaluations that are needed before we conclude. And I have to thank the Council of State for a great understanding of the minority – it was very pleasant. I trust that our views will be well taken care of in the department as well. Arne Lyngstad said that belief training now has first priority. Yes, has it? I don't doubt for a moment on the Christian People's Party's will to give faith education first priority in the budget, but I question the ability. The Council of State has repeatedly said that it is necessary to assess the needs and that baptism training must be seen in relation to other priority and important issues. So we're looking forward to the harvest budget and what's next. Finally, I think there has been a bit of hallelujah today. Maybe it's this day we can have some hallelujah in the hall, but it's been a little bit well. If this is a brand day for me, it's a brand day for baptismal education, yes, but it's a much bigger brand day that we're going to adopt a private school law today – and say goodbye to the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e965	It was the comments from the representative Lena Jensen about the SFO that made me need to say more. What she presented shows a clear ideological distinction in the view of children, in the view of leisure and in the view of voluntary work. We're not going to do anything in the SFO that does anything different than anyone else, but we're going to do sports and music. We who have been thick, asthmatic children know that sports can also be quite sedentary – you can be left out and maybe a little different. I think this with ‘childhood’ is to understand that you are different, accept that you are different, fix that you are different and find the good local solutions where children feel satisfied by being different. It is the good solutions that create safe children, children that fix everyday life – and that fix to grow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e974	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2966]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e994	We're done with the baptism debate. We were so far into colleges, but now it's the cross-country schools that are in the center. When I raise this interpellation debate, it has its background in a development where we see that schools are laid down – not for professional reasons, but for budgetary reasons. I hear all the political parties say that they're concerned that we're going to have a good public school that's full quality in terms of schools in countries we can compare with. When changes are made to the school structure, which is not based on professional and pedagogical assessments, but on purely budgetary matters, it is time to raise the issue here in the United Kingdom, where the school framework is determined. The majority has several issues for public school treatment. At the same time, we see a strong commitment from parents, where both school structure and content are at the forefront. Although some school dropouts are due to a failing student base, improved communication, etc., the observed increase in school dropouts from the late 1980s has no doubt to do with the changed funding system for school activities that resulted in a new income system. Before 1986, according to certain rules, the municipalities were covered by 85 pst. of the operating costs of their schools. For municipalities with a maximum reimbursement rate, it was little or nothing to win financially on leaving schools. Until the 1970s, it was the government through the Department, the Research Council of the Schools, which exerted pressure on the municipalities to strengthen the school by creating larger schools. It was at some point in many ways a wild state policy to centralize the schools. In the subsequent years, national policies, regardless of the political colour of government, have been maintaining a decentralised school structure. While prior to 1986 and the new income system, the State contributing to the additional costs of school structure, the additional costs of maintaining the school structure were now shifted to each municipality. It hit strong municipalities with a small population and with a weak economic base. The current Church Council, Kjell Magne Bondevik, stressed at the time that a new income system should not lead to school centralization for economic reasons. Many local politicians, councillors and schoolmen looked at the effects of a change in income system early and strongly warned against the effects. Furthermore, it is clear that it is more formal to leave schools today than with the protection of the 1969 school law, where the school community and the individual school had a relatively strong and protected position. As I've shown, the number of school leavers has increased. I don't think it's a wild development locally, but that the financial framework of municipalities where geographical and demographic conditions require a decentralised school structure has become tighter. Few schools are even more resource-intensive per year. pupils than fully divided schools. The costs of education and administration are considerably higher in out-of-date and two-part schools. The classification rules ensure age-mixed classes a lower number of pupils than one-year-old classes. ECON, the Centre for Economic Analysis, shows in Report 86/02 an important special cost disadvantage in school as a result of a spread of housing patterns. ECON estimates this to be about 10 pst. of the training costs per students on average, compared to other OECD countries. This fact makes it clear that out-of-date and out-of-date schools actually cost, and not least that comparisons with other countries should not be used in an easy way when we talk about how much money we spend on the education system. So what is it that we lose in the reduction of unadulterated and few-parted schools? What's going on? Age mix is increasing internationally, and studies show that age mixture has in fact also become common in some countries where the few schools otherwise have little tradition. The reason for this is that from a professional point of view, more and more educators take advantage of learning processes that age homogeneity groups do not provide. Here, too, in the country, one has done and makes an experiment with age mixtures in fully-divided schools, preferably over shorter periods of time with themes and subjects. Children learn from each other. The best introduction in a new social context is to be integrated into a group that is already there. In a class of two ages, the establishment and continuation of culture will be easier, because socialisation is far on the way by itself. The attitude-creating work is getting easier, i.e. with standards, responsibilities, expectations, and students can help each other more easily. The usual organisation of schools stimulates the narrowing of the social field of experience for children and young people to persons of the same age and of the same sex. Kvalsund stresses these issues in her doctoral thesis ‘Elevational and informal learning. Compared to the 1995 case studies of few and fully-shared urban spheres, it says that: ‘The pattern of relations in a few schools is close to what we would call genuine or deeper social interaction in spite of differences and inequalities between actors, interaction between different actors. This makes them more advanced devices that usually work at a high collective level. These results are likely to be found also in larger schools that practice ageing. The social learning age mix allows, is great. Similarly, Nordlandsforschung shows in report No. For studies conducted in the United Kingdom, the learning outcomes in small schools are better than in large schools. The quality of learning work is, of course, dependent on the extent to which teachers use frameworks, advantages and total resources for the best possible organisation of their learning. So a little summary. Our school structure costs. Many municipalities have such a tight financial framework that changes in the school structure are often the only way to get the municipal budget into port. At the same time, studies from our own country and OECD countries show that both age and small schools have many educational advantages in relation to large, out-of-date schools. Furthermore, parental exposure shows that school in the community means a lot. It's about the proximity and security of both parents and children. So to the questions that the interpellation builds on, and on which the Council of State is challenged: how will the Council of State prevent schools from being laid down solely for economic reasons? Further, what value does the Council of State see in a few schools, and what opportunities does the Council of State see in maintaining a few schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1038	It's true, as the representative of the Skjellaa points out, there's been a decrease in the number in primary schools. It's also true that the small schools in particular are being laid down. However, this is nothing new. Throughout the period for which we have statistics, the number of primary schools has been reduced. In 1840, there were 7,444 primary schools. In 1950 the figure was reduced to 5,567, in 1970 there were 3,637, in 1990 there were 3,406, and in the current school year there are 3,237 primary schools, including private schools. This is due to several factors, but in particular demographic changes. As the pattern of relocation is, and as the predictions for future settlements are, in the coming years, we will probably also have a certain reduction in the number of primary schools. I am uncertain about municipalities where the geographical and demographic conditions associated with a decentralised school structure have come out worse than other municipalities after the conversions in the income system, as the representative of Skjellaa indicates in his question. Alleforsk says in a 2002 report, which is mentioned in St.meld. No 33 for 2002-2003, that differences in the expenditure needs of the municipality for which compensation has been provided through the income system explain 75 pst. of the differences in resource use per student. The conversion carried out in the cost key in 2002 by the introduction of two new basic school housing criteria, namely ‘Travel distance within zone’ and ‘Travel distance to the nearest neighbourhood’, has not, as far as the ministry can see, led to redistributions to the general disadvantage of particularly pig-grown municipalities. However, it is decided that new housing criteria should be introduced for the municipalities, cf. the municipality proposal for 2004, submitted, in order to further improve the distribution between municipalities. Small schools are, in part, much more expensive in operation per year. pupils than major schools. This is described by Nordlandsforschung and mentioned in St.meld. No Thirty-three. Some of the additional costs are due, inter alia, to the rules for: the division of the class, the manager of the class and the requirements for the competence of the principals. These rules may help to ensure that schools are closed down for purely economic reasons. For example, an increase in the number of students from 12 to 13 will trigger the need for an additional class, which in turn triggers the need for more resources. The cost-balancing of the income system does not take into account such changes in actual expenditure needs and, in this context, there appears to be a clear mismatch between the importance of the classification rules on the income and expenditure side of the local economy. The Ministry's proposal in Ot.prp. No 67 for 2002-2003 on the removal of classification rules etc. will be more in line with the main principles of the income system and provide municipalities with a wider scope for action that could allow solutions other than school closure. There are many considerations that need to be taken into account and weighed down in the definition of school structure, including the length of the cloud and the quality of the pedagogical structure. It's not given that small schools are always the best for the students. I see it as more important to take the students into account than the community when determining the school structure. I also believe that many municipalities that school owners do. I also think it is important that the economy does not force solutions that are to the detriment of the students. With the increase in the free revenues provided by the Government for 2004, and with the proposals for legislative changes that we have presented, the work of the municipalities on this will be easier, so that consideration of the students and the quality of the training can become even more important when future changes in the school structure are to be addressed by the municipalities. In any case, the school structure of a municipality will determine the costs. It is also the case that setting the school structure is a purely municipal task, which is not governed by centrally given rules. That should still be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1049	I thank the Council of State for the answer. She underlined that there are also issues for treatment in Stortinget today in relation to classification rules, etc. I'm not going to go into that debate right now. The report of Nordic research, to which I referred, indicates that cross-border schools are closed solely for economic reasons. These include: the reasons why changes are made to the school structure. What I hoped the Council of State could say was whether she thought it was a good development that schools were laid down for economic reasons and not for professional reasons. One's talking about age, one's talking about small schools, one's underlining the quality of being able to have the schools in the community, etc., and I'd like the Council to say something about it. The second thing I want to challenge the Council of State is whether the Government will launch a development programme just for a few schools, so that the qualities that these schools represent can also be shared by others. We see that much of the pedagogical thinking underlying the few-part school can actually be used well in larger and in unadulterated schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1060	I believe that I commented on the first question that the interpellant now raised, because I said: ‘I also believe it is important that the economy does not force solutions that are detrimental to students.’ So I've explicitly said that if it's just the economy that makes you lay down a school, I don't think it's favorable. Nordic research has looked at the causes of school dropouts in some counties in recent years and has found that out of 51 out of 51 out of the elderly and few out of the school population, 17 were out of work solely for economic reasons. So for the other schools, there were other reasons. Although they were laid down solely for economic reasons, we are not 100% sure if the alternative school offer then has been to the detriment of the students. But it is clear that this justification is a poor starting point on the part of the municipality. Generally speaking, the country, Norway, does not seem to be so expensive with a decentralised school structure. Removing all costs related to small classes, small schools, skyscrapers, etc. changes the total cost of school relatively marginally. But with many small municipalities that don't have a total cost perspective, this can sometimes be burdensome economically, and so it can happen. So if the reason is just economics, I don't think it's lucky. I believe that the approach we have put forward with regard to the local economy and the greater freedom of action we put up in the school sector will actually make it easier for these small schools to find new forms of work and education where the alternative can otherwise only seem to be closure. I also think it can be a good basis for the Storting to follow this development more closely than we have now done, by the Government taking the initiative that the Stortinget will be given an annual report on the resource situation in the school and also on different aspects of school performance and quality. With regard to the development program for the small schools, the branch schools, the single-parent and the few-part schools, I would say that we have a quite comprehensive development program that applies to the whole school. Some of what I'm very concerned about, is the dissemination of experience from schools that have got something, or have something to point to, to schools that have something to learn. I don't ignore the fact that it's a lot to learn from other schools, too, from some of the forms of work and teaching that you use in small schools, out-of-date and few-part-time schools, so it's important that they also participate in that kind of dissemination of experience. I am not prepared here and now to take a decision on my own development programme, but I take the idea with me and may perhaps return to it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1078	Increased local self-government is a major concern of the Bondevik government. At the same time, we see that the government’s prescription for increased local self-government in practice is counterproductive. In the proposal for a new private school law, to be debated later today, the Government states that much will be done before an application for approval will be rejected in the light of the consequences for the municipality. At the same time, the Ministry explains that changes to the Training Act will provide municipalities with even more local space for action. So, what's the state picture in Kommune-Norway? A survey conducted by KS in February this year shows that a total of 56 pst. of municipalities this year reduces one or more services to bring the economy together. The survey includes 164 municipalities, where almost 48 pst. the population of the country is resident. Many municipalities reduce supply in areas of high priority responsibilities: 55 pst. Chicks in primary school, 23 pst. Chops in the school leisure system, and 25 pst. Cutters in kindergartens. When, in addition, the Government argues that increased flexibility will not allow for a reduction in resource use, that supervision by the county should impose obligations on municipalities if deviations are detected, the answer is that it does little to help in the absence of the economy. The government and the Progress Party feed the municipalities, and the students around the country become losers. Interpellation points to the alarming number of cross-border schools that have been closed. 182 schools with 100 students or fewer have been closed from 1997 to 2003. It's a reality, no matter what government we're talking about. Scientists believe that even more schools can take a fall. Over the next ten years, 1000 primary and secondary schools may be closed. Some closures are expected and perhaps so-called natural, but probably many of them are closed for economic reasons. There is no doubt that all municipalities want a good school for their inhabitants. An increasingly poor local economy, as well as the so-called greater freedom to which the Government is adding, means that municipalities have to look for possible savings in the school sector as well. We receive regular feedback from parents’ representatives in the school’s executive boards that they have no influence on the school budgets. They get an ultimatum from the school management to accept the budget or quit as parental representatives. You can't do anything about the economy, you get a message. I believe that the government's answer once again is to increase the differences in Municipality-Norway. But has the government asked what the municipalities want? Is that actually more freedom of action? I think it is in many ways both useless and wasted to argue about who is responsible for a bad local economy. The main point is what Government and Stortinget are doing now to improve the state of School-Norway, and hence the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1097	There are few things that involve the community more than school structure. And that's understandable. School is an important factor in a rural community. The school is an environmentalist, a cultural factor, and it creates commitment and activity. There is no doubt that many municipalities have found it necessary to discuss their school structure over a number of years — and this is a matter of years. The result has been more than once that schools have been put down to strong protests from the villagers. A good number of schools have probably been closed down for economic reasons, but there are also a number of cases where schools have been closed down simply because they have become too small and no longer provide a good learning environment or a good social environment for the students. It must therefore be important to analyse the figures for those schools that have closed down. Some closures have been necessary and may even be desirable for reasons other than the purely economic ones. I myself, as a municipal politician and as rapporteur, have been involved in schooling. One school was even the school my children went to and where my wife worked. There was no easy process, either at home or elsewhere. The municipality did not earn anything from the closure, at least it was marginal, but the school was too small. At one year's end, there were four students, all boys. The environment was simply too small. The school dropout was for the best for the students, who got a bigger environment to travel in. I say this to emphasize that not all closures are due to economics. Even where the rationale is economic, one should not ignore that the result can still be good. The protests in many places are dampened relatively quickly when you see that the children actually thrive in a school with more students, more both teachers and students to deal with. That might be good. I am convinced that local politicians from all parties give priority to the school. It also shows all figures on the resource situation in school. I don't think the schools are seen as balancing posts, but as areas of activity. However, square rules can often be imposed in such a way that costs are disproportionately high. The class division number is an example of this. At the hearing in connection with Ot.prp. 67 KS stated that removing this rule could actually save a lot of small schools. I think that's a correct assessment. Of course, I also know that schools are closed because of the economy. Something as important as the maintenance/decommissioning of schools deserves and is called for more extensive treatment than a proposal in a large budgetary procedure. More things than economics need to be allowed in such a debate. The most important thing must be what kind of school structure a municipality should have in order to get the best possible school, with the best possible social environment and educational environment for students. In some places one achieves this by maintaining a few schools and community schools; in others, a preferred alternative solution can be found. It is important and necessary for one to have a broad debate on such issues containing more elements than economics. I therefore agree with both the inter-pellant and the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1112	The Progress Party shares the inter-pellant's concern for the well-being and, in particular, their future. The main response of the Progress Party is to do something about the funding mechanism. It may well be known that we want a government grant, a state-run price finance that follows the student up to the school that is being chosen. But within today's system, without changing the financing system, you can do a lot. The municipality itself, if a majority so wishes, can distribute its own money to school according to a municipal price system. There is a clear need to clarify issues relating to school education, financial responsibility and administrative responsibilities, as pointed out by this government in its own declaration of accession. What do they hesitate to do? Why don't we get this explanation related to school kissing problems, so that all the money is in the same place and you don't make calculations where you save one box and put another box of increased expenses? It is also the case that changes to the Training Act, such as: the fact that a principal may be the headmaster of several schools may help maintain the smallest schools, including the branch schools. It is also the case that local authorities themselves can contribute self-esteem, linked to the fact that the cross-border school is often glued to the area, to the environment. It's actually municipalities that do. I refer to the municipality of Os in Hordaland, my own home country, where the majority of the local government – there is also the Right in the majority – has clearly pointed out that they actively choose to maintain some small schools, although it is actually somewhat more expensive to drive them than to merge them into a smaller number. They've put in a self-esteem that these schools stay in the four branches that we're talking about. It's expressed the majority's willingness to pay a little bit extra for, because it's so valuable. Then, of course, I'm going to refer to the case that comes to Odelstinget a little later, that when we make it easier for parents to choose school, and when we make it easier for people other than municipalities to set up schools, it can also be a good offer in the branch, even if the municipality chooses to remove the municipal school in the branch.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1125	First of all, I want to commend Rune J. Skjellaaen for taking up an important school policy issue. It's about children's right to an equivalent education, no matter where they live in our country, and that children should be entitled to a school in the community. The development we have seen in the school structure is that more and more cross-border schools are being closed down, not for educational or other professional reasons, but for poor community economics. Today we also adopt a law in Odelstinget, the new private school law, which I think will further speed up school closures in the districts. Policy instruments must now be implemented. There has been an ongoing theme in the Education Committee, and the Government has been asked to come to the Grand Duchy with a review of the resource situation in the school, with a special focus on primary schools and non-adult and few schools, and look at the consequences of closures. The result of school dropouts is that more and more children are deprived of the human right to have a school in the community. SV had expected proposals for concrete policy measures to be made in St. Announcement. No 33 for 2002–03, on the resource situation in schools, which has now arrived, where it is now apparent that small schools need more resources and that there has also been a discussion of the grant scheme for small schools. I myself have lived in and attended school in a piggy country. I know the need for primary schools and I know how important this school is. It's like the plug in a pool, you pull it out, you know what's going on. The consequence of schools being laid down in a built-up area is often that the community is laid down. So what does the government do? My claim is that the government's policy in the long term will erase the cross-border schools. The proposal to change the number of grades without going into any concrete measures to secure the primary schools, when you know that it costs more to run a primary school, as well as the proposal that one principal should be able to run several schools, are also measures that I do not think will benefit the cross-schools. These are only savings measures and not quality assurance measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1138	The Christian People's Party wants a strong public school and sees it as important that municipalities have the opportunity to maintain a decentralised school structure with primary schools. That is why the local economy needs to be strengthened. Moreover, municipalities will be able to show that they will bet on the school when transfers from the state are less earmarked. They're getting more freedom of action. The Christian People's Party has faith in local self-government and wants to facilitate local priorities. However, it is crucial that more free resources are secured in the local economy, so that there is also the possibility of maintaining the cross-border schools. Schools play a major role in a living community and in maintaining a local environment. In addition, through their teaching, the school contributes to the maintenance and further development of local traditions. Questions about school dropouts in municipalities have triggered strong local involvement in many places. The positive importance of primary schools in local communities must not be underestimated. Often the school has a function far beyond being a place of study. It is also a meeting place and a meeting place in different social contexts. In order to ensure that schools are not closed unnecessarily, it is important to have a thorough process ahead of the decision itself. Both parents and students must be involved in this process. On March 5, I asked the Council of State in writing about the transfer of school pillows for primary school students to the municipalities on the basis of Innst. O. No 27 for 2001-2002, where the majority of the Committee points out that such a transfer of responsibility will ensure that the cost of the forest is taken into account in assessing changes in the school structure. The Council of State shows there in its response to Nordic research, as we have heard both the inter-pellant and the Council of State quote from earlier in the debate today. A report has been prepared on the conditions of school kissing, particularly in the context of school closures. The report states that they: «to a small extent, find evidence to claim that the primary municipalities are shifting significant cost burdens to the county municipalities. This can therefore be an argument for the proper functioning of today’s system’. The Christian People's Party will take a closer look at this. Nordic research also summarises as follows: ‘In order for small schools to be able to develop into a community centre with an extended set of functions, it is important that this is a conscious policy on the part of the municipality.’ So the main conclusion of the report is that small schools are more expensive to run than larger schools. Reference is made to earmarked grants in relation to framework grants, salary levels, classification rules, principal requirements, etc. So we have to consider several things about whether today's funding system compensates for the operation of small schools when we aim to maintain a decentralised school structure. The answer from the Council of State today, I think, is clear. This also has a broader perspective than purely economic. Developing further few-part-school education also has a self-value in itself. And as this report is so descriptive, "An entire building is needed to raise a child," and – as I understand it – the government will continue to work on this and look at what can be done. There are several proposals in this report.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1169	The interpellant raises an important question. As left-wing people, we are locally very engaged and struggling to maintain our local schools, plus that in our school policy too, we have been very concerned about the pedagogics of the few schools, which also have to be used in many other areas. I am very happy that this is now being discussed in Stortinget, sail if I believe that this is not a black and white issue. It's not that it's always right to maintain a small school. I went to a small primary school, where some students were driven three miles past three schools to maintain the primary school. This is also a very complex problem. There's also a limit to how small children's environment can be before it becomes a little bit difficult to be different, because if you go into a class of four students, and you're a little different than the others, it's probably tougher and more lonely than if you go into a big class and maybe there's two that's a little bit different. The small few schools also have some problems with those students who don't always slip into all environments. There is also something that local politicians need to take into account when finding good laws. Otherwise, I guess I don't really think there's any party that can hit his chest and say that they have the big solution that's going to stop the trend alone. For us in the Left, among other things, the debate on the law on early school leave, which is coming later today, has been important in view of the parents' ability to have a rice behind the mirror when municipal politicians actually want to quit the primary school. It was some of our main motivation to go in for the new law. But if we in this room put on quality, set on municipal freedom, I think the municipalities will find the solutions that are best for the students. They're the ones in the community, and they're the ones who see how the students are doing. We have to be able to maintain the small environments that provide safe growth conditions and not too large schools. But it's also important that the schools don't get too small, because it's very lonely not to have any friends in childhood.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1180	I hear that from this pulpit it is referred to that Odelstinget is going to deal with the private school law later today. I read on the case list that Odelstinget to the eye gets large and wet, but I do not find that on the case list. On the other hand, I see that Odelstinget is going to deal with a new law on independent schools, and that's what you're talking about. As far as the school structure is concerned, it is clearly a local responsibility that is up to the municipalities to decide. The reasons for school dropouts, which have been referred to both by the Council of State and representatives here, are many. Moving patterns and poor offers to those who are left are often the main reason. I can refer to my own experience. I was a teacher at a district school that had six students from the third to the ninth grade. When there were only two students left, the municipality chose to drop out of school, just for educational reasons and for the sake of offering to those who were left. As the Council of State refers to in the case of school leaving, there is no new phenomenon. Also in central parishes, in labour-participation municipalities and in SV-municipalities, it has been adopted, and it is decided, closures of branch schools today. What some people are trying to make a big point here from the pulpit is that it's the municipal economy that's the only blessing, and that's kind of the actual recipe to stop a development that's been going on for over 100 years. I really have a bad consolation for those who think that's the solution. I can only remind them that the central party's municipal economic structure was less than two percent better than the government's structure, and that the municipal economic structure of the government budget was less than half a percent better than that of the government. If this is what is supposed to save the school structure in Norway, there is little meat on the bone. Another issue to be dealt with today, which is very important for cross-border schools, is the law on fresh schools. The representative, Bekkelem Orheim, referred to parents who were employed in municipal schools, who were not heard, and that the municipality could outrun their parents' interests. There is no doubt that the new law on stand-alone schools gives parents a rice behind the mirror to maintain, among other things. their primary school if they wish, without it being based on a religious or pedagogical alternative. That's why I'm a little surprised that these are the representatives who are now talking as much about cross-border schools and local economy as possible, which are the most intense opponents of this new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1193	I think this has been a constructive debate, I, until the last post by Raymond Robertsen, which is trying to knock political coins on one and the other. Actually, I don't think it's necessary. No one has turned their chests and said, "We've done this." What I've tried through my post and by travelling this case, is to show that there are many schools around with very good quality, which we want to be allowed to remain there and evolve to even better schools. Then it's important that we also have an income system that allows schools in the municipalities of piggybacked areas, where one has an expensive school structure, to actually be able to maintain this school structure, not for the school itself, but simply because many of these schools have the advantage that one actually does not have at large schools. There are a lot of aspects of the few-part-school problem that I want us to find out. That is why I am also pleased with the Council's response that she would assess the idea of being able to solve something in relation to the issue that I raised in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1202	That is when the debate is on case No. 2 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1217	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2967]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1237	Preventive work - hardly any expression is satisfied with greater honor than exactly that. Many report that prevention is easier to prevent than to repair. The centre party is deeply concerned about a development in which we now see cut off in preventive work. It's an area that should be strong. Municipalities focus on statutory tasks. We see measures before the school, which are clearly preventive, being reduced, as well as incentives for voluntary work. We're going to get back to that in a different context. But then there is also a alarming signal when it comes to the relationship between tasks and means in the police action. There is reason to ask questions about the consequences of the police reform was consistent with the intention. The main objectives of the 2000 police reform were as follows: a police and county council that is more effective in preventing and fighting crime, a police and county council that is more service-performing and public-orientated in the police and county seats that work more cost-effectively 400 to 450 annual works were to be released for operational and public work. In St.meld. No 22 for 2000-2001 includes: ‘Most people expect assistance from a nearby police force who, when needed, are present either in the form of services/services or in the form of a call-out when crime is committed or when the accident is over. The aim of the police reform is to meet such expectations.’ The center party thinks there's reason to ask questions as to whether that's what's happening right now. I'll take my own district, Rogaland police district, as an example. In accordance with the reform, 23 settings are converted from administrative to operational tasks – a more visible police force. In the course of the 2003 economic framework, Rogaland received 7 million police districts. kr less in relation to the tight budget they had last year. The result is: vacations, temporary cancellation – 25 settings must be saved on an annual basis. This means that what Rogaland police districts did in the follow-up to the first-round reform has now been a minus as a result of the total resources. If the situation is the same in Rogaland, I believe the Minister of Justice can confirm that the same is the case elsewhere in the country. I wrote to the Minister of Justice about some of the reasons for this in the distribution between the police districts, and I am very pleased that it has led Rogaland to their share of 3 million. kr more in the current year. But they're still out of $4 million. kr, with the resulting reductions. I am also pleased that we have a listening Minister of Justice when we address questions in budgetary context. In the budget debate before Christmas, questions were raised by the Central Party regarding the recruitment of new options. It turned out that in Haugaland and Sunnhordland police districts they had plans to recruit unskilled. Now there is a message that they get many of the new recruitment options. The Central Party has no member of the Justice Committee, so this is one of the ways in which we have the opportunity to ask further questions to the Minister of Justice. What happens if one does not see again the 400-450 year works that were intended to be more visible police, which the Minister of Justice in his budget paper before Christmas was a realistic goal? We are concerned that the role of the police as a perpetrator in the broadest sense is being weakened. We have noticed that the Justice Committee in Innst. S. No 241 for 2000-2001 gave the Ministry a special challenge in developing measurement parameters for, among others. the impact of prevention through the development of childhood and juvenile delinquency, and I find it natural to ask the Minister of Justice briefly to do good for that work. Police districts are now in the process of discussing phase 2 of the police reform. Now it is the offices of local officials who are to be organized through projects in each single police district. The economy seemed to be weak in relation to the tasks of many districts. There are also people at the candidacy offices who know that they don't have a job over the fall if nothing happens in the revised national budget. I ask the Minister of Justice to answer if he shares that view, or if he thinks that the follow-up to phase 2 now is in good hands. The weakening of prevention may mean less visible urban police rather than more visible police forces, which, in the view of the Centre Party, are needed. There will be fewer bilgemen who have the ability to concentrate on the prevention work, instead of getting a reinforcement in that field as well. There is a lot of good work going on when it comes to cooperation between schools, youth, parents and other institutions. There's a need to develop good models at this particular point. It's going to be a very bad thing if this is raking. There is a strong need for strengthening. The main points from criminal statistics are some highlights, but it is also such that the number of reported fractures in Norway has increased by 3.8 pst in 2002. For the three-year period 2000-2002, the number increased by 9.3 pst. It is said that the empire is still rising, and that profit crime is increasing. But luckily, there are also some points of light where the police have deployed resources, and where one has achieved results. There is no doubt that there is a need to strengthen the fight against both everyday crime and serious crime in relation to drug abuse, violence and cross-border crime. My challenge will then finally go to the Minister of Justice in relation to the total resources currently available in this field. We in the Central Party will give our support to the Council of States' commitment both to strengthening the resources for as tidy and fair a distribution as possible between the police districts, and to a distribution that makes it possible for the police to be more visible and to cooperate better, at the expense of administrative resources. I think it is thought-provoking if it is such that a good part of these 400-450 posts has gone so far as to strengthen the Police Directorate and their administration. I hope that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1284	2002 was a special and demanding year for the Norwegian police and officers’ seat. This year, the police carried out the main gravity of the first phase of the major reorganisation that has taken place in the police and county seats of over 100 years, police reform 2000. The Directorate of Police, which has been given responsibility for the implementation of the reform under the given conditions, including: in St.meld. No 22 for 2000-2001, police reform 2000, and letters of allocation for 2002 and 2003, have submitted their first report to the Ministry on the implementation of phase 1 of the reform. On that basis, the Stortinget will be given a broad review of the reform's developments and results so far in St.prp. No 1 for 2004. In addition, that budget proposal will look at the reform in the context of the Storting's wish to be briefed on the police's work on crew plans for the coming years. In my reply to the representative Kleppa's interpellation about, among other things, However, the criminal policy effects of the reform, based on the main conclusions of the Directorate of Police's assessments, I will already make some points of view on the reform process so far. We are pleased to note that the expectations of both the ageing and the government for the results of the reform process in the form of annual works that can be relocated to more operational and public work seem to be or will be fulfilled. Through the important and comprehensive reform work currently under way, it is important to focus on the main objectives of the reform. The reform process is based on a fundamental belief that, through short-term and long-term measures, the agency should be able to gradually demonstrate a capacity for conversion that develops a police and civil servant seat which: more effectively prevent and combat crime more service-oriented and public-oriented work more cost-effective These main objectives have been used for all the individual organisational actions carried out during phase 1 of the reform. I would like to stress, for the sake of order, that measures, conversion requirements and expectations for change and improvement under the objectives of the reform apply to all police districts, regardless of whether there have been structural changes or not. With these more long-term – but equally fully central – main objectives and premises as a background, let us look at some of the visible and concrete measures that the reform presupposes: In St.meld. No 22 for 2000–2001 specific requirements have been set for the release of annual works, among others. for more active, operational and audience-oriented work. It is part of the requirements provided that police districts can redispatch 400-440 annual works on a national basis. This objective is in the process of being achieved, but the effects of the reconversion cannot reasonably be expected to be fully reflected in the same year as the significant conversion work takes place. In 2002, the ETF has undertaken considerable work and resource use, both at management level, among its employees and not least through good cooperation with trade unions. The identification of directly released gains has, as I said, been carried out in line with the assumptions, approx. 420, and by pattern from the examples mentioned in the Storing Message. A broader review of the impact of police reform will, as has been said, be given in St.prp. No 1 for 2004. With regard to the use and impact of annual releases and the redisposal of parts of the police force as required by the reform, it may be appropriate to recall, inter alia, the policy conditions for the impact of the reform. is expressed in the Annual Report on Police Reform 2000: ‘Unrealistic expectations of the positive and visible effects of the ‘nightly’ reform must not be created. The benefits of an organisational reform such as this will take time to realise.’ There is still a lot of demanding organisational and efficiency work to be done. During the current year, for example: police districts adapt and adjust the manning of the various functions by volume, service level requirements and available resources. Furthermore, police services are required to be added to places — and times — where the need for such services is greatest. One of the prerequisites of the reform for this manpower and organisational review is that the police should have an offer as good as it is today, and that no structural changes should be made that impair the closeness and accessibility of the police to the public. It is my and the government's goal that the audience should get the best possible police service from their local police station. This presupposes inter alia: a high level of universality in the police services to be provided. Some words about crew plans and criteria for allocating resources to positions, etc. in the Police and National Police College: On behalf of the Ministry of Justice, the Police Directorate has developed a new model for the allocation of resources between police districts. The background is the Grand Duchy’s wish for an overview of the recruitment plan that will be used by the Government for the years to come following the implementation of the police reform from 1 January 2002. The model, with the opinions of the Directorate of Police, has now been transmitted to the Ministry of Justice. As mentioned at the outset, the Ministry will come back to the case and, among other things, see it in the context of the manpower effects and assumptions of the reform. I would like to stress that the decision on this and the manner in which police personnel will be followed up will be explained in the presentation of St.prp. No 1 for 2004. With regard to crime statistics and the possible links that some are already inclined to draw between them and the effects of the police reform, it needs to be underlined and repeated: while the Norwegian police and county council is now implementing the biggest change in its organisation and structure of over 100 years — with the resources that naturally have to be allocated to such work for two or three critical years of reform work — criminal statistics, as reported by the Police Directorate, show a relatively weak increase in some categories of offences. In addition, it must be borne in mind that individual crime rates always need to be analysed and evaluated in a longer-term perspective in order to be able to say something certain about the causality and influence factors of crime trends. For example, the representative Melting Group Kleppa denominators: the rate of profitability, which is increasing slightly, but here it should be emphasised that overall figures are still well below those of the late 1990s. One of the forms of profit crime that increases is reported gross thefts from a person in a public place. This is a trend that has persisted for several years and which affects Oslo in general. In 2003, Oslo police districts used the working method Problem-oriented police work at some of the police stations, and in 2004 this working method will be implemented throughout the police district. Among other things, at the Central Police Station, we already see results in the fight against pocket thefts. Violence is growing weakly. The figures from police statistics show a certain increase from 2001 to 2002. However, the picture is complex, and it is mainly the less serious forms that are increasing, while several forms of serious violence have declined in recent years. The number of reports for damage to the body by knife and firearms has fallen sharply. The number of reported threats involving knives and firearms has also declined from 2001 to 2002. This includes, among other things: consistency with the conscious and active efforts made by the police in these areas and with the police's ability to control and seize. Intensification of efforts to reduce violent crime is ongoing. Special attention is paid to violence in close relationships, family violence. As of 1 July 2002, special family violence coordinators have been established in all police districts and a separate manual has been published to strengthen police work in family violence cases. As far as traffic crime is concerned, I mention that the police will continue to place great emphasis on visibility and accessibility as a means of improving the care of road users and enhancing the individual’s risk of detection. Police traffic safety work shall be organised in such a way that action is taken against traffic behaviour with the greatest risk of personal injury. If this crime increases, it's simply because police activity is increasing, because it's through increased activity that you also take more of those who don't respect what they're going to do when they don't follow the law. It is also the case that in the current year the police are to increase the response to road accidents as part of their efforts to reduce the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic, see the proposal in the revised national budget. There is a need to significantly increase the use of automatic traffic control — ATK — during the summer and autumn. As far as the budgetary situation for 2003 is concerned, through a number of media redundancies, the Storting will recently be aware that we are not hiding the tightness of the police’s budgetary situation. It is also apparent from the text of the revised national budget. This is due to several factors, including: a salary settlement that is found to have a relatively high impact on the establishment, not least with the increased level of activity in operational functions which, not least, the reform is assumed to take place. A very large proportion of the police officers are known to be in the 24-hour service that triggers additions. With the wage-intensive police operation profile naturally and must have, – roughly – increased efficiency and increased public accessibility will be costly. It is also the case, as the Stortinget is well known, that the fifth holiday week will be introduced during 2003. According to the police directorate's calculations, this results in a 'loss' of 220 annual works in the department. With regard to budgetary developments beyond 2003, I know that the Police Directorate is in constant contact with the police districts and has already made some redeployments to assist police districts which have had special problems in maintaining proper operation without exceeding the budget. This dialogue between the Directorate and the districts will continue. I am confident that the significant reform work currently under way, in conjunction with the challenges facing the budget framework, will result in all police districts, through sensible priorities, and through the assistance of the Directorate, to perform their tasks in a good and sound manner, including the current year. Let me finally link some comments to two aspects. For example, in the case of work against alcohol, I have in the last month, participating in visits to five schools in Oslo and looking at administrative cooperation between schools, parents, students, police and local authorities. I see that this works, and that it works with joy and intensity. I would particularly like to bring out students in Hammerfest who, as part of their student enterprise – and then we are no longer in Oslo – make a booklet for the local drug and drug situation, under the motto ‘This is good to know something about’, and who, after being encouraged to visit both the police and the undersigned, goes out and sells it to the boss. This is actively preventive work and some examples both from the far north of the country and from the heart of the country, the capital of the country. So there's a job going on here that's reason to enjoy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1358	I would like to thank you for a clear orientation on both what the status is and what the government sees as the most important tasks. There are some aspects of his distribution that I think give cause for concern. One is that the gains of the police reform, i.e. these 400-450 posts, actually seem to be greatly reduced as a result of the wage settlement and the fifth holiday. A close question would then be: If the police were to have the opportunity to keep up with their activity, if they had the opportunity to strengthen it, would it not be reasonable for the Government to take it into account in its budget arrangements? I thought it was too easy. We are aware that the police have a tight budget. This means that we are aware that the police need to reduce the activity instead of meeting the expectations that are naturally created in relation to the police reform. They may be called unrealistic expectations, but it is not possible to overlook expectations when it comes to switching between 400 and 450 settings from administration to public service. Then it is well and good to get information in the 2004 budget paper on how it has been in 2003, but the actual everyday life outside, both in the Rogaland police district and in many other police districts, is that they have to say people up. They have to tell people who are temporary workers, they have to tell people who are in temporary positions, and they have to cut off public jobs. In Stavanger they now close the aliens section two days a week. If you don't, the County Police Office and the police will be able to report the same thing. Then my question becomes: is it that the Council of State is satisfied with this situation, or is he going to commit himself to the police being given more funds? And I also have to ask: is he satisfied with progress when it comes to phase 2 of the police reform? Does he want to secure good employment relations and the budgets they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1369	I've got a number of questions. Phase 2 is in the process of looking at the local operating structure. It is briefly about the administrative functions to be provided locally, not whether there should be service locations. Let me take an example that I came to realize by chance: the municipality of Karlsøj decides that the Länsmannskontoret should be merged administratively with the police station in Tromsø. They see that as a practical advantage. So local politicians have assessed it. The situation could be similar throughout Norway. That process is in progress. As far as police reform in general is concerned, if we did not have the police reform, welfare reforms in Norway would ensure that there had actually been job losses. It is clear that when we adopt welfare reforms in Norway that go into all public budgets, we know over a number of years that we pay wages, make sure that people feel good about their jobs – and then at the same time we have to cover the provision of services. I have done nothing but point out that the Storting has at the same time asked for a reform. It leads to some good effects in the job vacancies that are released, and then Stortinget and everyone else have agreed that there has been an extra holiday week. It goes into the public service offer, of course. The reform is positive, but there is reason to stress that the reform is more than annual work. The reform is also a quality effort in the police, so that they think and operate differently. What's called Problem-oriented police work is that you raise your competence, so you don't jump for the events, but you see them in a context, like the example I gave from the Center Police Station. Some of the same is true of the police in their prevention work, which I know across the country, and which I know is based on good administrative cooperation. There I operate after the thesis that there are many frozen crowns in frozen giants in Norway! I have been in municipalities with good finances, and in municipalities with bad finances. The point is that what is often crucial to getting something out of preventive work is that people think that way. And those who think like that get results both where it's local good economy, and where it's bad economy. It's my experience after seeing it. Coming back to measurable criteria on it and saying something about it we're going to do in the context of the budget proposal. With regard to the operational situation this year, as I have explained in the revised national budget, there is a dialogue going on between the Police Directorate and the police districts. Some funds have already been distributed, and I am sure that the Police Directorate will follow the situation locally, so that we can get to what is in the revised national budget, namely to have a proper level of activity in 2003. That's the government's goal, and that's how we rule. Even I try to do what I can to supplement the knowledge that you get through reports and other ways, through travel activities. Many politicians do, and so do state councils. I'm impressed by the work done by the police. I don't think many of the good results are always shown, and they're not said about enough. From this pulpit, at least I will honour what I have seen both in prevention, in the fight against profit crime and violence, and not least in organised crime, where, among other things, we are. significant rates — and have done so in recent years — through the CATCH Special Unit and through the Council for the Coordination of Organised Crime. We see how organization produces effective results. All of this makes me believe in the reform, but we're going to have the reflection that it takes time to get a reform in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1386	There is no doubt that the prevention and combating of crime is one of the most important tasks of the authorities and that the focus on prevention among children and young people is absolutely necessary. The police are doing an incredibly good job of prevention. I wish that other agencies too could do as much work in this field as the police do. When the representative Meltveit Kleppa is concerned that there is no money for preventive work, it is actually possible to do a lot of good preventive work without having to keep up with a lot of money. This is primarily about people in the local community getting involved. And after what I experience when traveling around municipalities and with police, the police are now more focused on prevention than they have ever done, especially through the SLT model of cross-border cooperation, which is anchored at the top level of the municipality. This work is about the local will of local politicians. I think that's what it takes – not necessarily to transfer a lot of money, but a willingness to bet on the prevention work of children and young people in the municipality. When we are in the Justice Committee in the police districts, we also hear about the results of the reform so far. And there is no doubt that there is an incredible amount of good police work going on around, and that the conversion has led to very much positive. But we have to remember that it's not in the port yet. There's a lot of work left. But police reform is the first step towards improving efficiency, so that we can free resources in the police from administrative tasks. When I hear the representative Meltveit Kleppa, I have to say it reminds me very much of hearing the representatives of the Joint Police Association, who now use every opportunity to demand more money and resources. It can't be that it's just asking to increase resources. We, as politicians at Stortinget, must also demand results from the police. Given the whole of the criminal chain, which is important if we are to take criminal policy seriously, we must be able to prioritise and not just yield to those who call for more police all the time. We must also give priority to the courts, and we must give priority to criminal justice. We do if we want to take crime trends seriously. We have to see the whole thing. We must demand results from the police, and then we must also give the police time to get through the reform, to get things in place. Because it's happening very well, and it's doing incredibly good police work. But we, as responsible politicians at Stortinget, must be able to see the whole and not just yield to the demand for more resources all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1399	I then register that the Right has become a responsible ‘police’ in the government! It's interesting to see. It means that previous efforts are down-priority, but it has to do with policies and realities. It's always interesting to hear debates about crime and crime. And I'm equally fascinated every time the Minister of Justice explains that you actually achieve the expected results, cf. What the Police Directorate has signaled. That's interesting enough, I think. At the same time, it is a fact that when the Justice Committee and individual representatives are out travelling and meeting policemen, at least I struggle to recognize the jubilant ovation of the access to resources in the police sector, not only in the Joint Police Association, to which reference is made here. There are quite a number of frustrated policemen out there who have an ambition and a desire to do a lot, but they're not allowed, they don't have resources, they don't have the means to do it. So what does that lead to? This, of course, leads to a third person, i.e. most people, being hit. It's the ones who eventually become the victims of this -- we'll call it -- the money struggle between the Storting and the establishment that's going to do the job on behalf of the Storing and that's going to take care of ordinary citizens out there. When we don't have the ability to give the police the resource they want, they have to cut things down. I'm afraid that's a fact. The responsibility of the representative of Meltveit Kleppa lies in this house. It's with us. That's the framework we give, which is crucial for the quality of what happens around one. I also fully agree, as someone has pointed out, that we have to do things differently. So let's do that. We have a very up-and-coming police in Norway, who are able to change, as a capacity for innovation. At least I get very skeptical and contemplative when I get between the lines here a tone of distrust to the police. I hope, of course, that I'm wrong, because we shouldn't. So the Minister of Justice said there's a limited increase in crime statistics. It's not big, and the Minister of Justice thinks it's good. That's basically good. But what's interesting is what's the reason why there's no greater increase in statistics. Could it really be that people have given up, that people think it doesn't matter to call the police? The door is closed, you don't get help, you don't leave it. Of course you get a statistics then. I think what we have to do is keep strengthening the police. That doesn't mean we have to pump money unilaterally into the system, but that means we have to give the necessary funds to do the job we expect them to do. Otherwise, it becomes directly unreasonable for the Storting to criticize the police, because they are doing the best they can within the limits they have. Therefore, it does not hold with good intentions a good police and Christmas. Money and will probably still have to do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1414	It's an important debate that the representative Meltveit Kleppa is drawing up. The Justice Committee has just visited two different police districts, among others. in my own household, which is Vestfold. I personally believe that police reform has many positive consequences. I don't think we should paint black, for example. that you don't have a crew all day. I think that's quite in place. I don't think we should have it. I don't think we're going to have arrests anywhere in the smallest police station, especially when the Stortinge has told us to take care of those who are actually being brought in, so that we don't get the deaths that we've seen. We're going to show a certain degree of audacity. What is, of course, a problem, and the police point it to, is the settlement of wages and the preparedness for terrorism, the depriving of everyday crime for the benefit of embassy guards, etc. It is also problematic that the government has claimed to continue the activity at the same level as last year, when at the same time we know that the payroll has gone out of a lot of resources, and the same government has actually also proposed cutting 46 million. kr in the last year's budgetary procedure, which the Progress Party reiterated. It was also proposed by SV and the Workers' Party that we should do so. We thought it was not fair to take that money from the justice sector. I also think it is a problem that Stortinget often does not have the ability to give priority to what we want the police to do. The dog law, which we are going to discuss later today, I believe is an example. There is a tendency to assign a lot of tasks to the police and to create a public expectation that the police will deal with all legal problems. I think we should stop doing that. We should be quite clear on what the police should give priority to. At the same time, I want to present the Police Directorate's report. I think it is very unfortunate and very clumsy of the Directorate of Police and/or the Ministry of Justice to present that report the way it happened. By creating an impression in the districts of a wide range of police districts, such as: Vestfold, which is my own district – now to cut down many jobs, has created uncertainty both in the police and in the population that is completely unnecessary and totally unsustainable, especially when you are in the midst of a reform where there is a particular need for a stable framework. I also think it is important that we have a debate in the future on the after-sales and the local economy. The police can never clean up crime alone. When Arne Johannessen says you need 235 million. kr extra to the police, I tell him, you can only dream away, but had I had $235 million. NOK, you would never have received all that money, because they had gone to e.g. after-care, child protection, school, etc., for anything that prevents crime from developing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1431	The interpellant Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa does in connection with the interpellation today, is actually inviting us to an evaluation so far as the police reform. There's no bad starting point for an interpellation. I just think it's a little too early out. At the same time, it is an expression of some of the experiences of many around Norway, namely that there has been some uncertainty, some concern, linked to the results of the reform – we shall call it – so far. We have to take that seriously. I would personally like to say that in the case of the reform, the intentions are clear. The Minister has clearly stated the main objectives. I'm not going to repeat them. What I want to stress, however, is that so far we have received many positive feedback. The police are doing a good job. They have an enthusiastic attitude to implement the reform, while the media are able to communicate to us unlucky – it is not right to call it an episode – events, so it turns out that in the wake of the reform, for example, there are factors that have occurred. a call-out takes too much time, which in turn makes people feel uncertain about the legal certainty of their environment. I think it's important that we take this seriously, and that we look at it and work on these things. I am convinced that the police in the relevant districts do, and that experiences are shared, so as to avoid such things happening in other districts. But we're in the early stages, and it's too early to draw any final conclusions, but we can learn so far from what's happening. One of the consequences of the reform would be public work. It's clear that it means visible police, but that doesn't just mean it. It may also mean that at individual police stations, people are strengthening those who are dealing with reported cases, so that people feel that they are being taken seriously with the things they come with. Visible police don't necessarily just mean walking around the streets with uniform. There are aspects of this that I think will be good in the future – we just need to have a little patience, so that the reform gets the opportunity to sit down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1440	The centre party is very concerned with the prevention of police work among young people. A number of police stations do a good job, but we know that development opportunities are great in this area. We also know that when the financial framework becomes scarce, prevention often becomes harmful. We have a great ability in our country to prioritise repairs rather than prevention. If the number of offences recorded in the age group below 14 is stable, it is reported that the number of first-time offenders is getting younger. Prevention in Oslo reports that children down to the age of 12 to 13 are now an important target group. Winning crimes, drugs, violence and harm are the most common crimes in the youth group. We are convinced that it is possible to prevent the vast majority of these young people from getting a criminal racetrack, but then there must be the capacity to address the problems of the first time the offense or crime, or at any rate before anything wrong happens. Preventive police work is so often so often. I would like to focus mainly on one topic: systematic and thorough discussion of concerns. Some police stations use worried conversations as a conscious tool in their prevention work, and it turns out to be very good results. The central party believes that all police stations need to have the capacity to carry out concern talks. In our opinion, a discussion of concerns should take place when a child or a youth has committed a crime for the first time, or when there are rumors in the local community that he or she is using drugs, tags, bullying, expressing racist attitudes or the like. The police are holding a conversation with the person according to a defined timetable. This is where it is mapped, for example. how the person is at home, in the group of friends and at school. In this way, the police will be able to form a picture of where the problems lie. It is possible to offer help or support, or one can only, by sea, express concern about the rumors that go about him. A discussion of concerns could be followed up by the police in relation to school, leisure club and possibly other public bodies. Anyone who is called for a discussion of concerns will probably also be able to get a regular police contact, as you handle it in some parts of the country. It turns out that it is a problem to get parents to put up with the concerns. The parents who initially follow up poorly on their kids are also hard to set up. The central party believes that parents must have an obligation to set up when the children are called for a police discussion. This leads me to two questions: how will the Council of State ensure sufficient resources for the police to conduct systematic and consistent discussions of concerns? Will the Council of State impose an obligation on parents of children under 18 years of age to meet when the child is invited to a discussion of concerns?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1455	Much of the previous speaker’s input went on concerns between parents and the police. Now it is that this room has actually adopted, against the Workers' Party and the SV's votes, that there should be a mandatory discussion of concerns between the police and the parents. It's not like there's a voluntary arrangement, it's actually an obligation for parents to set up. It has been decided upon in this great process. I'm not sure what the Center Party meant that time, but I hope they were positive, at least they are now. I think that's fine. In addition, I think that the interpellant addresses an important topic. We're also worried, of course, that the police won't get enough resources to do a good police job. However, many of the problems that Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa refers to here are, in fact, a management problem and perhaps not a resource problem, because budget figures from 2002 to 2003 showed an increase in the funds for the 5.7 pst police action. What has emerged in the media in relation to the resources of the police is trying to get a fair distribution, as the interpellant said, between the police districts. The investigation carried out by the Police Directorate reveals nothing but the fact that there is a big difference between police districts and police districts. For example, the district from which I come has major traffic problems in relation to border traffic, a high population concentration, cross-border crime and large and heavy issues, as well as that they score well in relation to the objective criteria set by the Directorate in relation to management and preparedness, administrative tasks, civil tasks and not least geography and structure, and – the most important, perhaps – in relation to crime control. These objective criteria are set to reveal where the shoe prints in relation to the lack of resources in the police, because it can't be that all we did 30 years ago is to be extrapolated further into the future. It must be that we adjust the resource supply where the problems are in fact, and where the money and funds will have the highest rate of exploitation in relation to the fight against crime. In addition, it was mentioned that public-oriented work should be carried out. The Justice Committee has recently been in Telemark to see how the police reform has worked there, and I have to say that it gave very positive signals. They've been thinking completely new. They've started with blank sheets, they've got, among other things, start with a completely different common understanding of objectives and a completely new holistic approach to modern police work. It has, among other things, As a result, immediate research has been started into issues that arise. You start right away, and take things away. In the long term, this will result in a clear reduction in the length of the procedure. Of course, it will also help to increase legal certainty for society. So the police reform has many facets, and many positive facets. We just hope that the work that the police are doing continues, so that the fight against crime can continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1467	I have been advised to be patient. Through this debate, I have been advised to believe in voluntary work. It has also been recognised in this debate that both pay and the fifth ferive rate mean a great deal in relation to the overall resources of the police in the future. Of course, the central party, like the other parties, should await the evaluation to be made by the Council of State when it comes to police reform. But we thought it was important to tell you if what's happening on the road. We've been told that the total effect is unfortunately not going to be as expected. We have been confirmed that the police are still facing major challenges. It tells both the crime statistics and the terrorist image, and it tells the valuable work that the police do in the field of prevention, and as I understand it here is a broad deal if really should be strengthened. It is unclear, I think, if the council believes that the police today have resources according to their tasks. I hope that the one-sided focus on the budget balance does not mean that he will return to the Stortinget with a new cut in 2004, as he did in the 2003 budget, which was rejected politically. I hope that the Council of State has the same commitment to the Länsmannskontoret that he had when he was the Council of State in the Bondevik I government, and that he is busy with the fact that it is not the economic situation, but the tasks of the various Länsmannskontoret that will be the focus when the course is due to be stage 2 in the police reform. I would like him to clarify his role in the work that is now to be done with step 2. I would like him to also clarify whether he is looking at the overall challenge for the police now so that there is a need for a joint effort to strengthen the resources. I would also like him to confirm that the preventive work should only be voluntary. I believe that the Centre Party and the Left are some of the things that need to be done in a combination of different occupational groups and voluntary forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1478	First to the budget for the current year. From the Government side, it was proposed to move 46 million. From the police to the police. It was accepted, but during the budget negotiations, the police budget was strengthened by 46 million. kr and the 10-million-dollar criminal service. kr, in agreement with the Progress Party. But there was a proposed redisposal to see the context of the criminal proceedings. With regard to the budget for the current year, I have described it as tight, but I have said that there are provisions that the Directorate of Police has and uses in dialogue with the districts. Something has already been distributed, and you will continue that dialogue. In other words, it's not finished. The government has said in its opinion that for the current year we believe that we can maintain a sound level. As far as police reform is concerned, it has different elements. It has elements of jobs, but it also has elements that go into new forms of work, and the new forms of work are the result of very many places. Committee members have expressed this, and I have experienced them myself. Many forms of work are really about sitting instead of waiting for others to work together. This is done locally, not least within the framework of what is called drug prevention, and in the case of prevention of children and young people losing their foothold, losing it too well. As far as the situation of terrorism is concerned, we cannot act as if that situation did not exist. So when that situation exists, of course, there will be an increased challenge for the police. The government has therefore also stated in the revised national budget that because of this, we must reserve the right to come back with what it can mean for police challenges, including costs, so that we do not risk what someone has been facing, that efforts in this area are affecting the fight against everyday crime. Just in a time of terror, in order to use that expression, it is very important that normality goes its course, while at the same time doing what one can to guard against what is a serious new situation for our country. With regard to the report that was commented on, the police director had the task of producing a report, and I don't want to criticise the police director because they're open to creating a model for how the crime algal geography would look in Norway ideally. But it is the Ministry of Justice that manages the report in relation to the budget submitted, and therefore comments on what is happening. I find that a number of police officers then say what is absolutely right, that a report has been made on a professional basis, made on the basis of a particular year, it is for political treatment. That's absolutely right. And if anyone asks if it was known to the police officers, I can confirm that it was, because I was present at the recent police chief's meeting in Bergen, and I then made it clear that that report would go into such a decision-making process. But we need to have a report on the table to see how we're going to use the resources, and then probably most people will say that we don't have too many policemen in Norway, we have on the contrary enough of the challenges that we're going to do more to try to solve. I myself see the debate here as very constructive. People are involved in police work and work. And let me finish like this: there's reason to have great confidence in the Norwegian police force. They're making a huge effort, that's the starting point, but it's also a tight budget, it's clear to the government about in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1493	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1499	The size is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1506	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Eva M. Nielsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 2-7, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen The proposal Nos will first be voted on. 2–7, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case with proposals for strengthening and further developing the CRL subject in primary and teacher training for this subject.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for a user survey among parents and children on whether potential users are interested in using a baptismal training offer. In addition, the study must consider the extent to which potential users want the offer to be available. Based on the results of the study, the extent of baptism training should be determined.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a financing model for baptismal training based on the price principle; so that the individual Norwegian Church community is provided with support from the State per participant in baptismal training and is used until the final funding model after the Church/State separation is put into use.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to start a full investigation into how the church should be financed by a distinction between state and church, ensuring that today’s church duties can be carried out properly. In this context, questions relating to the financing of baptismal training following a distinction between state and church must also be considered. It is assumed that the investigation also takes a position on the distribution of properties and values relating to the current church system and that the arrangements for the transfer of members are clarified.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘Doping training shall not take place during the opening time of the school or school leisure arrangements.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to file a case for amendment of Section 36 of the Church Act so that confirmation education cannot take place during school time.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1558	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Tross training shall not take place during the school leisure system opening hours.’;» The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1581	The President notes that a correction has been made to the adjustment. you are replaced by the following: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend § 36 of Law 7 June 1996 No. 31 concerning the Norwegian Church.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1601	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1614	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1621	It shall be put to the vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 29 April 2003: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals on working environment regulations with supervisory function for students at vocational schools.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1633	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-27.ana.ud2601e1644	There is no record.
