ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e38	The representatives of Morten Höglund, Ågot Valle, Finn Martin Vallersnes, Ivar Østberg and Hans Kristian Hogsnes, who have been licensed, have again taken up their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e58	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e63	I suggest Anne Berit Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e68	Anne Berit Andersen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Anne Berit Andersen is considered unanimously elected president of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e87	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e96	In Document No: 8:117 for 2002-2003 supports the proposal that all foreigners applying for a residence permit in Norway should sign a declaration of allegiance to the Norwegian Constitution and the promise to comply with Norwegian laws. The proposer refers to the fact that such a declaration will allow for the adoption of stricter and more consistent expulsion rules. The majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, believes that the proposal for a declaration of allegiance will have no real function. It simply won't have any effect, just be a typical paper decision that has no purpose. The majority of the Committee therefore does not support the proposal. Every country has its own laws and regulations. A person in Norway is in any case bound by Norwegian laws and regulations. It's a matter of course. A person who violates Norwegian laws and rules must take the consequences and the punishment. That's just as obvious. If this Document No: The 8 proposal is intended to reduce crime, I think the proposer has failed. There is no reason to believe that this proposal combats international organised crime. Hard-barked criminals can't stop themselves from putting their signature on a piece of paper. In order to combat crime, other instruments need to be used, and more measures have been taken by both the government and the magnificence during this period. I will briefly mention some of the measures in question: The institution of asylum shall be divided into two, and unfounded asylum seekers shall be dealt with within 48 hours. A rapid transport operation shall then be carried out. The government has reinforced the obligation to provide information to the police against UDI, and police matters should be prioritised in the proceedings. We have decided that the police will now be allowed to use UDI fingerprint records for crime. The Government, at the hearing, has proposals to facilitate access to expulsion. The lower penalty framework is proposed to be lowered. It appears in Document No. The 8 proposal that a declaration of allegiance should also be signed in the context of an application for asylum. To this end, Norway is obliged by both international conventions and Norwegian law to receive and process asylum applications that are being promoted here in the country. It is not that we can refuse to deal with an asylum application only because the applicant does not wish to sign a declaration of allegiance. The most important thing for the Right is that those who come to Norway and get a residence permit learn Norwegian as soon as possible and get a knowledge of social life, laws and regulations. This training is also familiar with the consequences of breaking Norwegian law. Here I would like to mention specifically three measures. The first is that in the first four months, residents in reception of asylum will be subjected to a 60-hour information programme. The second is that from 1 September 2004, the law on the introduction scheme will apply to all municipalities. It is a comprehensive programme which includes both Norwegian education, social knowledge and cultural understanding, which provides skills and which is intended to lead to work. The third is that the Government is investigating a system of compulsory training in Norwegian and social skills for immigrants, i.e. for those groups not covered by the introduction scheme. These are three important actions that will provide a good basis for good integration. The party of progress has also chosen its own path this time. The Party supports the proposal, a proposal which has no intention and which increases red tape and the administrative apparatus. It is not always easy to understand a party that, at one moment, is raging against increased bureaucracy and paper fields, but which, at the second moment, will be on proposals that are just increasing the same bureaucracy. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e139	The requirement that all non-residents applying for a residence permit in Norway sign a declaration of allegiance to the country has gradually become a repetition in this Chamber. The proposal has been promoted before and voted on. The same fate is most likely to happen today. But what is now a declaration of allegiance to the Constitution of Norway? And what is the real purpose of the proposal? Is there a symbolic act to be required of the immigrant, which is important here for the proposer? The way I interpret the proposer, it's hardly what's meant. Or is it that a declaration of allegiance that is signed more or less half-hearted will be a better starting point for good integration? I don't think it will help to get better integration into Norwegian society. But will it then facilitate access to expel him? Is that really what is meant by the proposal? There is no doubt that Norwegian laws and regulations apply to anyone who is staying here in the country, whether they have signed a declaration or not. It is Norwegian law that applies to everyone in this country, whether they are from Chile, from Denmark or from Bergen. Of course, there are also rules for expulsion. This legislation is constantly tightening up and the Stortinge is expected to receive a new proposal for changes in the near future. The Labour Party believes that clear and strict rules on the expulsion of criminal offences are a much better way of dealing with expulsion cases, where legal certainty for individuals is also ensured. The fact that those who come to the country and seek asylum are not aware that breaking Norwegian law can result in expulsion is unlikely. There is no evidence of that either. And I think it's underestimating someone over others. Whether such a declaration of allegiance would have given fewer asylum seekers who do not need protection is unlikely either. Regardless of whether the applicant refuses to sign such a declaration, Norway is obliged by international conventions and Norwegian law to receive and process asylum applications that are being promoted in this country. The Progress Party believes that asylum seekers who do not wish to sign a declaration of allegiance should not have access to the empire because it represents a threat to the kingdom. What threat? Therefore, the Party is in favour of the introduction of a new temporary residence permit, which in that case only gives the right to protection in a closed reception of asylum until the situation in the home Member State makes it possible to return. The cost of this mentions the Progress Party not in a word. We know it's not about any nights. Civil war lasts for many years, and it costs over $100,000 per year. years to live in a normal reception. Living in a closed reception would probably cost twice the cost, and if we compare it to a prison, it's a multiple. This is the sensible use of taxpayers' money, says the Progress Party. The alternative is that the same people, who have done nothing wrong – the only thing they have done – refuse to sign a declaration of allegiance to Norway – use their resources while they are here, that they come to work and can support themselves if they need protection. The Working Party agrees that Document No. 8:117 and the proposal of the Party of Advancement are rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e158	I listened with a little sense of humor to the first two posts here. First, to the case rapporteur, from the Right, who is very concerned about and afraid of bureaucracy. Then I must be allowed to say, if the right had really been concerned about it, they would certainly not have opened the locks in such a way that the turnover in the UDI now passes NOK 6 billion. If there is some bureaucracy that has grown after the Right came into government, it is at least in the UDI. And then they accuse us of adding up to a bureaucracy. It must then be the easiest thing in the world to sign such a declaration of allegiance, when one is at the same time going to interview anyway. It can't cost the whole world. The rapporteur is also a little bit concerned about the costs, like the representative Eye from the Workers' Party. If these two representatives had really been interested in it, they would also have looked at where the costs are today. If there is any party that has made sure that the costs in these fields have gone dramatically to the worst in the last four to five years, then there are exactly these two parties. Never has Norwegian asylum and immigration policy cost as much as it does now, and it is these two parties that have provided it, by opening the locks. The representative Signe Eye is concerned about whether there is any doubt about Norwegian laws and regulations. But we are witnesses to it every day! We get reports every day almost every day, that people don't respect Norwegian law and Norwegian rules. And then there must also be substantial doubts about what Norwegian laws and regulations are like and what is going on with those who are applying for a stay in Norway. Then we have to make some contractions. I also call for a statement in relation to this with international conventions that emerge in every debate on proposals in relation to this, on whether this obligation is to be given to Norway to deal with asylum seekers. So we don't. Now we have to end that debate. We have a right to that. It's not all of the applications we have a duty to deal with. So I'm going to try to get into the thoughts that we've made as we support this proposal. We are fully aware that such a declaration as this will not prevent petty criminal asylum seekers. That, of course, is not why such a proposal is presented either. But I think that such a proposal would be helpful in the first instance in terms of stopping extreme fundamentalists, Islamists, in getting to stay in Norway, people who have a completely different agenda for staying in Norway than getting protection. These people will not sign such a declaration. This will be contrary to their convictions. That is why we already have people who are not going to stay in Norway. I think that would have been the outcome of such a statement. Whether it is one person, or whether it is five people, is so much indifferent. If we had got rid of one, I believe this proposal has something to do with it. We must now begin to recognise – more than the Progress Party – that Norway has positioned itself as an attractive country for questionable asylum seekers. It is not for nothing that Norway has allowed aircapers, war criminals and other criminals to seek residence in Norway. I want to see the extreme, fundamentalist person who, without embellishing, recognizes the right of women to education and social life by signing such a declaration. I don't believe it. It's possible that I'm naive, but at least it's worth a try. I record – and it is not a surprise – that Stortinget will also oppose this time. But I have recorded that at least the Council of State, and also others, have been concerned about such a declaration of allegiance in the matter of getting Norwegian citizenship. I don't see the big difference. But I want those representatives to tell me what's the big difference between this, whether it's just the symbolism they're after in relation to citizenship. Two words at the end: I also see that the representative Eye is concerned about the costs of closed reception. So now it's like opening up an asylum prison. The first time the Progress Party proposed this, we were harassed for it, but now it's in place. We're happy about that. We hope that there will be more. We also hope that they will be in line with what we have proposed here, but then it will come later. I am promoting the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e181	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e184	The proposal is promoted, as stated in some of the comments, to protect Norwegian citizens from international crime. It's a task that's important and proper in itself. But at the same time, the representative Sandberg says that it must be the simplest thing in the world to sign such a declaration. Yeah, I really think it is. It is absolutely impossible for SV to follow the reasoning of the Progress Party in this matter, when they believe that people who are really out on evil business, and who have an agenda that is either pure crime or – as Sandberg was now on, and drew lines to – international terrorism, should have the least scruples in signing such a statement. I must say that at least I do not believe that people who are able to commit terrorism against innocent people should be allowed to stop by such a statement. Unfortunately, I don't think so. We are a daily witness to the crime, says Sandberg. Yes, we are. We are also in the case of Norwegian citizens, who are absolutely aware of the letter of the law and the content of the law. So I think, and SV thinks, that committing criminal acts really has very little to do with whether we know what's allowed or not. We know that. In some cases it can be. Then error can be part of it, and it also takes account of it. It is quite clear from the SV that everyone in Norway is required to comply with Norwegian law. That's quite reasonable and correct, whether you're foreign or Norwegian. SV also believes that those who have committed criminal acts should, of course, be punished for this. They're going to be jailed for it, like others. But you're going to be treated by the same law, whether you're one or the other. To go through some kind of solemn ceremony or something to make a stand on people when they get citizenship, we also seem to be a good idea. But we don't particularly want to interfere with the Constitution and the law, because we believe that this gives a wrong signal in such a situation. It will be a little like this, as stated in the comments of the Progress Party, that it is believed that there should be no ‘religious or culturally dependent rules’ that are themselves criminals and that cause people to commit criminal acts. I have to say that I think it's a little bad to read, because I think that most people who are a little busy with the ethics of the different religions, see enough that religion is being abused to commit criminal acts in some cases. But then I think it would have been more important to apply to those interpretations of religion that do not confirm such criminal behavior. So to the things that we think must be put in place in Norwegian foreign policy if we're to make this work better. Perhaps the most important thing is that we need to put Norwegian education back in place for asylum seekers who are waiting for their case to be approved. As for those of whom we know the identity, SV is not the least in doubt that it is the most socially useful, and the most useful thing for the individual involved. The tool that enables you to be integrated into the Norwegian community is that one can Norwegian, and the earlier it gets started, the better it is. I could imagine asking the Council of State, which is also going to have the floor, how she looks at the term tolerated stay, which is mentioned in the comment of the Progress Party. As I read it, I believe that the Progress Party has misunderstood the content of the concept of residence, when they say in the note that it is people who have committed criminal acts and cannot be returned to their home country. My and SV's understanding of this concept is that it also includes people who have not necessarily committed criminal acts, but who do not have the right to asylum, and who cannot be returned to their home country. And there's a group that I have to say that I react quite strongly to being labeled as criminals in themselves. They're not.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e201	I had not intended to extend this debate with my views on various articles. I agree with the majority in what has been said. But I want to clear up a misunderstanding that I think applies to Per Sandberg and maybe some others, as to what I think about a declaration of allegiance. I do not believe that we should introduce any declaration of allegiance, either by citizenship or by applications. In fact, I have quite clearly rejected what you have a discussion about in England, to introduce a declaration of allegiance to English citizenship. What I have said, on the other hand, is that in the voluntary ceremony that we want to introduce, so that we get a solemnity linked to becoming a Norwegian citizen, it is possible that it should be a form of oath. An oath is nothing but a declaration of allegiance, and it is not mandatory to be part of it. But as part of a solemn ceremony, you can find ways to enter an oath. We haven't taken our stand on it, but we think it might be interesting with such a content in an inclusive ceremony in the future. A declaration of allegiance we do not believe is a particularly topical, good or effective system, and in many ways we find it unnecessary. We don't intend to force people, either, saying that if they don't participate in the ceremony, they don't get Norwegian citizenship. We actually think that we should focus on the inclusive and not the punishing or regulating of this type of ceremony. It's supposed to be a party. I think it should be a party to become a Norwegian citizen. I tend to say that I'm mountaineering, we like celebrations, we like ceremonies, but we don't use it as punishment for others. So to the question of tolerated stay. Deprived residence is given in Denmark to two groups of non-residents. These are persons who have been refused asylum because they are expelled from Denmark because of serious crime. That's one group. This will be given to persons who can be excluded from refugee status under the Refugee Convention. They're the ones per day. the date on which the residence is granted. In Denmark, they are not necessarily placed in a closed reception, but it is planned – I am not sure how far they have come – that they will just come with that kind of leadership for exactly this type of group in Denmark. But also in Denmark, it is said that their closed reception will be contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights if their stay is longer than a few months. This also applies to our possible closed reception; it cannot be a solution for people over a long period of time, but it is in a short-term process. For this reason, the reception we now have — i.e. prison — for people who are going out of the country, where the deployment plans are ready, but where they are kept during stay so that they do not leave in the period after finishing treatment. There may be criminals, but there may also be other asylum seekers on their way to emigration, and on average they stay at Trandum less than a week, usually just one night or two, in connection with a broadcast. We don't have a category in Norway called tolerated stay, but one can say that in practice we have people that we tolerate are in Norwegian territory because we can't send them out. It's a group that could travel back voluntarily, and a group in which we have problems clarifying their identity, and therefore cannot decide the situation for them, or we can say that we know that they don't need protection, that what they have said, is not true, but we can't get the country to accept them. In practice, one might say that without a category of law, we also have some tolerated residence in this country, but there will always be a restriction on the European Convention on Human Rights as to how long you can keep people in custody or in some form of protection. First of all, it must be gross crime. Secondly, in Norway, with the Foreign Affairs Act, we will be in conflict with the European Convention on Human Rights when it comes to having people long in expectation. And we don't have to forget that this isn't a solution that's about the people that we can't transport out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e212	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e215	I would first like to say that I agree with a lot of what the Council of State says. I also think it was very nice to get a clarification as to how the Government and the Council of State think about the ceremony that's going to be in citizenship. But my question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State have any thoughts or ideas that the Storting is now not familiar with in relation to working against the situations we have witnessed this year, where we are now later given speculations, call it rumors that among those who have stayed in Norway, there may be people with a possible criminal background, with a war crime background or with a background in cell building, any terrorists? Does the Council of State now have information that the Storting does not have access to, and that perhaps the Storting should have had, so that we avoid debates that do not deal with the problem, but go outside?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e222	I got an association with a book title called "But you never get my mind." It is only when the Government has finished examining the proposal that it is natural to make concrete proposals to the Stortinget – that it will be the government's overall policy. We have a lot of issues in the foreign field coming next year. We have many legislative proposals in many areas. With regard to the issue of war crimes and persons who may be suspected of having committed crime in their home country or who may be a threat to the security of the State, we have implemented a tightening of UDI practices related to information procedures, cooperation procedures, police and police security services and the UDI and the interaction with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. We've seen examples of not being informed, of being more able to make decisions than you've ever had, and of making decisions other than what you've done. We have no plans to make proposals for the Storting other than those that have been notified a long time ago, namely what is going on in the appeal procedure in relation to the security of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e232	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e237	I would like to make a few comments on the article from Per Sandberg. He was rather discouraging in his speech, and he spoke of ‘this obligation Norway has to deal with asylum seekers’. So there was a comment on this with international conventions and rules. Then I want you to know what the Progress Party writes in its comment in the setting: ‘These members, however, agree with the majority that it would be contrary to the Refugee Convention to refuse asylum seekers protection if they need it, even if they refuse to sign such a declaration. These members consider it important to comply with the conventions and international agreements which they have undertaken to observe, but it is unsustainable to provide some kind of extra benefits to non-residents who will not even recognise and live by the rules in place in the country that provides them with protection.» According to this remark, the overall head of the Progress Party is that we have an obligation in relation to the Refugee Convention, and I think it's okay to bring it up, because the contribution to Per Sandberg could get the impression of the very opposite. As far as the issue is concerned, that the proposal is about combating crime, I would like to say, in relation to the Per Sandberg post, that I, like Karin Andersen, have no faith that for criminals and terrorists, it will be something that prevents them from writing their own signature on a paper. I think that that category of people has completely different objectives, goals that stand far beyond the need to sign a statement. So to Per Sandberg, I think that's too simple. Otherwise I didn't mention anything in my post about costs, but I was talking about bureaucracy and paper fields, and there is probably so much an unnecessary institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e253	Bureaucracies are also a cost question, so I interpret that statement there. I will try to be a little clearer to the representative Holmberg in relation to this with the duty. What I'm saying is that there's no contradiction with what we write in the comment. We have to comply with international conventions, but there are no international conventions that say that we have an obligation to deal with all asylum applications. There is no international convention that says that we have an obligation to process applications from all people applying for asylum in Norway. That's my purpose. And that has to be clarified. It seems that the majority and all the other political parties have taken a line that suggests that no matter who comes and seeks asylum in Norway, one should be treated as an asylum seeker. That's what I want to live with. Now we have to start thinking about when it comes to these relationships. As far as the representative Karin Andersen is concerned, I want to flirt most. The representative Andersen is a very up-and-coming, intelligent lady from Hedmark, but it is some part of the body of the representative Andersen who works hecticly against expressing her understanding of the intentions of the Progress Party. I understand that, and I respect that. But I also record that Andersen’s representative stigmatises all asylum seekers. She stigmatises all those who seek residence in Norway – that they are not honest – because, as the representative Karin Andersen says, these people will sign such a declaration, but they don't mean anything about it. It's a stigmatisation of people coming to Norway, they're some con artists, and they don't have honest intentions. They just want to sign with false intentions on such a statement. I'll register it. Representative Andersen does not believe in the people who are looking for a stay in Norway. I just want to remind you of the following things that I think the majority in the Chamber should remember, also in other issues of immigration policy: when the time is running out, you won't regret what you've done. What you're going to regret is what you haven't done. This reflects Norwegian asylum and immigration policies. I am sure that those who make up the majority, who have been involved in the policy for a long time, acknowledge that they have not done things at an earlier stage, in line with what the Progress Party has proposed. Otherwise, it is quite right that the representative, Andersen, pointed out in relation to what we write about ‘stolen stay’. But I'll register it, and next time, I'll write it word law. We haven't mentioned the two groups. We mentioned one group, and it's in our comments. That's right, as the Council points out, there are two groups involved. I'll write that next time in my remarks, so that the representative Andersen will also get the essence of what the Progress Party says.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e266	The difference between the SV and the Progress Party on how to deal with the institution of asylum is quite considerable, including in the view of the world. We recognise that the world is full of conflicts, full of people who are under attack, and that Norway has a responsibility to provide protection to those who need it. We can't look at people and from some feeling, someday, say, "No, now it's too many." We believe that they should be dealt with under the conventions to which we are obliged, and that they should be dealt with on the basis of the same legal certainty as others have. SV has supported the rapid procedures for which the Government has now agreed, in order to filter out the asylum seekers whom we have assumed to have groundless applications. So we're supporting these procedures, so there's no disagreement. International crime is a major problem. Some are white-collar offenders who have no external characteristics, and they are about trafficking in women and children, they are about drugs and weapons, some of which are serious crime. I don't think people who have such hurt in anger will blink once before they sign such a statement. It is miles from saying that I believe that all asylum seekers are criminals or are not honest. I specifically referred to those who are supposed to stop this proposal, which is supposed to say: No, I can't sign this statement, because it says here that I should follow the law, and if I sign it, I have to follow the law, and I didn't think so. You have to excuse me – I really don't think it's going on that way. There's a lot of people in this country that we don't know is here. The limits are open. The Schengen Agreement prevents us from carrying out border controls. The progress party has been a follower of it. It is a big problem that I hope the Progress Party will soon be willing to look at. SV wants freedom in a globalized world, so that people can travel across borders, more than today. But I think we need to look at another kind of border control in the future than what we've had to do now, precisely because there are so big problems associated with international crime, and because there's a legitimate need for any country to know who's within the borders. We're not doing that today, unfortunately, with the regime we have. Therefore, we believe that there are entirely different types of action that need to be taken if serious and serious international crime is to be prevented, rather than if asylum seekers in Norway have to sign a paper on their intention to comply with Norwegian law. They're going to have to do that anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e279	Just a short comment for the debate itself. The centre party is in the plurality that rejects the proposal that we are considering today. The majority in the Committee have provided a thorough and sound basis for this. But when I listen to what is being said here, I find reason to remind Per Sandberg that what we are invited to do today is to decide on a Document No. Eight proposals to sign a statement of threat to the Constitution and a promise to comply with Norwegian laws. I would actually recommend Per Sandberg to have respect for the fact that there is a plurality, all except for the Progress Party, which does not believe that such a declaration has any real content. Nor do I believe that Per Sandberg has shown what kind of effect such a proposal might have. It is also the case that the Progress Party is currently producing its own policies as if they are not participating in the international responsibility of many countries to protect those who ask for it. It's a common international responsibility we have. There is now a distinction between how the Progress Party produces its own policy, and how they misrepresent others' policies. I hope that we will soon have a matter of promise changes in the foreign field, so that we can have a more thorough discussion of Norwegian refugee policy than what we have in a matter like this. But let me remind you that the Progress Party itself has been in favour of Norway joining Schengen, which in itself is a contribution to less border control.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e292	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 775]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e308	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e315	The Progress Party has put forward a proposal to introduce free municipal taxation and state-wide price financing for the primary welfare services. There's really nothing surprising in it. In Stortinget we have for a long time heard representatives from the Progress Party argue for a similar view. I note that the Progress Party is completely isolated in this matter. The game does not have a connection from any other group. The setting tells us that a large number of Stortinget actively rejects the proposal. The proposers argue against framework funding, as we have today. In fact, this is the main form of funding for the local government sector. She has very broad connection here in the house. The party of progress is on a collision course with the rest of the Stortinget when it is claimed that the framework funding leads to gaming situations. The fact that, at times, there may be tensions in the fight for funds for various municipal welfare tasks, tensions that often go between different levels of government, is no evidence that the claim of the Progress Party is correct. In an open and democratic system, we must live with this struggle, this struggle for means. State price financing of the basic welfare tasks is one of the main points of the Progress Party proposal. It is obvious that such a system will weaken the role of municipalities as the central actor in the production of services. When the municipalities are to be the owners of the basic school and operate it, when the municipalities are to be responsible for the care of the elderly around the country, it must be right to allow the municipalities to determine how the provision is to be financed and managed. I am overconfident that the proposal from the Progress Party will in turn make it difficult for municipalities to plan and manage the welfare of their citizens. The clear impact of the proposal will be the emergence of local and local politicians working in the field. The proposers make it a point that the municipal self-government must have a real content. It'll be, among other things. Indicates that the voters and local politicians should be given increased control. The effect of the proposals of the Progress Party will be the opposite. Local politicians get fewer say than now when it comes to defining welfare. It will relate to content, scope and quality. And it'll be a clear step back. The working party strongly believes that the design of the provision of basic school pupils and those in need of care for the elderly should be done locally as far as possible. The global community must define the external framework and be involved in providing satisfactory funding in order to ensure equivalent supply. But a market-inspired system, as the Progress Party suggests, we will work actively against it. Free municipal tax holders are the second main point of the proposal from the Progress Party. The proposers are one-sidedly concerned that the proposed system should generate greater revenues for the municipalities. Many might at first be fascinated by that idea. The point that the Progress Party does not reflect on is the impact that the proposal will have on the tax-deprived municipalities. They have a few resources left out. They have little chance of getting bigger profits from their inhabitants. In any case, they will be short on the funding of local provision in relation to the tax-based municipalities. A free municipal tax system will reduce the country's ability to streamline revenue and expenditure between municipalities. Even if there are weak aspects of our income system, at least it has some solidarity function. It creates definitely greater equality between municipalities and helps to provide citizens with more equivalent services. The chance of such a smoothing effect will be materially weighed with the proposals of the Progress Party. Many of the philosophy behind the proposal from the Progress Party is undoubtedly to have a market-adapted solution introduced. The party must be allowed to mean that. But it is gratifying that a broad majority in Stortinget rejects the proposal. The Labour Party believes that we should have good political governance with our basic welfare provision. We do not achieve that by supporting the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e343	The right and the other government parties are part of the majority in this case which today rejects the proposal to introduce free municipal taxpayers and a state-owned single-cost financing of the private welfare services. I am of the opinion that these issues cannot be assessed separately from the general funding of the local government sector. The government has recently set up a new income system committee to assess the entire municipal funding system. This is also where these questions belong, and I am convinced that they will be thoroughly evaluated. The issue of local tax freedom was last discussed by the Income System Committee as late as 1997. The selection did not go into local tax freedom, primarily because it would make macroeconomic governance of the municipal sector more difficult. In the 1999 municipal proposal, a limited pilot scheme was proposed, but this was not adopted by Stortinget. I think it might be right in this context to stress that the Right Party and the Advance Party share the same view when it relates to the importance of the real content of local self-government. This applies to the principle that the benefits of the values created by the community are to be as much as possible reaped locally. These include: the idea of returning part of the corporate tax to the municipalities and the principle that money should follow the patient as closely as possible. Nevertheless, we need to ensure that municipalities have the opportunity to manage the economy according to local needs, and have the necessary local freedom to prioritise both resource use and get the most back on the money. The theory behind the proposal to introduce free municipal taxpayers may sound fascinating, although experience suggests that the problem would not be local, but perhaps more so in this room. A so-called free taxpayer would have to have a maximum limit, and it could very easily be a minimum rate for local taxation. We've seen that before. In fact, municipalities currently have an opportunity to determine their local taxpayer, but for several reasons all municipalities are at the maximum rate. Even I was in the presidency of the then Sem Municipality, which in 1977 was the last municipality in this country that had a lower local taxpayer than the maximum rate. It was a careful municipality, with lower taxpayers than all other municipalities, with total municipal taxes on water, sewerage, renovation and sweeping of 162 kroner and 50 cents, and the municipality even had money in the bank. Those who put an end to a lower taxpayer were then the government and the big business, who got the idea that since the municipality could afford to have a lower taxpayer, they had to have such good advice that they could tolerate a similar feature in the framework transfer. As a result, the bill was twice as large, and few citizens want to thank their local politicians for a significantly reduced service provision, just because some principles were to be observed. Thus, the municipality felt compelled to increase the local taxpayer to the maximum rate. Something makes me think that this might happen again. Anyone who has to regulate municipalities and counties in detail could easily lead to new creative proposals for redistribution. So it kind of turns out to be gone. For me, this dilemma is a crucial argument in saying that the proposal has been promoted here by the representatives of Torbjørn Andersen, Per Sandberg and Gjermund Hagesetter, must be assessed in a more comprehensive context, and it could be done in the newly reduced income system committee. Then we will also be able to discuss systems that will really ensure local freedom of action, including creative ideas in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e358	In our view, the proposal of the Progress Party to introduce free municipal taxpayers and a direct state price financing of the basic welfare services in the municipalities is a correct and forward-looking proposal – although all other parties on the Stortinget today are opposed to the proposal, as said in their speech. The Progress Party is of the opinion that the current framework funding system is not the optimal and most appropriate system for financing the municipal sector. The current framework funding system does not create equivalent municipal offers and does not in any good way promote the interest in local democratic participation or electoral participation. The framework funding system, on the other hand, leads to dramatic differences between municipalities in the quality, level and extent of municipal services, particularly in the care of the elderly. Therefore, the current funding system can be replaced with a State single-cost financing system, as proposed by the Progress Party, where the money from the State follows the users and is channelled directly to either the public institution, private enterprise, foundation or others that perform and produce welfare services for the municipality, and then to the inhabitants. The aim of the Progress Party is to strengthen and provide the municipal self-government with more real content. However, this presupposes that municipalities are provided with tools that give citizens and local politicians more control over their own municipality. So soon we would have to talk more than just about increased municipal autonomy, as most people do today. It is unfortunate to present the challenges of the local government sector almost exclusively as a financial problem, which can only be solved by transferring more money to municipalities. On the other hand, municipalities themselves must have greater opportunities to influence and take responsibility for their own resource use, as well as better predictability of their economic needs and revenues. Free municipal taxpayers, combined with state price financing, will strengthen the ability of municipalities to provide better and more equivalent welfare services to their citizens. The rights of individual citizens to be guaranteed equivalent welfare schemes need to be more independent of whether there is a good or poor local economy in the respective municipalities. This is better ensured by a single-cost financing system. Free municipal taxpayers will also be able to enhance the interest of local democracy by making party political differences more visible. This, in turn, will stimulate increased electoral participation and better recruitment to local policies. It is also true that Norway is likely to be in a jumbo place in terms of municipal self-determination. The central government of the local government is alarmingly strong in Norway compared to a number of other countries. Getting strong central government inhibits the necessary local initiative and commitment, and this is clearly negative for the local level of government in the long term. It is hoped that the proposals of the Progress Party on the free tax eye and the direct state price financing of the primary welfare services will become a reality sooner or later. Unfortunately, the proposal still seems to be a good deal ahead of time, but we have gradually become accustomed to it in the Progress Party. I bring this up with the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e377	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e380	For SV, funding for the local government sector is at the heart of a good distribution policy, creating a society that balances differences and makes everyday life viable for everyone. We also believe that it is a core factor in the value creation of business that we have a municipal sector that works well. Like the Progress Party, SV is committed to looking at how the income system works. It is true that the framework has its weaknesses, especially when the bulk of the population does not follow up on their own orders and promises with money, or does not take the municipalities seriously when they point out that there are quality deficiencies. When they themselves have ambitions about e.g. wanting to have a much better school for their citizens, they want to give their older people a good service, or they want to take environmental problems as they have locally, seriously, and want opportunities to finance it, there are problems in this system today. In some areas, unit-price financing may be correct, and it also works this way today, but SV does not agree that it is the best system in general. In the last election, Carl I. Hagen was out there talking about the money coming automatically. It sounds very fascinating that when you want to, you just press a button, and then the money comes automatically. That is the way a unit-price financing is supposed to be. I think that there must be a politically quite conscious attitude to what arrangements it is that should be such that they trigger money automatically. The money to come automatically must be financed in some way. That side of the calculation, what such automatic release of money should say for the general level of taxation, presents the Progress Party very rarely. If you trigger money automatically, I think the need for money will increase significantly. The second problem with this is that the individual in society is getting more and more involved in a kind of customer relationship. You are left to both quality assurance and to be the informed consumer in all aspects of your life. In some areas, SV believes that where we have a political responsibility to ensure such quality assurance, and to provide services that do not require people to spend absolutely all the time running around and quality assurance absolutely all the offers at all times. As politicians, we have a responsibility to do that. In the case of freer municipal taxpayers, SV has made proposals on this at the latest in the Netherlands. S. No 259 on the local economy. We wanted a review of the property tax law, both to make it fairer and to make it possible for it to function equally throughout the municipality. But the most important thing, we think, is that the municipalities are given a limited opportunity to release a freer municipal taxpayer for time-limited periods, in line with what a comprehensive political investigation by the KS has now presented. We know that in some large municipalities the richest and the poorest in the country are gathered, for example. in Oslo. It would have been in place with a small solidarity project in Oslo, where, for example: could have been invested in school, could have been invested in cultural and sporting activities, could have organized this city for disabled people, or could have been better taken care of by the poor. If you could go to elections on something like this in Oslo that you had a solidarity project there that would have been a little different than what you can do now, we think that Oslo's people would have been able to say yes or no to it. We believe it is wrong that Stortingen refused them such an opportunity. It is true that such an opportunity will not work as well in all municipalities, but what would be the problem with that? The municipalities that want it could do it, and the municipalities that don't want it didn't have to do it. There shall be no need to weaken the co-financing of the State. So you can trigger an income potential that is not now triggered. As it is now, it will actually strengthen democracy that there will be a slightly shorter way between what we're paying in and what we get out of it. We think that will strengthen local democracy and make people feel that they are involved in something that is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e397	The whole municipal funding system should be in noise pesqueia. The Christian People's Party does not believe that the last words are said either when it comes to price or local taxation. Everything is related to everything, it's said, and the Christian People's Party believes in a total review of the Income System Selection rather than doing something about a private bill here in Stortinget. Local democracy is a very important value for the Christian People's Party. I'm afraid that the piece price shifts power and maybe also the possibility of sensible solutions, out of the municipal government hall. But the price system also has its advantages. The Christian People's Party admits it. It is clear, and in pure-bred form unbureaucratic and simple. However, the weakness is that it is difficult to capture the differences in a long-distance Norway. That a student should cost the same in Oslo as in Røst is unimaginable. A class of e.g. Eight elephants also need an entire teacher. We are concerned that even in the districts should the possibility of the good life exist. The single-price system that the DRG in our hospitals has done for several patients to be treated, and I myself am not completely negative to the way of thinking. The Christian People's Party is also relatively positive to the possibilities for municipalities to determine their own tax system to some extent. The Christian People's Party has said that we will go for it, but it must be seen in conjunction with other parts of the income system. I would like to mention in passing the property tax, which should also be adapted so that municipalities with perhaps an atypical structure can benefit from it, and thus determine parts of their income. The fact that small industrial and commercial districts are taxing property on their works and uses is unwise and almost unreasonable. They need more people to establish themselves, so they need to give benefits to the business community. But the same municipality can be a cottage paradise. The property tax should therefore be flexible and voluntary according to the Christian People's Party's view. The Christian People's Party will provide flexibility so that the arrangements can adapt to reality. Municipalities must be able to take care of their comparative advantages while having a bearing on their income. We believe that the new income system selection will certainly provide us with the basis for designing better funding systems. The question raised in this matter must be considered in conjunction with the financing of the municipal sector in general. That's why our attitude is what she is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e410	The central party believes that decentralization and popular rule are the central foundations for a positive development in society. There is good reason to be concerned about a trend towards ever-increasing centralization and concentration of power. When power is shifted from local to central level, from government to bureaucracy, and from social support to market thinking, it does not always create the best solutions. It creates popular renunciation. We believe that a long-term strategy is needed to ensure local freedom of action and local involvement for the best possible service provision. We have a recent municipal and county election, with low electoral elections, and with the subsequent discussion of measures to strengthen local democracy. There are two proposals in relation to it in our committee, one from the Left and one from the Center Party. We're going to come back to them. There is no doubt that part of the amortization that you know locally has to do with your local authorities' finances. Now we have a government that has stated in its declaration that growth in the public sector should be less than growth in the private sector. We have a government that shows a lack of will for a long-term strategy to correct the imbalance between tasks and income that the municipalities are currently struggling with. From the Central Party's point of view, we believe that both the restructuring of debt, a multi-year escalation plan to correct the imbalances we see when it comes to the economy, and the introduction of funds that are consistent with tasks and revenues, are very important steps. There are two amendments to be made here by the party of progress. The one is unit price financing and a greater government involvement in the municipalities. We are surprised at the exaggerated belief of the Progress Party that the state can solve tasks in ever more areas. Karin Andersen was also involved in the price financing, and he produced it as if the money would come from himself. In addition, it is produced in such a way that only the country takes over, whether it is care of the elderly or school, most of it is solved. I want the Progress Party to look a little bit at areas that are currently state-owned, where there is no equivalent offer, even though there are actually some strict laws that have to regulate exactly that. I'm thinking about both the Dry Detaten and the Aetat. It is a fact that there are different supply in different parts of the country. The second piece is free tax ears, with some constraints. The centre party wants municipalities to have more possibilities than today to print taxes for a period of time, to solve special tasks. At present, local authorities have very little potential to influence their own incomes. We insist that the state has a primary responsibility for financing public welfare, but we point out that the property tax, as it is today, is both unfair and unfair. We have faith in good local democratic processes if we allow the municipalities to increase taxing for periods, to resolve a priority they want. It shall not be at the cost of what the State provides. I'm surprised that the council of state at a collection this summer rejected this because there would be such a difference in small and large municipalities. She needs to be aware that in a small municipality, 200,000 kroner from or to income can actually have a lot to say, compared to million dollars in a larger municipality. So I'm going to ask her to look again at the possibility of freer tax assets for a period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e425	The left is too freer tax law for the municipalities – it may be a bit childish to talk about who is first with things, so I will not comment on it to the Progress Party – but we are very opposed to state-wide price financing of municipal services. The first can contribute to increased local maritime governance. The second can contribute to the very opposite, and will reduce the municipalities of an organizer of practical services. Local democracy is something far more. In the view of the Left, the combination of these things, on which the proposal of the Progress Party is based, is not a good solution. We can therefore join the majority remarks in the vote. This time, too, opposition parties have been praised by the Honorary Orders of Local Freedom and Local Maritime Government, not least the Socialist Left Party, which according to the Power Survey is the most centralist of the parties. Furthermore, in the opinion of the Left, the SV does not fully understand the lack of coherence between what they say and what they do. But we hope the recognition comes eventually. Good statements are positive, and we hope that gradually it will force itself to see what is said in theory, in practice. The gap is not to live with in the long run. In the analysis of the Powers Investigation, the Progress Party came as a good number. 2 at the top of the centralisation. That party is also very much talking about increased municipal freedom, but is still proposing measures in the opposite direction. Since the Progress Party likes to call the proposals of all other parties in another subject area ‘naïve’, I can also call the Progress Party’s proposal to finance municipal services naively. It is well intended, but it bears a strong impact of desktop theory. When the money is not to go through the local government and is allocated according to an overall assessment of the needs, but directly to the individual holding, public or private, it is easy to see how much rational resource use and great practical problems can result. Since each customer is free to choose where to buy the services at any time, it will be impossible to plan investment and operations on the basis of some degree of stability. A school or a nursing home can go well one year, to perhaps lose half of the customers the next year. It will have dramatic consequences, not least for the customers who are left, and who may no longer have an offer because there are not enough to ensure the operation. The left does not like to call citizens customers. They're citizens. The role of citizens is something more than being a user of municipal services. It involves co-responsibility for the whole community, for the balance between different offers and priorities between resources that are always scarce, no matter what you want. Through elections, democratic processes and transparency, citizens have a responsibility that goes beyond their own seas, longer than that of a customer. The flute parts have the privilege of always appearing as someone who always has the money for everything, and they can therefore escape saying no to anything they are for. It cannot be done with financial responsibility, whether in the private economy, in a company or in the public sector. Nor can a single price scheme eliminate this reality. And we can risk the pure chaos if such a system is to be implemented. If the sum of the contributions of individual customers is greater than the current framework transfer, the effect of disseminating resources in a totally unpredictable way will be that perhaps no institution will have enough to operate properly. This is not the way schools and hospitals can be treated. They're not pickles. Local democracy and the local maritime administration are about local responsibility for managing Community resources within a democratic process, and by taking into account all needs and desires that can be realised within a given framework. By excluding the local government from this balance and priority, the government of the people is dramatically weakening. A State single-cost system would also mean a massive discharge of responsibility, for whom should liability be placed when the system does not work, and the sum of the customers' money is no longer enough to maintain the school of the building? The responses to the governance system of the health reform will be as debatable as compared to the storms you will see whether this desktop theory should be put into practice. Karin Andersen presented a model that she suggested would be used in Oslo, and for which I have a great sense. Such selection contracts have now been concluded within the framework of Oslo today, for example. for the rehabilitation of school buildings. Thinking of models in that form also has a big left for it. Finally, I would just like to say that the Left joins the majority's proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e447	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e450	Anita Apelthun Seele said that our proposal and its implementation would shift power from the municipal government hall. That's absolutely correct. It will shift power from the local government hall, from politicians and bureaucrats to the users. And what's most democratic is when the users, the individuals themselves, decide. Especially when I listen to the previous speeches, I wonder how in the world we can really get all the other services that we have in our daily lives and that the local government does not care about. It says in the vote from the majority that they ‘points to the fact that state price financing will weaken the role of municipalities in deciding on the provision of services. Municipalities will lose their financial means on transition to such a scheme. In turn, this will make it difficult for municipalities to plan and manage the welfare services needed by their inhabitants.’ Indeed, residents of Norway need much more services than those mentioned here. In fact, we sometimes need electrical services, hairdressing services and hotel services. We need services to repair the car and perhaps to change the glass in our windows. We sometimes have some pipes that crack, and then we need a service from a plumber. We need grocery stores, shoe shops, clothing stores, etc., where no one has any problems with the service offer. There is no local government or county council that makes a plan for the car workshop service that the residents need. And the weird thing is that that's where the public authorities have deprived users of the freedom of choice and the right to decide for themselves, we all have the problems. With State-funded unit-price financing, it will be the ordinary system that works in all other areas. We will let go of the public planning bureaucracy by the fact that the individual actors are the ones who make decisions. It was said that it could be difficult to operate a nursing home because there might not be enough people who came there, but this is actually how hotels and restaurants and other services are run, and there you can do. If we take care of the users first, and not the people who run the business, it's all right for the users that there are actually more hospitals that advertise and say, "Come to us!" You can take your old one, your mother or your father, and choose between three places, and the payment will be the same. This system is what works in all other areas! But then other politicians doubt that we must not lose our own role. People don't care about local democracy until they talk about local democracy. No, you actually say, as the Left says, that the inhabitants are for the sake of the politicians and bureaucrats, not the other way around. That's where the big difference is. The Progress Party puts citizens’ concerns ahead of politicians and bureaucrats, who may lose some jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e468	It is quite right that part of this debate is about the core of democracy – whether we should only be customers in a free market, or whether we should be citizens of a country and be responsible for each other together – and that we should organise it in different ways. I have to admit that different services are needed in the phases of life. You have different needs. It's actually not every day that each of us has the power to deal with all the services and tasks that society needs, and that's why we've chosen to organize this together. SV also wants us to fund this jointly. We think that people sometimes need not to be the one who, in all the situations of life, is going to quality their own offerings. When I get sick, I actually want health care. I don't want to sit and browse a shiny catalogue to find out which hospital or hospital is best. I want there to be some elected representatives who are responsible for me having that offer. It is not that each individual, as each customer, should have some kind of customer power and then surf around: No, this school is not good enough for my youngster, and then I switch to another! So, we think in many of these areas, we're the most socially useful people that we have a system where we do it together. It's one area that's very central to people, that doesn't work at all, but that's a free market. Yes, ‘not at all’ is not correct, but it only works for those who have money. This is about housing, which is "basic" in order to have a good life. So that market doesn't work: if you don't have money, you don't get housing. People still live on the streets in Norway. That's the way it is. In the case of freer municipal taxpayers, SV is very concerned that there should be some good local issues to go to elections on. We think it is an important matter, and we are still quite amazed at the Left, which is constantly attacking SV, which is the party that believes that the municipal sector should be allowed to decide over a much larger part of the cake. We believe that it is more important for the people of Oslo that they, for example: had been able to take out some of the tax base they have, rather than having to get out of their schools and have a bad public transport. We thought it was a bad solution when this government, with the Left in, for example. removed the dividend tax, which directly affected Oslo's tax income by half a billion dollars, as reported by Oslo's politicians. It would have been better if you could have financed it through the tax bill. It would have given much more power to the Municipality of Oslo, to the inhabitants of Oslo and to the politicians of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e481	It is certain: in this area, the Right Party and the Advance Party agree on the need to look at the greater degree of freedom of choice, but we are completely in disagreement about the context in which it is to be done. We believe that this should be done within the context of local democracy, and that one can actually combine price financing models, chosen by local democracy, with models that give freedom of choice. And I want to tell you why the difference is there. I think Carl I. Hagen's posts now were very representative because he didn't understand what the problem with his own models is, that he compares the markets from which we all pay for the services, and the markets from which the public pays the services. The difference is, of course, that when we pay ourselves, we're talking about how much we buy from who, but at the moment that the public is going to pay, someone in the public rations is going to have to give out how much to give. Either the state or the municipality have to do that, and then we think the municipality is better at having good individual-oriented solutions close to the users than the state would be. So if you don't want to have some kind of limitations on what kind of home care services you get, not any constraints on what individual needs you have, then Carl I. Hagen tells you how much taxes are going to go up in this country in order to be able to finance it. All countries that have models, for example: on hospital funding or on other schemes that do not involve individual ratios — e.g. The United States, linked to insurance-funded health plans, has been in this dilemma when the cost spiral goes amok. You have to rationalize it in a very different way. As a result, insurance companies in the United States have created other types of financial instruments, because they were not doing well. Carl I. Hagen has as his mantra that this will both give better freedom of choice and more services, but he never tells us who to rationalize, and in what way to rationalize. Because it's not like every person can get as many homework hours as you want, that anyone should be able to choose exactly which nursing home, even if you've set a price, when you're going to be admitted to a nursing home. And it is not only a medical assessment to be made at that time, but also an assessment of whether the home-based services, for example, are good enough, getting a good enough offer at home, in a nursing home or in an old-age home. Some have to make that choice, and I actually think it's good that local democracy does it. The most important local democracy is actually excellent to do, is to determine the school structure in this country. Because geography means so much different. State price financing for primary school will result in shifting the whole issue of school structure away from local democracy. Then we have emptied the local democracy of one of their most important issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e492	It could be interesting to have a longer debate about this, to find out who is misunderstanding about who. I will admit one thing in relation to the proposal of the Progress Party: it is possible that we have a pedagogical problem with regard to getting the Storting, and in particular the Council of State, to understand what is the intention of our proposal, with our thoughts around it, because in fact I think we agree. Governments are always talking about rationing. If we are to have some rationalization, there are at least some political decisions that have to be made in relation to it. We have a DRG system, with which we have some experience, and on which we are based. In addition, we do not have any rationale in terms of sick pay, day-care arrangements, etc. That's where the money follows the user. Karin Andersen said something like that she herself wanted to decide which politicians would decide when she was going to have healthcare. Who is Andersen's representative contacting for health care? She does not contact the individual hospital, the individual institution, she goes to the doctor in case. And in that case, it is essential that the money follows the user, because then she will decide what services she wants. Here, there are misunderstandings from the other parties that it is easy to clarify, so that we come to an understanding of a solution that is in the best interests of the Norwegian people. The fact that we are going to introduce a single price and then the municipalities are going to operate in a way is also a misunderstanding. We have not said that the municipalities will stop operating. That is what is meant by the money coming from the local social security office, possibly from the local school office. For us, it is not a principle that we should have some private people to operate schools and healthcare. Our principle is that we should have choice, freedom of choice and competition in this field. I should not be surprised if the municipal operators today would also get the best out of such a competition. The point is that users should be given greater freedom of choice. The rapporteur was concerned about this with increased income for the municipalities. But do we have to have some constraints on that? Is it not possible for the individual to determine, from his place of residence, how high the income of the municipalities should be by having a free taxpayer? We don't have to put any constraints on it. I believe – like the representative Karin Andersen – that there must be increased resources here. The councils were in on it, too. But in this house, SV and the Progress Party agree that it must increase resources. The way these increased resources come must be immaterial as long as we receive increased resources for these areas, in order to strengthen the provision of services. It is quite right, what Mr Hagen said, is that it is in the areas where we have governance, where we have framework transmission, the shortcomings lie. And then it has to be possible to get together on a solution, so that we can solve these problems instead of just disagree on a verbal level, because we have a common interest in solving the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e511	I understand that SV gets a little tired when I say such things as I said in my previous post. We have a great sense of each other's positions in many areas, but not exactly in this area. I still think it's strange to show Oslo as an example, especially when you've never had as much bet in school as you have now, and you've had an increase of 70 pst. in the case of transfers to public transport since SV had power. But that's it. What is interesting about this debate is the fundamental differences it brings together in the field of public services, the idea that trade in services can be transferred directly to Community solutions. When the car mechanic goes bankrupt, the car has to be dragged a little longer – and there is a difference between the car being dragged a little longer and the grandmother being dragged a little longer. It is also rare to visit the car while it is in the workshop. It is sometimes the case that some people have to have some opinions about how the community's solutions should be in general terms and not just in terms of individual positions. In the village from which I come, the hotel is so important that if the hotel had gone badly, other businessmen would have stepped in to keep it going – because it is so important to have a hotel right there. That means that seas in the world of market mechanisms are sometimes the community has to intervene to maintain some community solutions that are important for our whole society to actually go around. It's right here, it's going to be the big break. But this, as Carl I. Hagen now suggests, has been tried. It's been tried, and it didn't go very well. It has been tried out to the extreme in a Danish municipality, which meant that the local council eventually ended up as a small, closed AS board that only had some secret trade agreements, and that moved the trade agreements a little here and there. It ended in various legal cases, and it ended in a decrease of belief in the local People's Government. We must distinguish between what is a market economy, what belongs to the market, what belongs to Community solutions and to our security network. It must be the approach of local democracy to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e526	I redrawed myself to answer the questions from the Council of State. She said, "Who's going to rationalize?" And who's going to grant rights? Exactly the same ones that do it today! It is clear that there are public offices that decide on Mrs. Nilsen and Mr. Hansen qualifies for a nursing home or a nursing home, or qualifies for a certain number of home care hours per day. week. This system shall be intact. We will merge Aetat, social services, social security offices and some other things into a welfare office, which will be responsible for all welfare systems. It is the public that should be responsible – just as it is today. But when Mrs. Nilsen gets 8 hours of home help from this public council, our system is so that Mrs. Nilsen herself will choose who will do the home help hours. Where appropriate, she shall have the right to use family members, she shall have the right to use organisations, the congregation, which may organise home help activities, the home help service of the Rican chain or the municipal home help service. If she's satisfied, everything's fine, but if there's still new people coming, and she's dissatisfied, she should be able to choose another supplier. Today, Mrs Nilsen does not have those rights. She is facing a monopoly supplier who may offer a miserable offer without her having any opportunity to make a real complaint, or choose someone else. That's what we want to do in all of these areas. Then it's from Karin Andersen talking about the private wallet. I wish the representative Andersen could hear what I am saying now. We have said that it should be a co-financing of solidarity through the public – as it is today. But we no longer want to accept differences from municipality to municipality. That is why we want government funding. That is what we have in the area of rights finance for other services. We have it when it comes to failure. Why on earth do not Karin Andersen and others go in for disability benefits to be paid out of the municipal budgets – i.e. local democracy? It is completely parallel to that of nursing homes and hospitals — or to pay for a hospital operation. Fortunately, it is now done from the state treasury, even if it is destroyed because the ISF goes down. In the case of maternity leave and sick pay, there is no framework or roof. If there had been a framework grant for the sick pay and the money had been spent in November, you would have had to say that unfortunately there will be no sick pay on you! No, that's not a thank-you. The legislation to govern this shall, of course, be laid down by law. Of course, it should be just as we do, in the case of disability benefits, old-age pensions and payments on maternity leave and a variety of different schemes that go under state funding. There's one argument I understand, and that's that we're shutting out a task from local government and local agencies. But it will serve the users. We cannot have it so that the users and the inhabitants are for the sake of the politicians instead of the other way around!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e539	It's nice sometimes to have principal discussions in Stortinget too! I would like to stress the difference between the question of the financing of nursing homes and welfare tasks such as school, day care and birth fees. These are rights acquired in relation to a tax you pay directly. Your rights have been derived from the fact that you have paid into an insurance system managed by the government of Norway. In other countries it may be different. There are a lot of people who don't get a day's pay because they don't meet the criteria in the law to get it, even if they're out of work. It's people who haven't been in working life long enough to earn this right. It is also the case that one third of the country’s birthers do not receive maternity benefits — i.e. pay during the leave period — because they have not been in the labour market for long enough. So this right is earned and derived from a tax payment – directly. And then the big question is, is that this is how you're going to get different types of rights between different groups. No, there is a difference between service financing and income protection financing. You can discuss how much, and whether it should be like this or not. You can, for example: discuss whether daily allowances should be removed from the public sector. In Denmark, the trade unions administer the day-to-day pay system – not the public system – and have boxes. In many countries this is insurance-based, not state-based. So it's an insurance scheme. That is something that has been addressed in relation to direct financing. If it had been the model you had chosen, and you were to derive from direct tax payments the rights you had in old age, it would have been interesting to see the parallel between old age care and day care. If not, I actually don't see the parallel. Then I think it was revealing – so it has to be rationalized. Yes, you have to be honest and say that the complaint in relation to the framework transmission system today does not apply to the framework transmission system itself, but that we need to rationalise how much we have, both in relation to the number of people working in the sector – we do not have enough labour there – and in relation to how much resources we have. Then there is a question of money, not a question of system! I think that the system printed out as a national system can be good for implementation in many municipalities, because it is closer and closer, and we can have cooperation between different parts of the public sector, which will affect the quality of care for the elderly, and for which local forces beyond the public one can mobilise. I think we get more direct and better user-oriented services. I fully agree that we should make choices. There are seven-eight municipalities – a little depending on the political majority that became it after the municipal elections – which are currently planning to introduce user choices into the care of the elderly according to a model the Ministry of Local Affairs is now making. We make a network and we work with them on this, precisely because we want to achieve the same goals. But we don't think this should be a national problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e554	Karin Andersen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e557	I agree with the Council of State in one of the last things she said, namely that this is about the distribution of the great social shock. Are we going to have more money for welfare, care and school, or are we going to have more money for taxation? That's what's at the heart of this, and that's where I and SV think the Progress Party trickles people when they say that we can get both in bag and bag: One should both get a system where a trigger money is completely automatic, and it shouldn't cost anything either, because the bill that's at the other end here hides the Advance Party and Carl I. Hagen. The funding, where the money comes from, is of course very important. But it's like, in some areas, you have rights in addition to what you've worked out. It's always a political question who should have such rights. For SV, it is important that e.g.: disabled people, who cannot claim their democratic rights themselves in the same way that we who are in a state of disability should have rights established by law in addition to what we others have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e564	Carl I. Hagen has had the word twice before, and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e568	How violent it was, then, how governments now misunderstand relatively simple things! State Council Solberg now totally misunderstands what I said, or she chooses to pretend she misunderstands it. I didn't say we should have any rationale about the resources. I said we should have a rationale about the needs. Of course, there are a lot of people who would like free household help – I understand that. But that's where we're going to have a rationale -- compared to those who really need it, that meets the criteria that public authorities have set for getting home help, home care, or nursing homes. It is the assessment to be made by the public. It is the assessment made today by the public and their representatives when someone is ill, when someone needs hospitalization and when someone needs hospitalization. But it's just that when someone gets sick, the money comes automatically, without anyone saying that the money is spent. That's the principle we also want in terms of paying for nursing homes, home care, home care, etc. It's something completely different. Here I think, unfortunately, the Council of State chose to act as if she misunderstood. It is the Storting that has decided that certain schemes depend on the payment of taxes. The size is free to change those arrangements as well, if it is about to do, so that there is a completely incalculable argument on the part of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e575	First, the representative from the Left, Trine Skei Grande, who referred to the unfortunate project that was in Farum. Whether that's also saying that it was a success, because the users were very satisfied. The fact that some politicians began to gamble with the capital of the municipality in the form of buying up sports parks etc. is another side of the matter. Of course, I should have liked to have said which politicians it was, and which party they came from, without me doing it. But we have another example, from the municipality of Nakka in Sweden, on which the representative from the left of course was not involved. There's a success here. User surveys have been carried out along the way, and users have only become more and more satisfied. There you expand your use with the money following the user. The project also includes neighbouring municipalities and local authorities, and it is growing in size. I'm a little surprised. If I have misunderstood, I hope that at some point the Council of State can rectify it, but on the basis of her statements in relation to rights, I interpreted it there that the Council of State will have limited rights for people who need institutional space and limited rights in relation to the need for schooling. That was where the distinction was compared to the fact that the money was automatically accompanied by sick pay and daily allowance. We couldn't do that in connection with the fact that the money would follow the user in terms of institutional space, because there were no rights there. Then it's just a question of whether you want to prioritize. If you want rights, you decide this in the house, so you get the same system. So limited rights in relation to nursing homes, institutional space, etc. We can decide for ourselves. I also think it is negative that the money should be automatically triggered by choices. I really don't see any difference there today. Isn't it true that if a municipality gets a student, it automatically triggers money to the municipality? If a municipality receives users, either in the form of care for the elderly or otherwise, it automatically triggers money from the state through the framework of the municipalities. That's the same thing, just that you get a more democratic and direct need-driven funding here, which is more accurate than the one you have today. The debate is interesting. It is clear that what Mr Sandal said in his main speech is right that there is a great difference between the Progress Party and the Workers' Party. It's because the Workers' Party thinks history in relation to a system, while the Progress Party is thinking ahead with its system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e588	I note with some satisfaction that the proposal by the Progress Party has created some debate today. I think that's a pleasure. I just want to mention some of the things that maybe have already been said. As far as individual rights are concerned, it is important for the Progress Party that it is the individual citizen, as the representative Carl I. Hagen said, and not the politicians of the Municipal Council, we are primarily concerned with ensuring the conditions for. I think that if we get a system where the money follows the user, it will stimulate a positive diversity of offers that will be an advantage, not least in terms of the freedom of choice of users. There is, of course, a single-cost financing system in this proposal, i.e.: accompanying the user and allowing public or private institutions, service providers, to provide welfare services to user groups. With regard to the relationship between politicians and individuals in a municipality, this proposal is intended to strengthen the individual, although there are also aspects to the proposal that will go to strengthen local democracy as such. This applies to free taxation. But at this point of intersection, it is important, as I said, to ensure the individual individual, the individual, against under-financial appropriations in relation to the needs involved, so that the State has to take responsibility for this. The State must take responsibility through a single-cost financing system. I believe that today's framework financing system, which was probably introduced in 1986, has not been as successful as you might have thought at the time. It's been patched up on some along the way. But we still see today that there are large and perhaps sometimes dramatic differences between municipalities in terms of level, scale and quality of service provision. As I said in my post, this applies primarily to the care of the elderly, where we are still seeing, not least on TV and in other media, partly to serious failure of the care of the elderly because of the weak local economy. Had the system we're proposing, existing, not bad local economy had the same dramatic outcome. I therefore hope that this debate can at least form a further basis for looking at the alternative funding system for the municipal sector in the Progress Party and, as I said at the end of my speech, hopefully our funding system will become a reality once.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e603	Let me just give two short notes to some of the posts. First of all, I think it's really nice that Per Sandberg uses the municipality of Nakka as an example. This is an example of the model for the Right in relation to freedom of choice, and not an example of the Progress Party in relation to freedom of choice. I want to underline it. Yes, Nakka is actually a success, but it is clear that they have municipal politicians who can more easily rationalize with their services. They don't have any carte blanche to pay money and give to everyone, but they have to create a system of freedom of choice within a given economy. It's not the model of the Progress Party, it's the Right Model of how to do it with the freedom of choice in the future. Secondly, the government will present a review of this kind of proposals in the care of the elderly. It was adopted during the throne debate, and we'll get back to it. If it is true that some public bureaucrats need to define the need for guidelines, then an incredibly detailed guide must be made for when people are entitled to something or not. There will be a violent bureaucracy to sit and assess, not least when changes occur, and a place of change is in the care of the elderly. There are gradual changes in relation to needs assessment, the needs of each individual. One of the major challenges, regardless of the single-price financing system, is just to follow up on, and have systems for, this change of needs. I think you should have learned something from the professional work that was done, related to the kindergarten message that was submitted. It is quite clear that this type of state-owned single-cost financing model contributes to less efficiency in the sector, less cost control. There is, of course, a huge white for payroll settlement where someone else is going to pay the bill – and those who are de facto responsible for the negotiation are finally without the accountability of the bill. It is one of the three things that helps me not to believe that a system of national price financing on a range of welfare tasks contributes to a more efficient or user-oriented public sector. But price financing in a local context can do so, because there is another match between who pays the bill and who actually sits and defines and measures the offer to the individual. These are major and difficult issues, which I believe the Progress Party should look at more closely – especially if the Progress Party believes they should be better at tax relief and tax reduction. What they're really adding up to is a system where the public expenditure is running smoothly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e616	I have two challenges for the Progress Party, and then I'll say something about what we think. The main reason for the imbalances and imbalances in today's income system is primarily three factors. We have an income balancing that is deeply unfair, in the sense that it distributes some smaller municipalities with lower income potential, so that the money ends up in the largest municipalities where there are most rich people, while the smaller municipalities contribute. We have a bias that would be more balanced if we had a more symmetric income system, which, fortunately, I know that the department is working on. The second is that local politicians and communities are not the most familiar with the needs of the local population, who themselves are allowed to help determine the kind of income to be generated through taxes. That is why I think it is completely incomprehensible that the Progress Party has not supported our proposals – we have not promoted them in this matter because we have dealt with them before, and we are going to deal with them again – that we should have a greater local opportunity to decide what kind of revenue you should have through the tax system, a freer municipal taxpayer. That is what we have proposed, but we have not said that it should be combined with a state priced financing. But it would have been possible. If we had followed SV's system, it would have been possible for municipalities where the Progress Party is in majority, to choose a single price financing, which is what seems to be the goal of the Progress Party. You could choose that if you had allowed more local self-government, which is what we want. It is clear that income opportunities vary from municipality to municipality. There are a number of municipalities and counties – e.g. Akershus, who has major challenges in relation to an increasing number of high school students — who had needed a little extra tax revenue now, so that they could develop their schools. This refuses to do the Progress Party in Akershus, by refusing to give the county municipalities freer municipal taxpayers. We don't understand that, if it's local democracy you want to give more money. But it's not my impression that that's what the Progress Party is doing. That's the big challenge: it's clear that the experience we've had with price financing for some things, for example. Within Aetat and in relation to the hospital sector, of course, more of what is funded through unit-price financing is shown. But you do less of other things. When you do less of the other, my challenge to the Progress Party is: Does the Progress Party believe that you should have fewer leisure clubs, fewer cultural offers and fewer public offerings?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e627	First of all, the party of progress does not want a tax in addition to today's tax. We believe that the tax burden is high enough, and if we had gone in to introduce another system in relation to the fact that the money is following the user, the SV's system will mean a tax on all the taxes that already exist. That is not the intention of our proposal. We also believe that there should be a voluntary case. What I wanted to take the floor for was in the case of Nakka. I agree with the Council of State that there is a success in Nakka. But the Right and Government systems restrict the possibility of freedom of choice for each municipality. By choosing the municipalities themselves, you get priority from 434 municipalities. This means that in some municipalities, citizens will be satisfied with their needs, while in other municipalities it will not be implemented, and you will have the same static system. Our system will make this freedom of choice for the whole nation and all its inhabitants throughout the nation. There is another thing that surprises me too, namely that it is not possible to discuss this on the basis of a future municipal structure, rather than talking about today's structure with 434 municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e636	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 776]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e652	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e661	This matter stems from a proposal from the representatives of Meltveit Kleppa and Braut. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, proposes that the Grand Government initiate specific negotiations with the South Tribute Party on an appropriate compensation for the costs of capital at the Regional Hospital of Trondheim 2000 development. The majority assume that the ordinary settlement between the State and county municipalities resulting from the state takeover of the hospitals has been completed by the Storting. The majority further argue that when the proposers propose to ask the Government to enter into negotiations with the South-Trundelag County Municipality, there is an unbridled follow-up to the agreements concluded at the time in connection with the development of the RT 2000. The majority point to the fact that Süd-Trøndelag County received exceptional funds to finance the high capital costs associated with the project. The extension of the framework grants to the county councils following the hospital reform was extended for Süd-Trøndelag based on capital costs that were otherwise covered. The majority believe that the Süd-Trøndelag was taken for expenses they would not cover over their normal framework, and that the Süd-Trøndelag had to be adequately compensated for this. However, the majority point out that this must be done without affecting the other counties. The Christian People's Party does not share the majority's view on this matter. The Christian People's Party will refer to the agreement between the State and the South Trondelag County Municipality, which underpinned the development of a new regional hospital in Trondheim. Under the agreement, the State financed up to 80 pst. of the development costs and the South Trøndelags the remaining. In this respect, I would like to refer to point 5.2 of the agreement: ‘The municipality covers the remaining costs of the expansion, including the costs of equipment and equipment for the hospital unit. The county covers half of the development costs.» The agreement committed the county to delimit the growth of expenditure on other hospital and other sectors during the construction period. The development of the regional hospital was also taken into account in the context of debt cancellation as a result of the country’s acquisition of the specialist health services. I have allowed myself to say that the South-Trunde Teams County accepted the principles underlying the hospital settlement. Point 5.3 of the Agreement states that the award of the extraordinary judgement should be based on an ongoing assessment of the total county economy. This assessment was to ensure the development of the service provision to the population of the Southern Tribes in line with other counties. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the Southern Tributes County has had a difficult economic situation for many years, and notes on this basis that the county's economy cannot be linked solely to the hospital settlement. In the light of the agreement and the difficult economic situation of the county, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has granted Sør-Trøndelag County exceptional discretionary means both for the current year and for the next year. Based on an overall assessment, the Christian People's Party considers the state's obligations in connection with the expansion of the Regional Hospital in Trondheim to be fulfilled. The Christian People's Party acknowledges that, despite this, the County Council will have significant challenges in adapting the level of expenditure to the current framework. In this situation, we cannot fail to note that the county itself is responsible for creating a balance in its own economy, but the Christian People's Party acknowledges that the state also has a responsibility to assess the financial situation of the parishes in relation to other county municipalities. The Christian People's Party will therefore take the opportunity to ask the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to follow closely the development of the Southern Trøndelag County and, in the light of developments, to assess the continuation of the exceptional means of discretion. The Christian People's Party further requests that such an assessment should also include the amount of such possible discretionary means. On behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, I am promoting the proposal put forward by these parties in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e696	The representative of Ivar Østberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e699	I would like to start the article with a clarification: the matter that we are now debating is not a rematch on the hospital settlement between the state and the South-Trundellag County. Specified that has found the final solution during previous processing in Storting. The core of the matter is whether the South-Trøndelag County Municipality will receive reasonable compensation from the State in connection with the development of a new regional hospital in Trondheim. The Labour Party thinks the county council should get it. Such a case has developed, it is probably necessary to recall that the South-Trundellag County should not be drawn twice for the cancellation of the capital expenditure of the loan to the hospital building. The State made exceptional contributions to finance the additional capital costs of the loan in the context of its expansion. These abject cases were lost when the hospital was taken over. In spite of this, on the basis of information provided to the municipal committee, the same cost of capital was deducted from the ordinary framework. There is a central point in the matter that the extension of the regional hospital was not financed through the increase in the ordinary framework of the county municipality. The case in question has led to financial difficulties for the South-Trundelage County. It in turn has given negative consequences for the activity that the county is going to do. It's not hard to understand that it can be frustrating for people and people. The pressure on the economic situation of the county community creates problems not least for the continuing training, which is a core activity. The majority of the municipal committee has not entered into a detailed discussion on the matter. Therefore, the majority has also not said anything about the financial framework for the compensation that the State should provide. But it is a condition that there is a willingness in the negotiations to take place, so that one can find a solution that is reasonable. I believe that the negotiating parties are aware of this responsibility. The majority ask the Government to present the outcome of the negotiations to the Storting in an appropriate way. I would therefore like to challenge Solberg State Council to comment on how and to what time feedback will take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e714	The right, together with the other government parties, chooses to stand firm on its proposal that Document No. 8:136 by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Arne Braut, on a special compensation to the South Trøndelag County in connection with the extension of the Regional Hospital in Trondheim [[RiT]] The background to this, which I would like to briefly recall, is that the RiT 2000 project was based on a revised agreement between the State and the South-Trundelag County of 9 September 1999. This agreement was approved by Stortinget and replaced a previous agreement between the parties, from 1996. It was assumed that the State provided a guarantee for the county borrowings for the expansion of the RT 2000, as well as transferred NOK 1-1,5 billion in extraordinary discretionary grants during the extension period. These funds were to be used unabated for the development of the RT 2000. In this context, a payment plan was drawn up and payments were made according to the plan, but were completed in 2002, as a natural consequence of the project being stopped at county level by transferring the specialist health service and including the RT 2000 to the State. So from the Right, we believe that the state's obligations are fulfilled under the current agreements. Despite the fact that exceptional beauties have been provided this year and that next year will be given, it should be recognised that the South Trondelag County has significant challenges in adapting the level of expenditure to the current framework. Now the county itself is responsible for creating a balance in its own economy, but I am going to acknowledge that the state also has a responsibility to assess the financial situation of the municipalities in relation to other counties. Therefore, in a note, government parties have also asked the Ministry to follow developments in the South-Trundelag carefully and, in the light of developments, to consider a continuation of exceptional judgement, including an assessment of the size of such judgement. I believe that this will be sufficient to ensure that the South-Trundellag County and the proposers here believe that the county municipality needs appropriate compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e727	I'll be brief. I believe that the representative Sandal made quite clear the position and opinions of the majority in this matter. I still think it is right to ask for concessions from the government parties. I have not been given any clarity, either from the Government or from the representatives of the government parties, as to whether the claims made by the majority that the capital expenditure has been deducted twice are correct or incorrect. There is a significant point in this case. I fully agree with the representatives of the government parties that Sørde-Trundelag County is in line with all other county municipalities to ensure that they have order in their own reir in relation to the framework they have. But the Progress Party also admits, of course, that if there is a wrong in relation to the extraction here, it has to be corrected. I believe it is essential, and I believe in fact that the government has already done so, by admitting that the South Tronde team will receive extra funds through the discretionary pot, has received it and will receive it. Now, in addition to the representatives from the government parties, it is said that we are going to follow the South-Trundellag even more closely in view of the fact that the South-Trundellag County is coming out even more crooked. Of course, there is a recognition that something has happened here that has gone on in the disfavor of the South-Trøndelag county councils. I want to follow up on what the representative Sandal said, because I believe that both the South-Tronde Team County Municipality and the Stortinget have good reason to get this matter settled and decided quite quickly. I will actually go a little further than the representative Sandal and ask the Council of State as soon as possible now to return to Stortinget in a suitable case, so that we get this matter out of the world, and that the South-Trundellag County also get satisfied with its claimed needs. This also applies to other areas of the county with regard to extractions. We have just had a full round in relation to the entire hospital establishment, where a number of county municipalities also claim that there have been incorrect extractions. Now we have excerpts in the field of drugs, psychiatry and child protection, where there are different opinions in county councils and governments. I believe that we are well served to clarify these matters quickly, so that not least the county councils will concentrate on providing services instead of sitting and discussing whether they have received too little or too much money.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e738	The issue is that the Storting cannot accept that a county municipality is being drawn twice for a grant that falls away, and that there is uncertainty as to whether that is what has happened. The representative Sandal said that this is ‘no rematch about hospitalization’. That's absolutely right. But there's a sort of post-clearance of several cases in which you move tasks from county councils or from the municipal sector to the state, and where there's a lot of disagreement about settlement, and always the state draws the longest straw. It is clear that there may be contractual relationships here that are correct, but there may also be evaluation themes in such transfers of money that are important to carry. On the SV side, we also agree that the county councils should be responsible for their own economy, but corruption and government also have a very great responsibility for their having an economy that is in line with the requirements and expectations that big business and government have added to this level of government. We are not sure that this Council of State and this government and the majority are following it in a good way. On the contrary, we see the pattern of wanting, by all the crossroads, to draw money from the county councils and to the state, and to use different arguments and different techniques for it. That is why we are also very concerned about how the Council of States is now going to deal with this proposal which lies here as a majority proposal, asking for the launch of specific negotiations. Then it is the opinion of the majority that there should be real talks with the South-Trøndelag County Municipality, both on the completely formal aspects of the case, where we understand that there is also a different view of what agreement is being discussed, on whether an agreement has been concluded, and on whether a new agreement is now being reached, and also on the overall theme, as the government fraction in its comments states, that this must be assessed in an overall context in relation to the overall economic situation of the South-Trøndelag County. The fact that this can also be a question of whether one considers this in relation to judgement, or whether one assesses it in relation to this matter, I can see that I can have some implications in itself that might lead to precedents for other matters. But SV wants a little detailed input from the Council of State on how she will interpret this mission, so that we can feel confident that this will happen with the intention that the majority has, because it is important, and not with the intention that the Council of State otherwise has that county councils should preferably not have more tasks. It has also now been stated in the budgetary agreement that it would have been really okay for the local government sector as such to have had even less money to deal with, because then they might have been able to cut down even more on necessary and important tasks. It's kind of an underlying agenda. From the bulk of population it has been, and is, very important that, when tasks are moved from one level of government to another, they behave neatly and properly in that process. We have a certain feeling that you're kind of sitting there looking for opportunities to put some of the bills back in the hands of someone who loses the problem. This was the case when it was about hospitalization in general. There are many who believe that this is the case when it comes to the extension that has now been introduced in relation to child protection, intoxication and psychiatry, and it is so linked to this specific matter, which was a very special agreement to set up the RIT, which was a priority task both by the South-Tronde Team of the county council and by the state, and which must therefore be dealt with in such a way that both parties accept the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e747	The centre party is very pleased that a number of people are in favour of asking the Government to initiate negotiations with the South Trondelag County to follow up the agreements that were concluded in its time in connection with the development of the RIT 2000. We think it's right, and it's a follow-up to a briefing that the committee met with the South-Trundelage County in Trondheim in winter. We assume that the ordinary statement between the state and the county councils, as a result of the state takeover of the hospitals, has been processed by the Stortinget. The development agreement between the South Trøndelag County and the State was special. There were separate financing arrangements, and that's what we think should be followed up by the state. Only through substantial State co-financing was it possible to realise this project. South-Trøndelag County received exceptional funds to finance the high capital costs associated with the project. In the extension of the framework of the county councils following the hospital reform, the south-eastern municipalities were based on capital costs covered by other means. So it's like the South-Trundellage County was pulled for expenses that they shouldn't cover over their normal framework, and that's what needs to be corrected now. That is why the South-Trundelage County must provide adequate compensation for this relationship, and this must happen without the other county municipalities becoming the framework. Thus, the government is now informed of the opening of special negotiations with the South-Trundelag County of a preliminary compensation for the extraction of the capital costs of the RIT 2000. A couple of articles have raised questions about how the Council of State interprets this mission. To that I would say, there is no room for interpretation. It's a clear mission to find a system for adequate compensation. There is a responsibility on both sides to arrive at a good and agreed solution, and the majority have led a step forward from the Council of State, and the Government presents the outcome of the negotiations to the Stortinget in an appropriate way. When it comes to progress, there can be no reason for anyone to pull it out in time. We, of course, maintain rapid progress and expect the Council of State to confirm this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e758	Let me start by saying that I think it's sad that Karin Andersen has fallen on the line that she repeatedly wants to quote me on things that I haven't said – a general suspicion. I would like to underline again, as I have done in a round earlier in this room: I have not said that I think it is sad that we have received NOK 2 billion more. I've said that it's nice that we get NOK 2 billion more for the municipal sector, as long as I can afford to finance the two billion. Then I have said that it is important to see that the long-term needs for change in the municipal sector are still high, not least in relation to the use of labour. This means that you do not have to stop the long-term work. Sometimes in the Norwegian political debate, someone tries to say that we should be cleaner and more honest. I actually think Karin Andersen should have been in this case, instead of being relatively nonchalant, populistic and simple, something I'm not used to experiencing Karin Andersen as – I've also said that once before in the storeroom. So to the matter itself. So it's like this: No, we actually don't agree with the big number, but we're of course taking the big majority's message as confirmation that they mean something different with the question of whether you're drawn twice. So we don't believe that the South-Trande team is drawn twice. If we had thought that there were reasonable grounds for the claims of the South-Trande Team, we would of course have chosen to go into other processes on our own initiative. So I just want to accept that the bulk of the population is persuaded by the South-Trundellag County, and you might have the view that everyone other than the Government is always right in the judgements that are made. That's what it looks like. What I think is a little strange is what Karin Andersen said that the bulk of the population was uncertain whether it had happened or not. I can't see that the comments of any government can be interpreted as that there is uncertainty as to whether it has happened. Here, Stortingen has taken the position that it has happened, despite the fact that the government believes it is different. The conclusion that the Storting has made must be taken into account. So we believe that what this question really should be about is whether we have fulfilled what is in the agreement on discretion and discretionary payments to the South-Trundelag County. The part of the agreement on this is that it is necessary to ensure that the southern municipalities have the same opportunity to provide a service offer in line with the other county municipalities. We have therefore admitted that Sør-Trøndelag has a difficult economic situation, not because of the outreach they get with the hospital reform, but because both Sør-Trøndelag and a few other major hospital owners, in particular the districts of regional hospitals, have had problems with the fact that in 2001 there was a relatively high consumption, which has over time been propagated into the community economy. We see that on a general basis, Süd-Trøndelag meets the need for – in order to provide a good service to its inhabitants in line with the other municipalities – just to receive a discretionary grant. I can't go per. today's date say how fast we can get done with it. If we're going to have negotiations, I assume that the bulk of the population thinks we're going to have negotiations, that we don't get carte blanche to write out a check to the South Trøndelag county for what they require, but that it's actually going to be a set of negotiations, where we're going to have premise, where we're either going to agree or not, and then we're going back to Stortinget with what must be the result. I agree that we should not draw this out in time, because it is okay to finish and settle matters, and then we will come back to Stortinget at an appropriate time. But I don't think we can stand here in this room right now and say anything about the time we can get back to Stortinget with it. If we agree, I'll somehow assume that it's not urgent to come back to Stortinget. And if the county council and the state agree, I hope that it will keep a briefing on the Stortinget, and that is not the way to oversee any agreement between two parties that negotiate. I guess that should be the case, too, that it comes in a municipal economic proposition for spring, if necessary. But we're not going to subtract this. We're going to have a pressure on it. But I assume that what it says is that there should be real negotiations, and that it is not that you have said that the South-Tronde Team is right in everything you say. Instead, the Stortinget should have given us extra money to the South Trondelag, rather than to impose negotiations on us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e775	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e779	I just notice that the Council of State gets very hurt when she is reminded of what she has said publicly. Obviously, there may be aspects to what is in an interview, which may be a little different from what you had in mind, as many of us have experienced. But I don't think there is a person in Norway who is in doubt that the Council of State Erna Solberg believes that the municipality sector in Norway has more than enough money, and that it wasn't her intention that they should get these 2.2 billion extras that they so absolutely need. So to the matter itself. On the SV side, it is clear that there is no need to come back if you agree. But I realized that what the Council of State now said, once again helped create the uncertainty that I mentioned in my first post. So, has the Council of State now realized that the message from the Stortinget is that one should find an agreement with the South-Trundellag County that means something other than what the Government has put on, or does she think that one can come back with the same result the next time, as one does otherwise?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e786	I have understood that we are going to negotiate with the South Tronde team, and that the starting point is that Stortinget believes something different about the basis for those negotiations than what we believe has been the settlement. Then I can't tell you if we're coming back again with agreement with the South Dream Team, because then you couldn't negotiate. The starting point cannot be that two parties should enter into negotiations where one party has been de facto bound up to print a check out where the size of that check is determined by the other party. At that time, the Storting should have granted money and not imposed negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e791	I record that the Council of State has perceived that she is now being asked to open separate negotiations with the South-Tronde Team. Something else wanted to be strangely surprising, as plain as it is said in this matter. It has been said from the plurality of what this debt is, and it has been said that the South-Trundelage County should provide adequate compensation in relation to what has been shown here. Then I thought it was okay that the Council of State was prepared to prevent this from being drawn out in time. I just want to underline what has been said by several of us, there is a responsibility on both sides to arrive at a good and unified solution. And it's quite clear that with the starting point that the Council of State had, before the Stortinget no said its own, there's a special responsibility for her.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e798	I perceived it most as that the committee leader was questioning that I had understood the assignment. I believe that I have understood that, while I believe that we must base the fact that there should be real negotiations, but that the basis for the negotiations will be different from what we have based on how the settlement has actually been done. I would like to stress that it may be difficult to be sure that this does not also degrade other county municipalities over time, because here is a pot to be distributed, even on discretionary means. If we are to give more to the South-Trundellag County, it is clear that in the future we will have to withhold beauty resources, for example. – as it is the contract piece in that area – from the general distribution, and to the benefit of specific principles to the South in the years to come, if we are to use that area as a form of compensation. But I think that we should now go a step further, that we should take the negotiations, and then the Stortinget might perhaps discuss a disagreement, if that would result from this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e805	: Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e817	We're going to vote on the number of cases. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e824	During the debate Per Sandberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the introduction of a new temporary residence permit which confers only the right to protection in an extended closed reception of asylum, following the Danish model ‘refused residence’.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e849	President! This is a proposal from the minority, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e856	That's right, it's a proposal from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e859	I understood it so that the president let vote either way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e866	The president's gonna give up right away, and then the president's gonna expect Per Sandberg to do the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e873	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the introduction of free municipal taxpayers, while at the same time introducing a direct state-subsidized price financing for basic welfare services such as school, health and care for the elderly.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e900	During the debate, Ivar Østberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: Document No 8:136 [[RiT]] Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e930	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e935	I am sorry, but because we did not follow along well enough, there was a mistake in voting on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox Alternative voting was proposed by the President. It wasn't meant to be, because our minority proposal has nothing to do with the setting theme. There are two completely separate themes if you look at the option on page 2. We should have asked that we vote first on our proposal and then on the vote, so that we could vote in favour of our proposal and against the vote. So there's two different themes. I therefore allow myself to request that, for formal reasons, we take the vote again, so that we can vote against the vote in one vote, and for the minority proposal in another vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e940	The president definitely sees the point in what Carl I. Hagen says, and will ask the Storting whether it's okay that we take the vote again. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-28.ana.ud163e958	We'll take the vote in two stages. We vote first on the proposal of the Progress Party and then on the Committee's position.
