ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28-upper.ana.ud233e80	On behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. 1st@item: inlistbox Paragraph 86a, first paragraph, new point (a) is assumed to be replaced by the following:The measure does not have a gross area of more than 300 m2§ 86a, first paragraph, points (a), (b) and (c) are assumed to become new points (b), (c) and (d). Paragraph 93a, new sixth and seventh sentence, is assumed to be replaced by the following: If this time limit is exceeded, the action holder may charge a reduced construction fee under the provisions of paragraph 95. 4th@item: inlistbox The municipality has obligations to make the pre-conference binding for further consideration.3. § 93b No The first subparagraph is assumed to be replaced by the following:Application for measures under Section 93 may be carried out by the responsible executioner or the action holder himself. The applicant shall ensure that evidence is provided in the application as to how all relevant requirements of the provisions laid down in or in accordance with this law are to be met, unless otherwise expressly stated in the application. The application is signed by the applicant.4. § 95 No. The first subparagraph is assumed to be replaced by the following:When the application is complete, it shall be processed and decided by the municipality as soon as possible and no later than 6 weeks at the latest.5. § 95 No. The first sentence of the second subparagraph is assumed to be replaced by the following:Other authorities must give their decision or deliver their opinion within 3 weeks of transmission.6. § 95 new No. 4 is expected to be replaced by:In case of exceedances of the procedural time limits laid down in this Act, the building fee shall be halved in the case of exceedances up to 1 week. In the case of exceedances of up to 2 weeks, the construction fee shall be abolished in its entirety. In the case of exceedances exceeding 2 weeks, the construction permit shall be deemed to have been granted. Any exceedance of the time limit which may be clearly attributed to non-municipalities shall not apply to the provisions hereunder.§ 95 Current paragraph. 4 and Nos 5 is assumed to be new. 5 and No 6.7. The fifth sentence of Section 95(b) is assumed to be replaced by the following: An appeal may be brought against the decision as to the type of case.8. § 98 new No. 5 is expected to be replaced by:The provisions of § 98 do not apply to simple measures under § 95(b)9. § 110 new No. 7 should be assumed to be deleted.10. Paragraph 116a, fifth sentence, is assumed to be replaced by the following:The periodic penalty payment shall be imposed on the person responsible for the infringement and shall be due to the treasury.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28-upper.ana.ud233e144	Thore A. Nistad, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28-upper.ana.ud233e147	On behalf of the Labour Party, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted.Remark of the layer:§ 95 new paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: If the time limits for the proceedings laid down in this Act are exceeded, the building fee shall be reduced by 5 pst. for each week the time limit is exceeded. This provision shall not apply where the exceedance is clearly due to the facts of the action holder.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28-upper.ana.ud233e162	Sigrun Eng, on behalf of the Workers' Party, put forward the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the word. There will be a vote first on the proposal from the Progress Party, then on the proposal from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28-upper.ana.ud233e180	The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28-upper.ana.ud233e194	No one has asked for the floor. The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28-upper.ana.ud233e210	No one has asked for the floor. The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28-upper.ana.ud233e226	On behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. 1st@item: inlistbox § 1, second paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following:The law shall facilitate the use of the material in the biobank for health purposes, including disease prevention, diagnostics, treatment, research, education and nutrition development, in an ethically sound manner.2. § 2 is supposed to read:§ 2 DefinitionsThe biobank is understood in this law as a collection of human biological material. Human biological material is understood in this law as organs, parts of organs, cells and tissues, and components of such material from living and dead people. For the purposes of this Act, a person who transfers biological material to a diagnostic biobank, a treatment biobank or a research biobank.3. § 4 is expected to be replaced by the following:§ 4 Creation of biobanksCollection of human biological material for the establishment of a biobank shall be notified to the Ministry by submitting a protocol containing information on the purpose of the establishment, the nature of the material contained in the biobank and the number of persons from whom it is obtained or to be obtained. Further information shall be provided on how long the material is to be stored, what is to be done with the material after that time, and who is to be responsible for the biobank in accordance with Section 6.If, within 30 days of receipt of such notification, the ministry has not requested further information in accordance with the first subparagraph, the biobank shall be deemed to be approved and registered after that time. This does not apply, however, if the Ministry has given feedback within the deadline that the biobank cannot be approved or if further information is required to address the issue of approval. The Ministry may, by regulation, specify the type of information to be notified in accordance with the first paragraph.4. § 5 is assumed to be deleted and §§ 6-22 of the bill is assumed to be §§ 5-21.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28-upper.ana.ud233e268	Thore A. Nistad, on behalf of the Progress Party, has put forward the proposal he has now referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28-upper.ana.ud233e271	On behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, I would like to make the following proposal: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Note:§ 10 is assumed to be replaced by the following:§ 10 Transfer to the rest of the world A biobank or parts of a biobank may only be sent out of the country after approval by the ministry and in accordance with the consent of the donor of the material. Requirements for the approval and consent of the department referred to in the first subparagraph shall not apply where the dispatch is carried out in the context of diagnostics or analysis in the interests of the patient. In research projects where all or part of a scientific study must be conducted abroad, the approval of the department is not required. Otherwise, the first paragraph applies. When the material is sent abroad, the person responsible for the biobank shall ensure, according to Section 6, that the material is not used beyond the stated purposes and limits and that the material is not personally identifiable to the recipient. § 12 is assumed to be replaced by the following:§ 12 Consent provision for research biobanks Unless there is a specific legal basis or other valid legal basis, the collection, storage and processing of human biological material for research purposes requires the voluntary, explicit and informed consent of the donor. The consent shall be documented and based on information on purposes, risks, discomfort, consequences and other relevant to the validity of the consent. The information and specification requirements must be determined after an assessment of the risk factors, the sensitivity of the material, the vulnerability of the subjects and the like.The biobank material cannot be lent or handed over to others or transferred abroad, unless it results from the consent.A broad consensus can be used if this is beneficial for both individuals and society. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on the scope of the agreement. For extraction of human biological material from a death, the rules of the Transplantation Act on presumed consent to autopsy apply mutatis mutandis. For persons without consent under the Patient Rights Act § 4-3, the Patient Rights Act applies §§4, 4-5, 4-7 and 4-8 for consent to healthcare on behalf of others corresponding to consent to the collection, storage and processing of biobank material for research. § 13 is assumed to be replaced by the following:§ 13 Modified, extended or new use In the case of modified, extended or new uses of previously collected material not covered by the original consent, new voluntary, explicit and informed consent shall be obtained. Where it is impossible or very difficult to obtain new consent, the Regional Committee for Medical Research may waive the requirement for new consent. This applies mutatis mutandis if the use of the material must be presumed to be in the donor’s own interest and does not violate the donor’s personal integrity. In the case of the use of material and information from a deceased person, the presumed will of the deceased and the sensitivity of the material shall be used for the assessment by the Regional Committee for Medical Research Ethics. Due consideration shall be given to the family and relatives of the deceased. The changed, expanded or new use of anonymised material does not require consent, but must be assessed by a regional committee for medical research ethics. § 14 is assumed to be replaced by the following:§ 14 Withdrawal of consent Anyone who has given consent under §§ 10-12 may withdraw such consent at any time.If the consent is revoked, the consent holder may require the destruction of the biological material. The right to require destruction does not apply to biological material obtained in connection with diagnostics and treatment. The right to withdraw consent or to require destruction, after the first or second subparagraphs, shall not apply if the material is anonymised or if the material is included in another biological product after processing. Neither does access to destruction apply where the retention of the material is required by law.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28-upper.ana.ud233e332	On behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, Sigrun Eng has put forward the proposal she has now referred to. Several have not asked for the word. The President will first vote on the proposal from the Progress Party and then on the proposal from the Labour Party and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28-upper.ana.ud233e350	The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28-upper.ana.ud233e364	On behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, I would like to make the following proposal: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted.Note: the third and fourth sentences of the fifth paragraph of Section 13 are assumed to be deleted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28-upper.ana.ud233e376	Sigrun Eng has put forward, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, the proposal she has now referred to. Several have not asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-01-28-upper.ana.ud233e387	The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
