ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e28	The representatives of André Kvakkestad, Olav Akselsen, Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken, Jorunn Ringstad, Synnove Konglevoll, Aud Gaundal, Øystein Djupedal, Per Ove Wide, Elsa Skarbøvik, and Per Erik Monsen, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. Four permit applications are available: by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave of the representative Morten Lund from 5 February onwards and until further notice by the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave of the representative Rolf Reikamm from 5 February onwards and until further notice by the Group of the European People's Party on the leave of the representative Hill-Marta Solberg from 5 February to 7 February in order to take part, under the direction of the Nordic Council, in meetings of the Permanent Parliamentary Committee on Arctic Cooperation, in Washington from the representative Karin Andersen on leave from 5 February to 7 February in order to take part, as a representative of the Interparliamentary Union, in the Conference 'Nulltolerance for Female Gender Reduction', in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Akershus County: Christian Holm For Hedmark County: Helge Bjørnsen For Nordland County: Tomas Norvoll For South Trondelag County: Karin Galaaen
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e109	Christian Holm, Helge Bjørnsen, Tomas Norvoll and Karin Galaaen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e114	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e119	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e124	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available and the Kjell Engebretsen is considered unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings. The representative of Mr Kjetil Bjørklund will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e129	On behalf of Per Ove Width, Odd Roger Enoxen and myself, I would like to suggest that the Government must present a case to the Stortinget about the work on improving the efficiency of economic and logistical management in Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e134	The representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e138	On behalf of the representatives of Karita Bekkelem Orheim, Eva M. Nielsen, Reidar Sandal and myself, I would like to propose measures to improve the economic situation of the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e143	The representative Per Sandberg will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e146	On behalf of the representatives of Jan Arild Ellingsen, Kenneth Svendsen and myself, I propose to launch a test project to test the electronic labelling of vehicles in order to streamline and modernise police control procedures. And on behalf of the representative Torbjørn Andersen and myself, I propose a travel restriction for asylum seekers and foreigners with Norwegian travel documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e153	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e175	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Minister for Foreign Affairs Jan Petersen Councillor Laila Bava Island Councillor Kristin Klemet The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Thorbjørn Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e194	The Minister of Foreign Affairs has, in a commendable way, upheld the United Nations authority in the crisis in Iraq. The Security Council has called for full disarmament of Iraq. If this is not possible peacefully, it shall take place in the event of serious consequences, as unanimously adopted by the Security Council. Today, Minister of Foreign Affairs Powell is probably presenting new evidence. The weapons inspectors will come back with their report later. If evidence is provided that is considered credible by the Security Council, efforts should be made to achieve disarmament by peaceful means by providing UNMOVIC with stronger instruments, such as: that the U2 aircraft are given the opportunity to fly over Iraq, and perhaps also military support. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that this is the first way to try to achieve disarmament by peaceful means, before returning to what is stated in Resolution 1441, namely that there will be serious consequences in terms of armed conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e201	Yes, I agree. After all, the use of military means must only be the ultimate means of action to be used in the face of a crisis. It is up to the Security Council through its decisions to define when it may be, but the government's goal, and as I understand it is a broad consensus in Norway, is to seek to resolve this conflict without the use of military resources. That is why we have also consistently followed the UN track, which I am pleased that I am using the term ‘priestly’. I see some in the public debate – or rather in the press – say that there is now a hack in the disc. However, I think it is very important that we have just hacked the disc in this area and consistently follow the approach adopted by Resolution 1441, not least because Norway was in favour of Resolution 1441.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e206	I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it has been necessary to have a hack in the disc, precisely because there are doubts about where to stand. What is important now is to try to come up with opinions and opinions about how to stick to the peaceful path. Of course, one cannot do that if one deviates from what is stated in Resolution 1441. It is all the more important to have an idea of how to complete the weapon inspection you currently have and to give it stronger tools. I'm asking if the government has any idea whether it's possible to strengthen the weapons inspection and put even harder pressure on Iraq. If it turns out that there is clear evidence, it is clear that Iraq must then be confronted with an ultimatum and say that it should be. But you also have to have stronger tools to do it. If that does not work, it is clear that then the Security Council has unanimously said what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e213	I think it is difficult to have any decisive opinion as to whether the inspection system itself can be further strengthened in relation to what it is now. It is true that the inspection capacity has gradually been built up. I think it is very important to listen to the advice given by the inspectors. The last round of inspectors was in the Security Council, there was a preliminary report, and we said after that report that we believe that the inspectors now need more time. At the same time, however, it must be borne in mind that the many demands made in UN resolutions are requirements for the cooperation of the Iraqi regime. The alarming thing about Blix's report on 27 January was that he pointed out that Iraq does not cooperate properly. It is not a matter which relates in itself to the inspection regime itself. It is linked to how Iraq meets the requirements of the United Nations. That's where I think the core of the question is in many ways now. It's a very difficult situation we're facing, but it's very important to stick to the arrangement that the Security Council has put itself on, and that we don't go out on any of the sides. The Prime Minister has also stressed that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e220	It will be follow-up questions – Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e223	There have been some different signals from the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs on how to assess this situation. To the evening post on 31 January, the Prime Minister said: ‘A United Nations decision is a necessary, but not sufficient, decision-making basis for us. In the end, we shall make an independent assessment.’ ‘What will Norway do to counter war if the United Nations gives a clear signal?’, ask the evening post. ‘We must have found the consequences of such a decision politically and ethically unacceptable in relation to the non-intervention option’; The Prime Minister shall reply. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he agrees with the Prime Minister on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e242	There is no disagreement between the Prime Minister and me on these questions. We both assume that the decisions of the Security Council under Chapter VII are binding on the Member States. At the same time, however, it is quite clear that it is the individual countries that have to assess on that basis how such a decision should be followed up for them. That means we're not going to get an order to participate in military operations. I remember that this debate just started at that point, and I think I was actually the first one to say about it as well, and then stressed that how it should be followed up, Norway has to assess on its basis. But there is no doubt that the Security Council's decision is binding on the Member States. It comes from the system, and there's never been any doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e248	Åslauga Haga – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e251	I'd like to drill a little bit on the question that Kristin Halvorsen was about now. There is uncertainty as to the scope of action that the Government believes Norway has if the Security Council were to adopt a resolution on a military attack on Iraq. The Central Party understands that a decision in the Security Council will be binding in the sense that the decision cannot be countered, but that Norway can, on a maritime basis, reserve the right to believe that a decision is unwise and that a political no to a war in Iraq is being said. The Prime Minister has sent a signal that a political no can be said even after the Security Council has taken a decision. So he has the same understanding as we do. But I feel that the Foreign Minister says that if the Security Council has taken a decision on a military attack, Norway will have to support this politically. Military is said to be something else. What is the Government's attitude?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e258	I won't interfere in Åslaug Haga's experiences. But I have to say that at this point I have pronounced myself quite clearly all the time, and there is no contradiction either at this point. The decisions are therefore binding on the Member States, but it is clear that in a free public debate, what is to be done about the decisions can be thought of. I've also said that a number of times. What you want to do at the end is a different question. There is a strong lead in what the Security Council will say. But the formality, of course, is that it's possible to criticize it. I think a lot of these things are going to be pretty clear when a possible resolution had to be made available from the Security Council. We are now in the kind of debate that we have had many times, namely 'if-if-about' debates, which I, for my part, have tried to keep away from, simply because there are debates that take place on a basis that will prove not to be real when we first had to get there. Therefore, there is no disagreement on these issues, either within the Government or between the Government and large parts of Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e267	Haakon Blankenburg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e270	I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that there is no point in discussing whether Norway should cross a UN decision when a UN decision has been taken. What can be a point is to confirm that the Government has an active attitude to get a peaceful solution, for example. through enhanced efforts to secure the inspectors in Iraq, by means of aircraft support, which they have previously indicated may be a help, or in other ways, and will raise this as a point of view during the treatment. Even if one is no longer in the Security Council, it is likely that the Government will adopt this as a position and present it as a stand-alone position and will not wait for a decision in the Security Council. It would be far more important than discussing whether Norway should go across a decision in the Security Council once it has been finally done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e275	I fully agree with Blankenborg in this approach, and can confirm that it is important that inspectors now have cooperation with Iraqi authorities that the world community is entitled to have, and that there are also improvements in the areas where there is a need for it. I think it was Thorbjørn Jagland who mentioned overflights, which so absolutely is a question. So there's no disagreement between Blankenborg and me in this. When we then went out in the previous round and said that the inspectors should have more time, there was an expression of their own Norwegian position on that question, because there was a debate that went on then. Of course, we are participating in such debates, and we are aware that there will then be input into the assessment that the Security Council will ultimately arrive at. But I want to add one thing, that's that one of the worrying features of the past few days is that the EU Presidency of Foreign Minister Papandreou now came back with the impression that Iraq has failed to understand the seriousness of this matter. That just means that that signal must be reinforced towards Iraq, and I also see that in Blankenborg's question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e280	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e283	I would like to ask another question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has now received the support of the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee that it is a virtue to have a ‘hack in the disc’ in this matter. And it's fine if you stick to certain principles, but it's probably the content of this hack that SV has had problems with. I'm wondering how the previous replica wrench is now to be understood. If I interpret the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the best possible sense, Norway's position when Powell has been in the Security Council at 1 p.m. 16.30 Norwegian time today and presented any new evidence, namely that the peace trail, or the weapons inspector's trail, is to be followed as far as is advisable, i.e. Norway shall ensure that prior to the possible handling by the Security Council, weapons inspectors are given more time to disarm Iraq and to abandon weapons of mass destruction. Is that a correct view?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e288	I must first say that the peace trail is far more extensive than what Kristin Halvorsen now expresses, and I think it is very important to remember that. I mentioned at the end of my reply to Haakon Blankenborg that it is now possible for the outside world to send so clear signals to Iraq that they understand what is now serious about the situation is a very important contribution, and I just don't think that Western Europe has been good enough to send the clear signal. And that's an important part of the peace trail, we don't have to talk away from that. So I must say that I thought Papandreou's message yesterday was alarming. On the issue of more time, we said that in connection with the previous treatment, i.e. 27 January. I still believe that the inspectors should have the time they needed to get more clarity on the issue. The time they need must be up to the Security Council to assess in the light of a dialogue with the inspectors. And you have to remember what the inspectors' task is, and what the requirements are for Iraq. The requirements for Iraq are defined in a number of UN resolutions, most recently in 1441, which means that these are the requirements to be met. In this context, the inspections are important, but how long the inspectors need, I dare not have any opinion on the standing position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e295	The situation is now that one has gone into a track where it is very difficult to see how one can manage to find a solution to the crisis around Iraq without the United States, possibly with the support of the United Nations, going to a military action. Just the fact that there are 100,000 U.S. soldiers in the Gulf, who are going to have a good reason to go home again with an unprovoked case, and the fact that maybe one – five months or one more year for the weapons inspectors is not good enough for Bush to drag the soldiers home, can be dynamic enough in itself to push forward a military attack that could have been avoided. In this situation, the government has so far been very careful about going into the breeze in terms of positions on what makes sense to do in this situation. Now Prime Minister Bondevik has been very clear that war is absolutely the last resort. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that war is an absolute last resort, and that Norway should insist that the last resort is not implemented until all other means have been used?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e300	It appeared from my first answer today to Thorbjørn Jagland, where I just expressed that war is the last thing you go to, and we follow that view further. But I want to say one thing that I think was really disturbing about the question to Kristin Halvorsen. It's that when she's wondering which exits are of this situation, Kristin Halvorsen doesn't have a single word about what Iraq is going to do. It's really the very basic inconsistency between Kristin Halvorsen and me. Now we have to understand that Saddam Hussein has clear things to do here, and we have to put pressure on it. It is the heart of the matter here now – nothing else.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e306	There will be follow-up questions – Bjørn Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e309	Where there is war, there is also a civil crisis. How many soldiers, planes and tanks are in place in the countries around Iraq to start the war, we get daily information about. What is lacking information about, and where the silence is raging, are the details of what kind of suffering the war could create for the civilian population. Before it was so that there were soldiers who died in war. Today it's mostly civil that does it. Has the Minister of Foreign Affairs considered the extent to which the humanitarian sufferings of the civilian population will occur, and what does this mean in relation to the plans laid down by the Government? What does that mean for the Government in relation to a yes or no to war?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e314	So, as we've been up to a number of times in this spontaneous Question Time, using military means is the ultimate instrument in a conflict of this kind, and there must be no disagreement that we are seeking, as far as possible, a peaceful solution to this conflict. Then we also need to understand what it is, and we need to ensure that the necessary requirements for Saddam Hussein are implemented. We must not forget that in the debate we are now facing. How a military campaign might possibly be carried out, it is difficult to theorize in advance, but I understand that the main point of Jacobsen is how we are prepared in that case in a situation of that kind. To that end, there is widespread general preparedness in the event of a humanitarian crisis. It has nothing specific to do with Iraq, but it is a general preparation that we have, and it is quite extensive. I could have gone into it if I had had more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e321	Åslauga Haga – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e324	It is worth hoping that we can end up in a situation where the weapons inspectors get more time. I think that's the right thing to do now. But I have to be allowed to ask questions about realism that this can happen. I think it's important now that someone takes reality inwards. There is an imminent danger that there will be a war in Iraq. If the Security Council mandates war, there will be war. If the Security Council does not, the United States has gone very far in saying that in any case there will be war. A war will inevitably – and I think everyone agrees – have enormous humanitarian consequences. That is why I must say that I am surprised that, on the Norwegian side, there is no readiness to deal with that situation humanitarianly. I think the obvious thing now would be that you went in and looked at what resources you could make available in relation to the humanitarian side if there were war. I also believe that action should be taken to prepare to receive a significant amount of refugees. That is why I am surprised that there is still only general humanitarian preparation guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e336	Let me just first say that the inspectors and the inspectors' work are intended to support under the requirements of Saddam Hussein. It's not a delay mechanism, it's a reality, that you want to do inspections to know the answer to the main question that the United Nations has asked. When it comes to preparedness – and I realized that Åslaug Haga thought that nothing exists – I would just like to remind you that we have the so-called NOREPS system, with emergency equipment on Fornebu, which consists of a number of emergency products. From this storage, complete packages of emergency equipment can be sent within 24 hours, with everything from field hospital to emergency rations, tents, collapsible water reservoirs and communication equipment. Furthermore, we have the so-called NORSTAF, which is managed by the Refugee Council and is a staff base of 300 experienced people who are prepared to move out in a crisis situation at 72 hours notice. This is evidence that there is, in general, a very high-quality preparedness. So if you were to have a war situation with severe humanitarian consequences, we already have a system that is there and can be triggered.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e345	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e348	I have a question for the Minister of Education and Research – so we're changing the theme. Before I ask the question, I'm actually going to spend a few seconds boasting of the Council of State. The decision to transfer the negotiating responsibility for teaching staff from the state to the municipalities and county councils is a decision that gives our full agreement, and it meets the document of the Progress Party No. 8:23 for 2002-2003, available for treatment in the United Kingdom. We're very happy about that. My question is about something other than the working climate, it is about indoor climate. Estimates show that Norwegian school construction has a need for upgrading of approximately 100 000 people. $40 billion. It's a loan arrangement of 15 billion dollars over eight years. This is too late. What does the Council of State do to ensure that municipalities and county councils act in line with provisions applicable to indoor climates and do not grant a deferral of time or exemption in relation to the applicable requirements? Because the requirements are there, but they have to be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e357	One of the things the government has done, which has received broad support from the Stortinget, is that it has amended the Training Act. There is now better protection for students, both in the psychosocial environment at school and in the physical environment, and also in the indoor climate. It is a legislative amendment that will come into force on 1 April. At the same time, there are many reports and media reports on poor indoor climate and poor building conditions in schools, but it is a fact that we do not have a complete overview of the state of Norwegian school buildings. The Ministry is developing a more accurate picture of the situation in Norwegian schools, and in this context, depending on what we reveal, we also need to look at possible measures to do something about it, including the loan facility mentioned by the representative Sortevik. But the mapping has not been completed. When it does, and if we get a satisfactory answer, of course, the Size should be familiar with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e364	I can imagine two measures that I would like to ask the Council of State to assess. One is to give the local labour inspectorate a temporary task to follow up on compliance with regulations by the municipalities and county councils that own, until we have a permanently independent body in place. The Labour Inspectorate exists and can be used. It is also a task to ensure that the employees of the school have work that is satisfactory under the Working Environment Act. The second thing that can be done to speed up the upsurge is a temporary state acquisition of school buildings, so that the municipal economy in each municipality does not become decisive because if more of today's school students can actually experience a satisfactory indoor climate before they finish schooling.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e371	I have registered these proposals from the Progress Party before. It's clear that we're facing system problems whose extent of the building problems is as large as anyone claims, which is a couple of tens of billion dollars. This indicates long-term neglect and deep system problems in relation to the local economy, which is also a public economy at all. I don't think it's a favourable arrangement with temporary state acquisition of all school buildings. We're talking about a number of school buildings, if we look at primary and secondary schools, at about. Four thousand in the whole country, and I think it will be very complicated. As far as the supervisory function is concerned, of course, we are concerned that it should be good, and that is where the Stortinget has asked us to come back quite soon with an assessment of the supervisory authority regarding the new school environmental regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e381	There will be follow-up questions – Lena Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e384	On 1 April, the new Law on Working Environment for Students, a law that gives all students an individual right to a school environment that promotes health, education and well-being in school, enters into force. The studies that have been carried out, among others: KS and a number of other institutions, show that getting a good indoor environment for students in Norway will cost between 40 and 50 billion kroner. The government is monitoring the situation in school, but now action is needed. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State have any concrete plans for refurbishment of the country's schools? As you know, school buildings are the buildings that are in the worst condition of all public buildings in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e391	My concrete plans are that at least I will continue the loan scheme that has been adopted and that goes over a few years. But if further and other measures are to be implemented by the state, the first thing we have to do is to acquire knowledge of the situation. I cannot confirm the figures that the representative here refers to, NOK 40-50 billion. I can't rule it out, but I can't confirm it. We're trying to better map the situation. But it is clear that identifying needs of that magnitude is a sign of deep system problems and long - term neglect. This means that we must not make arrangements to reinforce these problems either. I believe that the whole community economy or local democracy and the state's relationship with the local community sector are in a very important time of destiny, where there are questions of whether we should respect local democracy and responsibility there, the framework funding system, etc., or whether the state should take on more and more and more and more detailed governance. It is a dilemma that must also be taken into account when considering possible measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e396	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e399	I'll have to ask the Minister of Education a question. Government priorities in this year's government budget are beginning to be well noted in School-Norway. The Bondevik government's bet on private schools with nearly half a billion dollars is funded through large cuts to the school leisure system for the very smallest kids. Now the bill comes to the parents. In Oslo, which is the Right Pride and Exhibition Window, the payment has increased by a total of NOK 1600. In the municipality of Lenvik has 20 pst. by the parents now resigning the place or asking for reduced space. In Trondheim, the price will be increased from 1 March. These are just a few examples. It may seem as if people are being scared away from the school leisure system with the cuts that the government has made. The Council of State has not, during its term of office, had any particular involvement with the Joint School. What is now happening to the school leisure system must be said to be – excuse the expression – a miserable family policy. I want to ask the Council of State quite specifically: is she not concerned about the development we see in relation to our smallest children?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e408	Unlike the opposition, when you are in government, you have to take responsibility, not just for parts of the budget, but for the entire budget. Then the entire budget must have a device so that it does not break the limits of the Norwegian economy. Among other things, we have see the effect of that we power it by getting to a gradual decline in interest rates. However, within these tight frameworks, the Ministry of Education and Research budget had a strong growth in appropriations, a strong growth in higher education, a strong growth in research and also in school growth – although most of the local economy – and there was a cut in the school leisure scheme. In the choice of priorities for education, research and school versus the school leisure system, the first priority was given. This must then be seen in the context of what happens to the private economy of people when we can achieve a gradual decline in interest rates. What I'm worried about is, of course, the municipal economy that's unbalanced, and that I don't see it's easy ways out. In any case, it requires an effort by everyone in this Chamber because it is not just about the ambitions of the local politicians themselves or the inability to improve efficiency, but also about the reforms, tasks and obligations we give from this room, possibly by not fully financing, and the detailed governance and governance that are also taking place from here. In this situation, there is no concealment that the school, not exactly the school leisure scheme, but the school, is in a vulnerable position – the sector that has so far been most loyal to the framework funding system and the local policy approach that we have all joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e417	First of all, I want to say that there is some party that knows the responsibility burdensomely, it is precisely the Workers' Party. In many ways, we have met with the fact that we have been responsible, and I believe the Council of State is well aware that the Workers' Party is used to taking responsibility, both in position and in opposition. So to the answer to the Council of State. The point is that what happens in the municipalities is that it is only the statutory tasks that the municipalities now have the opportunity to follow up. It is good if the Government starts to be concerned about and concerned about the development of the local economy. Then, too, we have an important offer that is not required by law, namely the school leisure system. Then the question is, what do we do to these smallest children if this offer is cut? I want to ask Kristin Clemet if she shares Inge Wohnning's view, that there is no need for SFO. Can the families of young children in Norway now expect cuts and cuts with Bondevik at the rudder?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e424	I think the greatest service we could do to the smallest children was to have a fundamental debate on how to deal with the municipal sector. If the representative Bekkelem Orheim has the starting point that the municipalities only carry out statutory tasks, she can then reason further on what she wants to do with the others. Will she also impose laws on them, or not? That's the dilemma you're facing. I know that someone who is concerned with local economy and democracy is talking about something called the Tribune effect, namely that if you start governmentizing the local government sector through detail management and action plans, etc., it's just like when you start getting up, then the others will also be tempted to get up, and eventually everyone loses. This is a dilemma, but I think the small children would be most well served that we took a fundamental debate on this and managed to keep some lines in the policy we are pursuing towards the municipal sector overall.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e431	There will be follow-up questions – Rune J. Skjellaa.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e434	Tomorrow we will deal with a matter that deals with minimum standards. The size has clearly said that we do not want to go in and control the municipalities in detail. But I actually think that the Minister of Education has gone quite far today by recognizing that there is actually a crisis around the municipalities. Karita Bekkemelm Orheim mentioned the school leisure scheme and the cuts there, but there are also strong cuts in schools – the number of sharing hours has actually decreased by 10pst. the last year. Minister of State Erna Solberg says that we can't have great hopes that something better will be done next year. What does the Minister of Education have to do to ensure that children, both in the school holiday scheme and in school, really get a real and good school offer when you see that you are still reducing the number of hours at school?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e441	I believe that 'crisis' is too strong a term. But I mean absolutely that the questions that are raised here are well worth discussing. If you can reasonably say that the municipal sector is responsible for, health and care, kindergartens and schools, and if we say that the care side and kindergarten side have been largely publicised by this hall for some years, it is the school again that acts as the most loyal in relation to the framework funding system that everyone thought. I am convinced that it is best for the school with less detail management and more autonomy. I think there are a lot of people who agree with me. Nevertheless, the question has to be asked: is it risky in relation to the reduced space for action given to municipalities, if the majority here is tempted to continue to reduce it? I welcome the debates we are going to have. We are going to have a debate tomorrow, as was said. But we have also said that in the context of the revised national budget, we will provide a description of the resource situation in school. We also have a consultation document that raises the question of an indicative resource standard. Our starting point is very good, with high resource use, high teacher density and good opportunities for better use of resources. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e449	Time's up. Lena Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e454	In the budget this year, appropriations for the school leisure scheme were halved. 217 million. kr they were reduced by. The result won't wait. Around Norway, the prices of the school leisure system are now falling. As a result, many parents cannot afford to have their children in the school leisure scheme. A unanimous poverty expert panel in Norway in 2001 said that the most important measures to reduce and prevent poverty in Norway were three things: free school, free SFO and cheap kindergartens. Child poverty is the worst poverty, and poverty is the most difficult to overcome, and it has long-term consequences. The school leisure system was one of the things that was pointed to as important, but what the government chose in its budget was to take from the school leisure system and give to private schools. [[President clubs]] The size has also asked the Government to return to the Storting with a plan for the development of the school leisure scheme. [[The President Clubs Again]] My question is...
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e465	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e468	I didn't quite get with myself who had established that it was schools, kindergartens and the SFO that were the most important thing to combat poverty. Personally, I think it's work. The possibility of self-driving is the most important thing to do, to have an economy that allows those who want to and can work to work. I think that's the most important thing. In the case of SFO, that's absolutely right. The State budget contains a lot of items that grow – they have to grow because they are rule-driven. So it contains some items that grow because it's a political priority we do. Then it contains some records where it is cut. This was among them. We did that because we were prioritizing something else. Nevertheless, I would say that the overall priority we did in order to achieve a sufficiently tight government budget has caused us to have a decline in interest rates, and it also affects the private economy of people, just like a certain increase in SFO prices. So it's completely wrong to say that we did this because we were going to give to the private schools. Those were rule-ruled arrangements. No government could do anything but follow the rules. Private schools must have 85 pst. [[President clubs]] the average cost of public schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e477	It's a clock that shows how long both the representative and the council have left of speaking time. The President must earnestly request that it be followed. The president doesn't like to interrupt people in the middle of a sentence, but there are limits to what the president can allow. Vidar Bjørnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e482	It is uplifting that the Council of State for the first time admits that she is concerned about the local economy. But it can also be worrying. In a response to the UK in the UK, the Council of State has stated that, in the case of SFO, the Government’s objective is to maintain both the SFO offer and its quality. Then she describes two alternatives when they cut and halved the state grant. One is that municipalities are increasing resource use, and it must be provocative for municipalities that have had a lower framework this year than last year and that are now cutting positions in schools, even making proposals for school closures. The second option is that municipalities can increase the parental payment in full in relation to what the government has cut. I now give the Council of State a chance: is it the ultimate responsibility of the Government or the municipalities when we now see the cuts in the school sector around the municipalities and increased parental pay for the school leisure system?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e489	First of all, it's not the first time I've spoken about the municipal sector, the local democracy and the local economy. I've done that several times, not only in this room, but also publicly elsewhere. It's a theme that interests me a lot, because I think from the belief in local democracy that I myself have, that the system we've created to maintain local democracy actually turns out to be a little bit robust. I think that's quite serious, and that's something we should discuss and have a common interest in. As far as the SFO is concerned, provision and quality can, of course, be maintained even if the State grant goes down, and then it will be up to the municipalities to choose whether to give priority to this via their own budgets or to increase parental pay or to implement a combination of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e496	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e499	I will ask a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: In a speech to the Christian People's Party on 31 January, the Christian People's Party said its leader, Valgerd Reply City Haugland, among others. following: "KrF doesn't think there's any solution that the public takes over more and more of the family's tasks when things don't work. We must enable family members to be family members and take care of each other." Focusing more on time over money was an important signal from the number. Can the Minister for Children and Family understand that there is someone who is surprised at the lack of harmony between words and actions on the part of the Christian People's Party? They have now come up with two legislative proposals that make the situation more difficult for parents compared to the time spent with the young. I'm thinking about changing overtime rules and opening time laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e513	I do not think I agree with the conclusions of the representative, Mr Kleppa, that the Christian People's Party's family policy provides less time and less opportunity for a good family situation. Today, even if a more flexible working life has been created, even if the opening time law has been changed in relation to everyday life, parents continue to have responsibility for their children. We have been concerned about freedom of choice for families, and both the cash support system, which was proposed by the Christian People's Party in its time, and good arrangements for maternity leave that we are to develop further, especially in the case of fathers, are conditions that are right for fathers and families to choose to take more time with their children if they want to. Freedom of choice is very central to the Christian People's Party and the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e520	The centre party thinks it is very important to take action in relation to the time bracket many parents are in. Therefore, it is important to focus on how parents can get more time with their children. But I'm surprised if the Minister for Children and Family really thinks that changes in the opening time law, which means adding to the trade in goods to an even greater extent than today will have to work in precarious times, cannot be followed by many parents' ability to follow up their kids. When it comes to the changes in the overtime rules, it means that many people experience a pressure to work more. And it'll get back to family. There are no questions about more freedom of choice; there are, in fact, questions about more pressure towards fewer opportunities to organise their daily lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e530	With regard to both the changes to which the representative refers, it does not mean that the individual employee should work more on a case-by-case basis. We don't yet know what the consequences of the opening time law are, but there are regulations within the collective bargaining system, you have a certain number of hours to work. I see, of course, that in some professions there may be further pressure if you get more opportunity for overtime, but again I would point out that volunteering will be strong in relation to overtime. And if it's about people with small children and a family to take care of, I know that you're also careful about imposing e.g. overtime, as part of the health sector. If you're going to pick up your child in kindergarten, etc., you're not the first one to be charged overtime, and you can actually say no. But I agree with the representative that the timing is a problem. We will also discuss this in the family message that comes in a few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e539	The timer is a problem here in the house too. There will be follow-up questions — Åslaug Haga.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e544	The government prioritises tax relief over public welfare schemes. One consequence of this is, as we have heard before today, an unfortunate situation for the municipalities. We can discuss whether to use the word crisis, but at least it's like a lot of municipalities are struggling. And the municipalities are struggling in areas that are very important to our kids. They wear in relation to school, they wear in relation to culture, and they wear in relation to the more general prevention work. This fact combined with the fact that we now, no matter how we turn around and turn it around, will increase the pressure on parents to work more, undoubtedly creates a difficult situation for families with children. You put children's families under pressure in different ways. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs is: Is she satisfied with the overall development of the situation of families with children in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e551	If this child and family minister had had had plenty of money and chose all the measures completely independent of a government budget, and yet had not taken all she wanted, I can say that I would not be satisfied. We have a lot of challenges in family policy in the future, but we also have a government budget. Of course, some of the tax relief proposed by the Government also benefits families. I also want to point out that the interest reductions we have seen recently will benefit young people in the start-up phase. I even have children who have all bought houses, and one percent means enormous for those who have newly established loans. So there are many measures in the government's policy that help you actually get better and maybe don't have to work as much as you would otherwise have to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e558	Let's move on to the next main question – Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e561	I have a question to the Council of State Davøy: On 1 October 2003, the new rules on contributions are to be implemented and, fortunately, for many, these changes mean a fairer system than the one currently in place. Of course, getting together with children should count when calculating what to pay in contributions. Fortunately, most of them manage to agree on what to pay in contributions through private arrangements, which are both cheaper for the parties and are likely to help keep the level of conflict down. However, one group seems to have forgotten about this change in contributions, namely where the right of association is sabotaged. How has the Council of State thought that a fair solution can be found for these contributors, and how does she intend to avoid major conflicts where children become the losing party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e570	It is true that, on 1 October, the new rules on contributions adopted by the Stortinget in 2001 were launched. What's important is that we put in more justice for both parents in relation to economics, earnings. Both parents’ incomes shall apply and the actual costs of children and their association shall be significant. I think, to answer the question directly, that when you make sure that you also get together to pay off in the form of lower contributions, it will, hopefully, inspire your children to get more together with the parents they don't live with. I don't think the very question of sabotage of association belongs to the new rules on contributions, because they're actually going to encourage association. It's my hope that they will also do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e577	I thank the Council of State for the answer. On the Internet pages of the Tax Agency, it states that if the beneficiary does not deliver the child to a company, or in other words sabotage the social security system, this does not apply to the contributor if this occurs a few times. On the other hand, if systematic action is taken, the parties must conclude a new association agreement. Then I have to ask the Council of State: how likely does she think it is that both parties are willing to pay 700 kroner in fees to reduce a contribution, when you are initially not willing to allow one party to get together with the child? And what are the sanctions possibilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e586	In the case of cohabitation, the starting point is to have cohabitation agreements. There's been a lot of talk about these fees, and I might want to clarify when they're actually triggered. They are triggered only at the moment when the social security office receives a case on the table, in which case the social security office will define the amount of the contribution to be paid by each person. I hope and believe that the new rules will not in themselves facilitate what the representative is concerned about, and I really don't want to speculate on the problems that the representative here is raising. Our starting point is that every family where mother and father leave each other is going to make their social arrangements. It is important, also generally in the family policy, that we encourage the child to have contact with both mother and father. And if it turns out that arrangements are going to be unfortunate in that way, we're going to have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e595	There will be follow-up questions – Ulf Erik Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e598	As demonstrated by the previous exchange of lines, there is a need for renegotiation of contributions and agreements in the new system. It may be very difficult when the level of conflict is high, as it is in many divorces. As a guy who wrote to me, it said: Those who think it is easy to renegotiate have not tried to negotiate with my ex-wife. I have registered that the Council of State is not particularly willing to pay for these 1,400 kroner that the Social Security Office should have in order to help reach agreements in this area, despite the fact that there are also large tax gains from the new scheme. I would like to ask the Council of State whether she will add to a thorough evaluation of the new rules, for example. after one year, and present it to the Storting, so that any loss or bias that may arise can be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e606	A little bit about the first thing to record. Anyone handling their contribution today via social security offices will receive letters in February on the establishment of the new contributions. They will then be able to see if the information provided by the social security office is correct. They can then go to their local social security office, and they can get all the help they need. They may also be helped to calculate the contribution via the cost model provided by the Social Security Office on its Internet pages. This won't cost anything. It is only in cases where they leave the whole case to the decision and proceedings of the social security office that a fee is levied. You have to get all the help you need to pay if you want to. In fact, you can also get the social security office to collect it for free. Yes, we need a broad evaluation, and in fact we have already started a number of investigations into the new rules on contributions. For example, in the case of association, the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs has launched an investigation into whether these new rules on contributions will have an impact on association. It'll also be important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e613	Let's go to the next main question. There won't be follow-up questions from others, just supplementary questions from Øystein Djupedal, so we'll get another main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e618	I'd like to ask Minister of Education Clement a question. In these times, when wars and crises threaten and the media are filled with escalation to war, there is uncertainty among many, not only among adults but also among children. As an adult, when you try to explain to your children what this actually is, and how this is related, it's a demanding exercise for us as parents, but not least it's a very demanding exercise for all the teachers in the country who are facing this in the classrooms. I could imagine hearing whether the Ministry of Education and the Minister of Education have thought through how to assist teachers in the difficult work of explaining a conflict, explaining a war and helping to mitigate the insecurity, anxiety and uncertainty of children – not least I would think that in such a difficult situation the teachers will need guidance and help to know how to respond in a way that will dampen and not strengthen the insecurity that characterizes the society in which we live, and therefore, of course, the classrooms in which our children are.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e627	It was a surprising, but in particular serious question. I myself am the mother of young children and know that what the children now experience through the media can be threatening. I would also like to say that part of the debates that politicians are conducting, as they are in the media at least, sometimes also appear threatening to children. I don't think I as Minister of Education in and on my own is anything better than the teachers themselves to deal with such situations in the classroom. That's exactly what the teacher's proselytizing is all about. They have the pedagogical competence to deal with children and to deal with such issues. I am not saying that it is not demanding, but I think they are more competent than I am. This does not mean that the state – if I am going to use such an expression – does not have support and guidance equipment for teachers in difficult situations. Among other things, the Learning Centre is an agency to assist teachers in particular in addressing current themes, and to link them with the more timeless themes that have to do with other subjects. In this context, I am not aware of whether the Learning Centre has done anything specific about the situation in question, but in general, it is. The learning centre contributes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e634	I'm not particularly surprised that Clemet has not thought through this, but this is one thing that the department with its underlying offices should think carefully through. It is clear that the State or Ministry of Education can assist as such, but of course have no timeless answers. This is a pedagogical task, of course I agree with the Council of State on that. But at the same time, I would think that very many teachers will feel the same insecurity that we as parents feel in how to convey a message that creates security, understanding and not the opposite. This means that it is the State/Ministry of Education with its offices that can be the authority that guides in a difficult time. There's no doubt that what we're facing right now is going to have a large scale and a wide time horizon. It will mean that this will shape newscasts, debates, the media image, talk around the kitchen table and talk around the dinner table for a very long time. Should not the Ministry and the Council of State have carefully considered how to assist in this work? For this is demanding. It's not that it's a state order. It's just as difficult for a parent as for a teacher, and that's why someone has to help us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e641	I can promise the representative, Djupedal, that I will bring this back. I'm going to check whether the Learning Center in particular has done something special about these issues. We know that it does a lot in other difficult issues to help teachers and support teachers in the classroom. When it comes to this topic, I'll check if something special has been done. And if not, I'll take up the question with the Learning Center if there should be something special going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e646	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e649	It's a question to the Minister of Education. All studies show that the most important factor in quality in school is teachers — good teachers and motivated teachers who use their skills in the best possible way. That's why there was a worrying situation in school a few years ago, with negative attitudes to the teaching profession, with poor pay and general pessimism. One in five teachers ends at 50 years of age, very few are out of working life until retirement. It took a lot of time and money to fix it. Billions of money were used to increase teacher pay, access to resources to school increased, gradually built confidence with teachers so that we made changes in working time arrangements, willingness to enter into trials and willingness to use working time in new ways, in mutual trust between teachers and political authorities. Now it is stated in newspapers that the teachers have zero confidence in the state council – tactical, cynical, disrespectful, says the local team leaders of the Education Association about the state council. Does the Council of State think that she has created the climate that is needed to create a change in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e658	The representative Geske raises the question of transferring the negotiating responsibility to municipalities and counties. I can promise the representative, Giske, that that decision has not been taken for reasons of convenience. The government has taken that decision because we believe it is right, and that is important. Firstly, I think it is in principle right that employees negotiate with their employer. This applies to all other workers in this country, and it applies to teachers in virtually all other countries. Secondly, I believe that it has an important democratic side, at least something to reflect on, that positions which have a solid majority in the political environment and also outside the political environment should basically be able to be implemented. Thirdly, principles should not be used just to rid the principles. That's why the practical thing is also important to me. I am quite convinced that we can get a much better school, both for the students and for the teachers as employees, if municipalities and counties are given the overall responsibility as school owners and as employers. Today they have half a responsibility, and then it's hard to do it in a good way. I am convinced that teachers will have better employers in the future than they have now, simply because those who are employers have to take full responsibility for school development, for the quality of school development, for staff policy, etc. As for the stressful thing about the teaching profession, I think it's a lot right that it is. Fortunately, the attempts that have now been made with exemptions and deviations from the working time contract, which have been evaluated by SINTEF, show very positive results. The number of people that feel more stressful, that of spending a little more time on school, actually seems less stressful, because you get more flexible forms of work. These evaluations shall now form the basis for the negotiations to be carried out by the State with the teacher organisations on a new working time agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e671	My question was not about the transfer of negotiating responsibilities. My question was about the negotiating climate and the political climate that exists between the political authorities and the teachers. If changes are to be made to the school, it is necessary to build up the confidence and security of the processes of change to be undertaken. There are two things that need to be done. One is communication between education authorities and teachers. The second is resource access, which makes it a quality reform, not for saving money. The protests of teacher organisations are due, inter alia, to: that there has been no involvement at all. So the Council of State said yesterday in Dagbladet that the teacher's organisations were notified: ‘I called early in the morning and told you about the decision...’ Is that the way to cooperate with the most important input in school, the teachers? In terms of resources, it was said earlier today that there was increased access to resources. That's wrong. If you take away the study funding and the private school increase, it's a real decline in the Clemets school budget, and it's not a quality bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e685	Teacher organisations and, in particular, the Education Association, which is the largest and most clearly tone-providing organisation – and the representative Giske referred to a referral that concerns this with the transfer of negotiating responsibility – are both a stakeholder organisation for their members and a professional policy organisation. I have had very open cooperation with them – a very broad cooperation. I think it's much wider than it's ever been before, including. by introducing something we call colleges, which we do a couple of times a month about all kinds of issues related to school and education. So there's been an excellent cooperation where the Education Association made constructive and important contributions. We are now going to negotiate the working time agreement, and I believe that we are going into it in a very neat way by clarifying the question of negotiating responsibility. It is not a question of negotiation, but something to be decided and decided by the Government. I think it is extremely doubtful whether we could have avoided any kind of conflict, no matter how this would have occurred. The positions are known and have been discussed and investigated for 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e693	The time for the oral question procedure is now over. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e698	There will be a wide range of changes in the list of questions set out, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed among the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister of Finance, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 2, from the representative Henrik Red to the Minister for Finance, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 3, from the representative of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to the Minister for Culture and the Church, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister of Culture and the Church on behalf of the Minister of Finance, who has been away. Question 8, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been transferred to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade who is directing him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, this question is moved and answered before question 20, to be answered by the same Council of State. Questions 9 and 10 from the representatives of May Britt Vihovde and Øyvind Vaksdal, respectively, to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left. Question 13, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, who has left. At the request of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, this question is moved and answered before question 20, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 17, from the representative of Tor-Arne Ström to the Minister for Transport, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease. Question 19, from the representative of Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Justice who is directing him. At the request of the Minister of Justice, this question is moved and answered in response to question 6 to be answered by the same Council of State. Questions 24 and 25, from the representatives of Inger S. Enger and Øyvind Korsberg respectively to the Minister for the Environment, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e746	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e752	This question, from the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to the Minister of Culture and the Church, has been transferred to the Minister of Finance, who is directing him. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister for Culture and the Church on behalf of the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e755	I will ask the Minister for Culture and the Church the following questions: ‘Many church sounds have established monthly gift schemes. Will the Council of State take the initiative to extend the tax-reduction scheme for gifts to organisations to the Norwegian Church?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e764	The system of tax deductions for gifts to voluntary organisations lies within the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. Since he cannot be here today, he has asked me to answer the question for him. Following proposals from the Cooperation Agency, donations to voluntary organisations were deducted from the revenue year 2003. At the same time, the deduction limit was raised to NOK 6000. The Norwegian Church is part of the state administration, and with today's legislation, the Church is not included in the system of deductions. There are several significant differences between the Church of Norway and the community of trudom and life views. The Church is a trudom society, but also a state institution that has its own promises of the state budget. Furthermore, Churcha is created and governed by law, as opposed to voluntary organisations. Other trudom and life-view societies receive one supplement per year. Member. If the Storting wants to extend the scheme to include the Norwegian Church, this requires both a change of law and a vow decision. The Ministry of Finance has estimated the annual isolated proceeds of including Churcha in the scheme of approximately 55 million. kr in 2003. There are many voluntary organisations that have a close connection with the Norwegian Church. These voluntary organisations are not supported by the Church, but operate on behalf of the Church in some ways. Within today's gift-deduction scheme, voluntary organisations associated with the Church may be included in the deduction scheme if they comply with other conditions of the tax laws. Several of these voluntary organisations are all approved by the equality authorities, so that gifts are entitled to deduction from the donor. The government is busy with the economic situation in the Church, and we will establish a dialogue with the Council of Churches on how this can best be followed up, as part of the 2004 budget process.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e779	The tax-reduction system is good for voluntary organisations. The centre party suggested in the fall that the locomotive was also included. We're going to do that again. In the case of the Norwegian Church, it needs a holistic economy covering both maintenance opportunities and operational means. The ideal thing is that the local economy is so liberal that Kirkja gets her legitimate means. But the government and Progress Party signal doesn't indicate that the economy is going to be like that with the first. And when many churches have a service today – from my area I know that a church sound in Sandnes gets 1 million. kr in that way, another NOK 600 000, some joining together and paying a priest – will my question be: does the Council of State see that this dialogue to be conducted should mean that the Council of State is opening up a deduction from that type of donor service?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e786	First of all, I am pleased with the commitment of the representative. Tax deductions for voluntary organizations have been a matter for the Christian People's Party for many years. We didn't get it the last time we were in government, but we've got it now. I am also pleased to be supported by the Center Party in retrospect. When it comes to the Church's economy, it's a pretty complicated question. We want to grab hold of it and see what we're going to do there. My dialogue with the Church Council is about, as a goal, that we should get this done. But it will then be a budgetary issue and a priority issue compared to 2004. We also have some questions that we need to answer, because this can also be part of losing some of the voluntary organisations for gifts that will benefit the Church and not the voluntary organizations. As I said in my answer, many of these have common interests here, so I want that dialogue with the Council of Churches before the Government possibly amends these laws and, if necessary, prioritizes them over the 2004 budget. I don't want to do that without a clear signal that it's a strong wish from the Council of Churches.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e793	I thank you for a positive answer. I hope that the Council of State will close in its priority. And let me say from the Center Party: we're dealing with a government that has announced additional general tax laws, and then it must be an advantage to use any tax laws as targeted as it would be to stimulate additional donor services for community-building work. I am not afraid of the distortion of competition between voluntary organisations and the Church. In this way, voluntary organisations have now gained an advantage that will be zeroed out by a change. In fact, I believe that the Council of State may experience that the total exposure is going to increase, because the funds that are being given can be extended by a tax deduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e802	I believe the representative is very right in his analysis. But I still want to have a dialogue with the Church Council before we start working. I think it's important. It's true, as the representative says, that the government has promised tax relief. This is a very positive form of tax relief, and I'm very happy that we've got room for it in the government we're now in. But I would also like to say quite simply that the church economy has not improved since the central party actually participated in the budget last year to cut off the bishops of Kirkja. It's also a fact that I won't fail to mention in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e809	We must also think about the local economy at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e814	Then we're done with that round in this round, but it looks like there could be more.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e820	‘The outbreak of mediocre in a sheep herd in Verdal has created considerable uncertainty among the sheep herdsmen in the district. About 140 herds have been in contact with the infected herd. Can the Council of State promise that everything will be done to deal with the disease and that compensation will be given to those affected?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e827	The representative Ryan asks me if I can promise that everything will be done to get rid of the sheep disease medi, which has been detected in Verdal, and that those who have been hit will be compensated. I can assure the representative, and the sheep keepers who have been hit, that both I and the veterinary authorities are taking the disease seriously. State animal health surveillance has given high priority to the identification and follow-up of the contact herds, which so far are about 150 in the number. Most of the contact crews are in Trøndelag, while there are six to seven in Rogaland and Hordaland. In addition to these contacts, a total of ten rooms have had contact with the meddling crew in Trøndelag, to the sheep semen collection centre at Staur in Stage. Eight of them are slaughtered, but two stand on the stand today; one came directly from the crew in Verdal. Both primary and contact crews are subject to the necessary isolation measures. A comprehensive blood test programme has been set up in all herds to identify the spread of infection. A significant part of the herds has already been sampled. For the time being, one weather originating from the crew in Verdal was found to be positive. No positive animals have been found among the many breeding contacts. The outbreak in Trøndelag is considered to be serious, as mead is a creeping and very debilitating disease that is difficult to detect, and thus to combat. It's not very contagious, but there's no treatment for it. It has a very long incubation time. Since the detection of the disease in the early 1970s, authorities have used considerable resources to combat it. There were no new cases from 1989 to 1994, but then 24 cases were found in Rogaland and Hordaland in 1995. The last case was in the same area in 2000. I find it particularly regrettable about the outbreak in Verdal, since the crew is a reputable and well-run breeding crew. As I said earlier, it is even so good that it has delivered goods to a semistation. A comprehensive survey has been launched to determine how the infection may have entered the herd. It is important to note that under the livestock law there is no requirement for the slaughter of medi herds, which would trigger compensation to the animal owner. Although the State Animal Health Authority may take a decision on culling on the basis of an assessment of the disease situation in the herd, they have indicated that it is hardly relevant in this case. On the other hand, a premium may be granted to it above the agricultural agreement if owners of herds with positive animals wish to slaughter the herd. Each sheep egg will be briefed on this possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e840	I thank you for your answer. There's a couple of follow-up questions I've been thinking about asking. The first thing goes on this with sampling. It was said that extensive blood tests are now being carried out, including: in staur and other places, of sheep that you have inside. But is it relevant to take samples throughout the country, so that you get an overview of the whole picture, and to avoid this disease spreading?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e852	It is true that when this case has been discovered, there is a tissue of contacts from this crew that it is important to follow up. The veterinary authorities are now concentrating on finding out who may have been in contact with this herd, whether there may be any dissemination starting from it — or what may have been the source of this. Once the status has been established for this outbreak that is now registered, I assume that the veterinary authorities will make a general assessment of the need to introduce additional forces to see whether this disease may occur elsewhere, completely independent of the outbreak now registered in the Nord-Trøndelag.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e859	A question in relation to a replacement: It was said that it is not automatic that you get a replacement here. Is it possible for the Council of State to explain a little of what it is that you get compensation when you have this type of disease in your crew? It's animals that get sick, that produce less, and that work badly. Has any compensation scheme been considered that the farmers who are so unhappy to get this disease into the herd do not suffer too much loss?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e864	We have a number of animal diseases that provide automatic compensation under the livestock law. Diseases make authorities need to intervene and require immediate slaughter and other measures. There are certain rates which are reasonably high and which provide very good cost coverage. In the case of this type of disease, which is not subject to such requirements, a subsidy scheme has been established under the Agreement on Agriculture — as set out in a recently amended regulation — in January of this year for those who voluntarily slaughter. For one must not slaughter if one has mead in his crew, but one has the opportunity to do so. If you slaughter the entire crew and apply different hygiene measures, you will receive a subsidy of DKK 1 100 per year. the winter feed of sheep. That amount was increased by 100 kroner in January this year, so it has just been adjusted up. It is also important to understand that this is then a fully used animal which also gives the owner the value of the slaughter, which is in addition to the amount of the compensation – or the amount of the subsidy – it is right to say, since there is no requirement from the authorities to slaughter it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e876	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The size suggested last year that a new rescue helicopter base should be located in Florø. The 2003 state budget did not propose any permissions to establish the base. It is important that the rescue helicopter comes into operation as soon as possible to ensure the best possible safety in the region. What progress is there in this matter, and will the Government this year make the necessary proposals so that the base can be established in Florø?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e885	The government proposed in St.meld. No 44 for 2000–2001, the rescue helicopter service in the future, to establish a new base in Florø. This followed a majority of the Storting up through the Innst. S. No 156 for 2001-2002. The base shall be operated by a civil operator, as the defence does not have the capacity to operate it. At the same time, the stork provided instructions for the establishment of an observatory on all continental rescue helicopters. Bystander provides a significantly better rescue helicopter preparedness for the entire country, including for the West, compared to the situation today. The Ministry of Justice reduced in line with the Stortingen assumption in October last year's Helicopter Professional Forum, consisting of current users of the rescue helicopter service. The Forum, which is in full swing, has the primary task of recommending requirements for future rescue helicopters in relation to the Defense Recommendations of the NH90 as future rescue helicopters. The results of this work will also be useful in the context of the specifications for calls for tender for the civil base in Florø. The establishment of a new rescue helicopter base in Florø will provide further improvement of the rescue preparedness in the West, and the Government will also come back to this in a natural budgetary context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e896	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer – a response that has a positive element as far as the answer was concerned. I raise this question because security along the west coast today is too bad. In many ways, both the Government and the Minister of Justice have had a positive approach. I'm busy making good progress on the subject, and will ask the following additional questions: Will the Council of State ensure that proposals are put forward by the Government so that the base can be operational in 2004?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e903	With regard to progress in the matter, the government has chosen to take advantage of what comes out of the Helicopter Professional Forum on the basis of the entire discussion that Stortinget had about rescue helicopters. The Forum has a work progress that is on track, which will extend over the first six months of this year. On the basis of that forum, the Government may assess what it intends to do with both tenders and tenders. That's what makes it natural for me to say what I said, that the government will come back to this issue in connection with the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e908	Once again, I thank the Council of State for its answer. I would like to add the following: I assume that the State Council will do the necessary work, so that the rescue helicopter base in Florø can be established as soon as possible. This view is actually in line with the opinion expressed by a broad majority in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e915	We share the perception of the importance of having good rescue helicopters. Since the government promoted the proposal on the base in Florø, we also share the view that it must be good. But it is that it is in budgetary context The size of the budget takes a decision on both priority and progress. It is the government that is then presenting its case to the Stortinget. That's the answer I've given before, and I'd like to repeat that. Then we'll all have a chance to be evaluated and to engage. This is also how it will be in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e925	«A mother from Bergen has not seen her child in almost three years. This is because the granddaughter abducted the child to Mexico in 1999. The Norwegian authorities have been well informed and engaged in this matter without giving the mother and her children any hope of reunification. What does the Government do in this particular case and other comparable cases, and what does the Council of State think can be done/changed so that Norwegian children can be reunited with their parents in Norway when abduction of this type takes place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e932	The Ministry of Justice is the central authority under the Hague Convention on International Child Abduction. The vast majority of cases following this convention are resolved quickly, often within a few weeks. From 1995 until 1 July last year, the Ministry of Justice had dealt with some of these issues. 275 child abduction cases, where only three remain unresolved. Unfortunately, the child abduction mentioned to Mexico is such a case that has proved to be difficult and time-consuming. There have been two main problems in this case. One is that the granddaughter has kept himself hidden and has therefore avoided attack, despite more action by the Mexico police. The second is that, contrary to the Hague Convention, the danger has been convicted of parental responsibility in a Mexican court. This is a non-conventional decision, whereby Article 16 of the Convention expressly provides that such decisions shall not be taken before the decision is taken on the child-residence issue itself. As a central authority, the Ministry of Justice has been very active and ongoing to the Mexican authorities. In addition to the ordinary work done in such cases, we have actively used the Norwegian Embassy in Mexico, and we have engaged a lawyer of our own in Mexico. Representatives of the Ministry of Justice have travelled to Mexico and met with the authorities there. Interpol is of course connected. We have also sent an official complaint to the Mexican U.S. about the breaches of the Convention. This complaint is now being dealt with in Mexico. Unfortunately, the matter has not been resolved, and I understand the despair and frustration that the mother must feel. However, I can assure you that the Department will continue to follow up this matter in a very offensive way. I would also like to assess whether I should deal with the matter personally with my Mexican colleague. As I said at the outset, most of the cases following the Hague Convention are resolved quickly. This Convention establishes international legislation and cooperation which has proved very useful in resolving such cases. ==References== 60 countries have so far joined the Convention, and new ones are still coming. The International Conferences on the Convention are regularly held and the legislation is increasingly being developed to make the Convention even more effective. The Ministry of Justice is and will continue to be an active driver in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e943	It is reassuring to hear that the Norwegian authorities spend so much resources on these kinds of cases. Only last year, it was probably 178 things, and per year. January this year there were almost 60 unresolved cases at Kripos. I understand that many of these issues are problematic. With regard to the matter from Hordaland and Bergen that I referred to, I know that the Norwegian authorities have been in the picture all the way and tried to find a solution. There is nothing to suggest that this problem should be reduced in the future. My first follow-up question is: What does the Government do to prevent such abductions from Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e950	Prevention is completely dependent on being able to know about it in a timely manner and, if necessary, to do something about it. I assume that the main explanation for the number of cases raised by the representative Sandberg is that the cases concern countries that do not come under the Hague Convention. There is a significant problem. There's no doubt about it. In those cases, we depend either on finding a negotiated solution with the abductor or on pursuing the case in the legal system of the country in question. In practice, both foreign stations and the U.D. are making considerable efforts. However, the main challenge in relation to these matters outside the Hague Convention area is simply to get more countries to join. The specific matter raised by the representative is within the Hague Convention area. In those matters, we often succeed. We have not succeeded in this matter. We're going to keep getting involved. We have cases within the Hague Convention, for example. aid granted to private investigators to assist. So we're willing to work intensively to find solutions. We don't have more power than we have, but we're going to use those we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e957	Now it's like a lot of things are happening in relation to countries that have also signed the Hague Convention. That's actually 178 things since 1995. In the cases concerning countries which have not signed the Hague Convention, I am fully in line with the Minister of Justice; the aim must be to have these countries sign this agreement. The Minister of Justice himself is concerned with this with costs, and I think that may also be some of the instruments. In my follow-up, I can try to list some actions that the Progress Party could be interested in discussing with the Government. The first is that parents who come into such a situation are able to cover all their expenses, not only what goes on free legal aid, but also costs in addition to it. Perhaps the government can get in touch with its own specialists – these are difficult issues. Can passports be used in relation to children here? Could it be that we can use aid to those countries that may not have signed the Hague Convention, and perhaps also countries that have signed the Hague Convention, as a means of breaking up such matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e964	I perceive that the representative will be constructive and will search for tools. I don't have a general authority to go into it, but I want to take with me all the ideas that might be useful to get on with it. I have previously shown that in terms of what is outside the territory of the Hague Convention, both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Foreign Office are very active, and they are doing an excellent job. We have also gone a long way in defining legal aid – and Stortinget agreed to it – where legal remedies, among others, could be opened up. could be used for private investigators, which has happened in some cases. I am personally familiar with the issues, because I have met people who have been exposed to what engages the representative in his questions. That's why I also have that commitment that lies in the answer. We're going to look at the tools we have, and if there's anything we can consider coming back to, we're going to do it. But I do not hand out individual lifts until I have had time to think and assess. But I perceive that the representative asks me to think and evaluate, and I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e973	So we go to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e980	This question has been addressed to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, but has been transferred to the Minister of Justice who is directly responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e983	I then have the following question: ‘There has recently been a significant illegal immigration to Norway. These are often people who do not apply for political asylum and who do not report to the Norwegian authorities. Many of them feed through undeclared work, and some through crime. Many suggest that the current measures in the field of foreign controls are not sufficient. Is the Council of State willing to assess a better control at or at the border of the Schengen area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e992	There is no doubt that it is a challenge for an increasing number of people to illegally try to stay in a European country. Norway is one of the countries that, in this context, seems provocative to many. Not everyone who comes follows the current legislation, many choose instead to go illegally into the country in different ways. The problems this brings with it are well known in our part of the world. There is therefore a great deal of attention today on measures to combat this, not least many international initiatives in which Norway is active. Through our participation in Schengen cooperation, we have, as we know, completed systematic checks on persons at the internal borders of other Schengen countries, while controls at the external borders of countries not participating in Schengen cooperation have been strengthened and harmonised throughout the area in line with the requirements of the Schengen acquis. Here I can add that there is currently a great deal of emphasis on further improving the quality of border controls from the Schengen countries against the so-called third countries. It is therefore not so much a matter for the Norwegian authorities to improve control at the border itself, but more a matter of intensifying the work in the border areas to detect both cross-border crime and illegal immigration. Today, police and customs use a lot of resources to keep track of and counter these forms of irregular activity in border areas. Police must give priority to what we call information-driven crime prevention, precisely in the border areas. Through both international sources of information and through their own information, the police should have a sufficiently good picture of crime and the precursors of illegal immigration, in order to be able to carry out targeted controls. These will lead the police to attacks by criminals and those illegally seeking entry into the country. The Police Directorate has instructed relevant police districts to include the control work in the border areas of the ordinary service. In this way, this work will be made an important and normal part of the daily service. This does not preclude more concentrated efforts in the form of coordinated and major operations involving the merger of police and customs in a region and additional efforts to detect illegalities in border areas. As you know, such an operation was completed just before the end of the year last year, with a successful result. I am sure that the police will continue their efforts and give priority to this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1007	Together with the Norwegian people, I wonder that asylum seekers use the asylum institute to come to Norway because they have been persecuted in their own country, either for political reasons or for criminal reasons. But they get asylum in Norway. Then they travel on vacation to the country from which they had to escape. What does the Council of State intend to do to end this delay and customs in seeking asylum in Norway while travelling on holiday to the country from which they are seeking asylum?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1014	This is the responsibility of the Government, and although it also concerns another Council of State, the representative points to at least two out of three possible situations. One situation is that you are in Norway and you are seeking asylum. Then you're here and you're doing it. If you abuse it, you take advantage of being here. The second situation is that there has been a stay in Norway and asylum status, precisely because protection is sought. If you want to go back to where you came from, you have basically also applied for your own protection. Then we have an intermediate group that gets to stay in Norway on a humanitarian basis. They are free to travel. The Minister of Local Affairs has pointed out just questions raised in the dialogue between the police and the Foreign Affairs Directorate, saying that she will take the initiative to review the entire legislation, so that the spirit of the asylum institution is practised as it is supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1023	I asked the local and regional minister the question, and some of the follow-up questions become her. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has stated that she will not apply for a derogation from Norway – so when ten new countries join the EU, the Schengen Agreement will also apply to the ten new countries, and we will have free immigration to Norway. Is the Minister of Justice of the same opinion as the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs that we should not be exempted, and that we should not have special arrangements for Norway, and have free immigration from these new countries of the European Union?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1030	I shall not go into the history of the Schengen Agreement, it has been adopted by a solid majority in the Grand Duchy. Today, the Schengen acquis actually covers some countries that are members of the EU but are not members of Schengen, but we have chosen to join Iceland. How Schengen will be implemented in relation to new EU candidate countries is a process that the EU itself assesses. If Schengen is implemented, the external border control will be a major task, which I know the EU bodies are discussing. Of course, when we are involved in Schengen cooperation and are obliged to do so, it will be a correspondingly reinforced challenge for us, for example. in the case of police cooperation between different countries, and the exercise of what we call border controls. We're very interested in doing that. The action I mentioned, before Christmas, was a cooperation between the police and customs. The police have also been provided with some additional equipment to enable them to be effective here. I have made myself aware of such controls here in the East, but also at the border of Finnmark. I know how effective and important such controls are, and there's a work where we're going to keep the pressure up. That's what I said in the main answer. When it is that the question also concerns other government councils, I answer as far as the government's policy is well known and clear, and it is in relation to the supplementary question that was raised here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1037	We go back to question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1043	«Referred to Look Up in VG 28 January d.o.b. where it appears that the department has granted a derogation to the municipality of Bergen to derogate from the recommended professional limit value for air quality of 1000 ppm in working rooms for pupils. In addition, the department deals with the professionally recommended standard of 1000 ppm only as an indicative standard. In 2002, the size of the population has adopted the Law on the Working Environment for pupils who are not in agreement with this. What will the Council of State do to follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1050	It is not correct that the Ministry of Health has granted a derogation to the municipality of Bergen to derogate from the recommended limit value for air quality in classrooms for pupils, as asked by the question on the basis of a statement in the VG last week. On the other hand, in its letter to the municipality of Bergen dated 4 November 2002, the Ministry stated that: ‘The Ministry has assessed that the recommended standards for indoor CO2 should remain unchanged.’ The question from the representative Jensen gives me the opportunity to clarify the background of the matter and the current legislation in this area. The municipality of Bergen v/Bergen Baug- und Eiendom KF asked the Ministry of Health by letter of 1 October 2002 to assess whether the indicative limit values for CO2 content in indoor air could be raised from 1000 ppm to 2000 ppm. The National Institute of Public Health investigated the matter in consultation with the Labour Inspectorate and concluded that the indicative standard of 1000 ppm should not be changed. As referred to, it is clear from the Ministry's reply to the municipality of Bergen that it is not appropriate to change the indicative norm of 1000 ppm. In Section 19 of the Ordinance on Environmental Health Protection in Kindergartens and Schools of 1 December 1995, Section 19 provides for indoor climate and air quality as follows: ‘The activity shall have a satisfactory indoor climate, including air quality. Temperature control and ventilation shall be appropriate to the use and seasonal variations.» The requirement for a satisfactory indoor climate, including air quality in Section 19 of the Regulation, is a so-called functional requirement. This implies that air quality must be satisfactory after an overall assessment of all relevant factors and that more specific standards, such as: CO2 standard is elaborated in the regulatory guidance. The establishments which deviate from the recommendations of the supervisor must be able to demonstrate that the functional requirement of the regulation is nevertheless met. In this case, it means that those schools or kindergartens with higher indoor CO2 content must be able to demonstrate that the indoor climate is still satisfactory. The core of the Public Health Institute’s letter, to which the Department has relied, is that the indoor environment of schools must be assessed as the sum of several factors, where the air exchange is one. We know that where schools are struggling with poor indoor climates, there is just a lack of maintenance over many years and insufficient cleaning is one of the root causes of the problem. It is therefore particularly important to ensure good air exchange in such cases. As the Ministry of Health stated in its letter of reply to the municipality of Bergen, the CO2 standard is therefore unchanged. This is in line with the changes adopted before Christmas in the Training Act § 9a-2 on the physical working environment of pupils, which reads: «The physical environment of the school shall be in accordance with the professional standards recommended by the professional authorities at all times. If some environmental conditions differ from these standards, the school must be able to demonstrate that the environment has a satisfactory effect on the health, well-being and learning of students.’ In my view, there is no reason to accept poorer indoor air for school students or kindergarten children than what we accept, for example. in offices, meeting rooms, etc. for adults. The Ministry of Health will send a letter to the five organizations that have attributed the Ministry on this matter, and to the municipality of Bergen to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1079	I would like to thank you for a clarification. The size has decided that the new law on working environment for pupils will enter into force on 1 April. It says that the indoor climate should promote both learning, health and well-being, and that the physical environment in school should be in line with the professional standards recommended by the authorities at all times. Now it is known that about half of the country's schools do not meet the requirements of a good indoor environment that is recommended. It is also known that it will cost SEK 40 to 50 billion to rust up today's schools, because school builders are in such a bad condition, and it is the municipal owned building stock that is in the worst condition. My question to the Council of State is: What concrete plans does the Council of State have, both in terms of economics and competence, so that this law which comes into force on 1 April will be well prepared?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1090	As I mentioned in my first answer, the Health Ministry's view is that there is full agreement between the regulation, from 1995, which applies in this area, and the new provisions of the law to which the representative Lena Jensen refers. It is the municipalities as owners of the schools or counties as owners of the secondary schools who are responsible for complying with the requirements of the regulation on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools. At the same time, the municipality is the approval authority and supervises compliance with the requirements of the regulation. Therefore, the addressee of this question is in the first row the municipality. The size has taken direct responsibility for the renewal of school buildings through the scheme that was set up in its time. From the Ministry of Health, we will be committed to assessing the follow-up on the basis of the back-up reports we receive from the supervisory authorities and the professional advisers that the Ministry has in this area, in the first row of the Institute of Public Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1099	I would like to thank you for the answer, but it is the case that the Council of State, which is responsible for health in Norway, cannot discharge its responsibility – he has overall overall responsibility for the students who go to Norwegian school. When half of the students have such a poor indoor environment that it does not promote health, learning or well-being in the classroom, action needs to be taken. The state also needs to develop its expertise and inform about these requirements that will be implemented by the state, and at the same time go in and contribute financially. The municipal economy, which Clemet was in today's state council, is not good, and you have to go in with state resources and competence to the municipalities that are going to implement this. My question to the Council of State is again: What concrete plans does the Council of State have to increase competence and improve the economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1108	I ask the President's understanding that I cannot go into the constitutional responsibility of neither the Minister of Education nor the Minister of Municipal Affairs in my response to this. I stick to what's my overall responsibility, and I'm not trying to push that away in any way. On the contrary, I have grasped the specific matter, because a media look-up gave the impression that the Ministry of Health and Health were looking to compromise the norm recommended by the professional authorities in this area. We're not. I want to make sure that message is known, both to those who have asked directly, and to the local authorities. Then, on the basis of the feedback received by the health authorities, we will consider follow-up measures to ensure that the regulation is complied with as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1113	Question 8 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1121	This question, from the representative May Britt Vihoven to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1124	I have asked the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: «Recently price developments in electricity are a reminder that it would make sense for both society and the individual household to economy with the current. The community and its suppliers must be involved. Viken Nett has recently chosen to set up the firmware on its own. This makes saving on the current less profitable. How can the Council of State help prevent such a change in the weighting between fixed and variable prices?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1133	It follows from the Energy Code that transmission system users shall cover costs related to the development and operation of the network. The majority of costs in the network are fixed capital-based costs that do not vary with customers’ energy withdrawals. The costs are mainly covered by the network lease. Furthermore, the Energy Code follows the design of the network lease in such a way as to give the user of the network, as far as possible, an indication of the efficient use and development of the network. A network company is responsible for determining the network lease in the delivery area in line with the energy law regulations, and the NVE regulations have more specific requirements for the design of the network lease. Households usually have a variable energy link and a fixed link. The energy stage covers marginal loss costs and may also cover a proportion of the other costs not incurred through the fixed link. The terminal shall contribute to ensuring adequate revenues for the transmission system company. The total revenues of the network company are provided and regulated by the NVE. The network companies have a certain freedom within the framework of the regulations to determine the variable energy level and the fixed link of the network lease. An energy link higher than the value of marginal losses does not give consumers signals of efficient use of the network. Such energy links, on the other hand, provide additional signals for consumers on the energy saving and use of alternative energy sources. When a network company increases steadily, the energy level is reduced so that revenues from network leases remain unchanged. The fixed link will in itself mean that the average network lease decreases with increased consumption. A conversion in the direction of increased fixed joints reinforces this somewhat. I see that saving on the current then seems less profitable. It is therefore necessary for the network companies to make certain adjustments in the determination of network rentals. However, it is important to bear in mind that the network owner’s costs of having households connected to the network vary very little in relation to the customer’s consumption. A small household customer is therefore almost as expensive for the network company as a large household customer. With regard to Viken Nett’s web rental for 2003, I believe that it is not right for me to give a concrete assessment of it, since the Ministry of Oil and Energy is the Board of Appeal in such cases if they are charged. However, I am aware that the fixed link has increased significantly compared to 2002. However, the fixed point of the Week Net for households remains significant below the average fixed point for households in Norway. I believe it is important that the network companies have a certain degree of freedom in determining network rentals for different customer groups, but there should be a reasonable relationship between the fixed and the energy level, so that one can also meet customers' perception of what is an acceptable network tariff. The freedom of network operators in the setting of network leases is important for the use of network leases as an active instrument in relation to the efficient use and development of the network.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1146	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I can agree that having a certain amount of freedom when setting rentals for different customer groups is good. This may allow large customers to regulate their energy consumption on the web, but for ordinary people it is not possible. Now we're in a situation where the power price has risen. Then the power price starts going down again, people think about energy saving and how they use the energy, and then they set up grid-free. I saw that as a question mark, because there's nothing in this situation that makes it possible for the renters to go up. This applies not only to Viken Nett, but also to many other energy companies that have given exactly the same signal – and there we sit as customers and cannot influence this. We're wondering, when the income goes down on one piece, do they want to take it back on the other piece? No stimulation and no energy savings from power companies! The oil and energy minister has said that according to the situation we have had this winter, he will evaluate the situation. I assume that there is also that he wants to evaluate the energy law. My question will then be whether the Government or the State Council will assess this with a web lease and the inequality between the variable and the fixed price.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1157	In the light of recent experience with the power market, as the representative has also described, it would be natural to look at a number of issues relating to network rental and leased lines. In this context, I would like to refer to the major decision taken in this area in connection with the treatment of budget revenue. S. No 9 for 2002-2003, which reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government during the spring of 2003 to promote a case for the Storting on different online pricing models, which implies that: 1. Models for price smoothing on network leases shall be developed.2. Tariffing models that are simple and robust against changes shall be developed.’;» This decision will, of course, be continued by the Minister of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and the Stortinget will therefore have an opportunity to return to the questions raised by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1176	A small contribution to the further work – for this also goes on the web rentals and on the pricing: we are up in a situation where very many people now use heat pumps, and incentives and leads have been put in for it to pay off. There are a lot of people who are now demanding builders of houses, they want alternative energy sources to reduce power consumption. One sees an increase in people's awareness when it comes to using alternative sources of energy. We know that there are a lot of power plants in Norway that need upgrading and that need better maintenance to deliver more power. An option to continue building is to maintain and upgrade these power plants. Will the Council also include it in an assessment for energy laws? And what can the state do, and what will the government do to stimulate these power plants to take the necessary upgrade needed to deliver power more efficiently?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1183	State Council Einar Steensnæs has indicated that as a result of the recent situation we have seen in the power market, he will review the situation regarding power and power balance in the Norwegian market. Previously in Stortinget, during previous energy messages, there are also issues related to upgrading existing power plants. I consider it obvious that this will be part of the assessments that the Minister of Oil and Energy will make in this regard. Whether this will be relevant in the context of the Energy Act, I am not sure. That's a legal question. This may bring the Minister of Oil and Energy back.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1192	This question will also be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1195	I want to ask you the following questions: ‘The large increase in the electricity price of winter could have been avoided by increased power generation in the Nordic market. Norway has large gas resources that can be used for power generation, but the three gas plant construction concessions have not been realised due to economic and political uncertainty. In Stavanger Aftenblad on 14 January, Chairman of the Board of Light expressed the desire to start preparing for the construction of a gas power plant in Risavika. Will the Council of State ensure that this and other similar preparations are met positively?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1204	This winter has shown how vulnerable electricity supply is to low rainfall. The claims for the power plants in the autumn of 2002 became the lowest recorded ever. At the same time, we got an early winter with colder weather than usual in the largest consumption areas in the Nordic region, and prices have increased rapidly to a very high level. Although there has now been a period of mild weather, the power situation is still very worrying. The development towards spring is very dependent on the temperatures for the rest of the winter and on when the snow smelting comes in the mountains. The uncertainty about what hydropower can produce is one of the fundamental aspects of today's energy supply. The second basic relationship relates to the fact that over many years there has been a weak growth in generation and transmission capacity in electricity supply compared to the growth of consumption. At the same time, the growth in the use of electricity has been significant. However, the increase in the use of electricity has varied from year to year, for example: due to temperature and short-term variations and varying prices of electricity. The government's policy in this context is based on the broad lines of energy policy, as drawn up in the Energy Communication and the Sem Declaration. The government's position on gas power plants is clearly stated in the Sem Declaration. The decision of the Storting is taken on the basis of the proposed concession gas power stations. Furthermore, it is assumed that additional concession and emission permits may only be granted to gas power plants with CO2 management until a tradable emission system is established in line with the Kyoto Protocol. This will also apply to any application from Light Energy. Central aspects of the Government's energy policy were presented to the Stortinget in the Gas Communication. This Communication draws on the broad lines of a policy for increasing the use of natural gas. In a long-term strategy for improved security of supply, the use of gas can also make important contributions to flexibility. This applies both to the direct use of gas for energy purposes and to gas power stations where CO2 is handled properly. The commitment to gas power stations with CO2 handling is a key element of the Government's energy policy. The aim is to establish framework conditions for the realisation of such gas power plants. The strategy is based on several elements: When there is a concrete project application that the Government wants to support, the Government will propose to implement such a project.The Government will facilitate a scheme to provide investment aid to full scale gas power plants with CO2 management from 2006.The Government will establish a state-owned innovation company for environmentally friendly gas technology in Grenland.The Government aims at a comprehensive investigation of State participation in the development and operation of CO2 infrastructure and the organisation of the use of CO2 for pressure support, possibly landfilling. Finally, I would like to point out that the work on making us less dependent on hydropower through the conversion of energy consumption and production is central to the Government's energy policy. The energy conversion consists of three parts: energy is to be saved, electricity is to be transferred to heat use and several kilowatt-hours from new and environmentally friendly energy sources are to be produced. It's in heating that we have the greatest potential for conversion of energy use. In the longer term, the Government will continue its efforts on the waterborne heat. A central goal of the Government is to strengthen the use of waterborne heat based on new and renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1239	I thank the Council of State for the answer. For the three concessions already granted, the assumptions for profitable operations have been partially changed since the applications were sent. There has been talk about the potential for gas power stations in Grenland, Eastfold and more elsewhere. Risavika is close to the gas sources, and Lights have already launched an offensive effort on domestic gas use. In addition, there are a number of constructions and industries in Risavika that can benefit from waste heat from a gas power plant, thus ensuring a very high level of utilisation. The government has earlier arranged for power generation to be on more legs than hydropower. Why will the Council not show more initiative to assess gas power plant options than the three that have already been granted a concession?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1250	Let me just add some points in relation to the energy conversion. We have the connection of Stortinget to extend waterborne heat by 4 TWh by 2010 and wind power with a production of 3 TWh by 2010. In the short term, we also have a support system to provide greater flexibility with investment in heat pumps etc. The scheme has been brought to a large extent by households and requires the accession of the Stortingen. This means that we will also have a change in the power market as a consequence of measures implemented. Never has so much been spent on new renewable energy sources and saving as it is now. With regard to the representative's questions relating to the potential project in Light, it is that the Government of the Sem Declaration has stated that when we get a gas power plant scheme linked to a CO2 management system that allows us to get an environmentally friendly solution, the Government is open to that. In fact, we are encouraging this to happen, and it could benefit these actors as well as other actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1257	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Light's owners have already shown a long-term attitude when they have invested several DKK 100 million in gas pipes across the Bokenfjord and in distribution networks on the North-Jear. Thus, there is reason to believe that they would have had a greater investment potential in a gas plant if preparation for the construction of a power plant ended in a concrete concession request. Is the real reason for the negative attitude shown here by the Government, the danger that a gas power plant could actually be realized if the concession was given here?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1266	The government's positions are not governed by fear in this context. In fact, all actors will have to deal with the pollution law. The uncertainty expressed in relation to gas power stations is linked to Section 183, where it is said that the best available technology should be used. This is the important thing, and in this context, actually CO2 management is one of the most important in securing new technologies. It is this that is the background that the Government has this attitude, neither fear nor other things. And then it's part of the story that such issues related to any new gas power plant will have to be addressed by other governments later. This is not within the perspective of this grossing-up period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1274	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: «The care centre located in Sandefjord is responsible for preventing suicide. They have a nationwide emergency phone that in 2002 had 2,636 enquiries. This shows that there is a great need for such an offer. The Agency has been refused recognition as a voluntary organisation for tax-free gifts. What is needed to enable this to be done, and what can be done to enable this work to receive public support?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1283	The question has been referred to the Ministry of Finance as the Ministry responsible for the system of deductions to non-governmental organisations. The Ministry of Finance states: Paragraphs 6 to 50 of the Tax Act confers the right to deduct from taxable income the gift of funds to certain voluntary organisations operating in certain areas of charitable and non-profit-making work.As a voluntary organisation within the meaning of paragraphs 6 to 50 of the Tax Act, companies, foundations or associations are considered not to have acquired for the purpose of, for example, promoting care and health for children or young people, the elderly, sick, disabled or disadvantaged groups. In addition, the provision sets out the different areas of activity that are intended to be covered by the scheme. The provision also requires the company or association to have a ‘national scope’. For foundations, the requirement is that it is approved under Section 14 of the Constitutional Act and receives public aid.It is based on paragraphs 6 to 50 of the Tax Act that detailed rules on the deduction scheme are laid down in a separate regulation. The Regulation lays down provisions which require the scope, statutes, accounts, reporting, etc. of the organisation. These conditions are based on administrative and control considerations. It shall therefore be made available, inter alia: a requirement that the company, the formation or the association be registered in the Register of Entities and that its central members keep an aggregate account of the gifts received, as well as the reporting of the gifts to the tax authorities. The central part of the individual organisation must submit applications for inclusion in the scheme. The application is sent to the local county tax office and any appeal may be brought against it to the Tax Directorate.The Ministry of Finance has no knowledge of the specific case of the local government representative Elsa Scarbøvik refers to. The decision whether an organisation is subject to the tax laws of Sections 6 to 50 would have to be based on a concrete assessment of whether the above mentioned conditions are met. Any such refusal may, as referred to above, be appealed to the Directorate of Taxation.’;» In conclusion, as regards the possibility of public support for the Care Centre, I do not know enough about the Centre's activities to assess whether State aid can be granted. I am also not aware that the care agency has applied for support for the company. In any case, no application has been registered in the Ministry of Children and Family, and, as far as I am aware, in no other department or department. In other words, I can give no promise here and now about public support for the business, but it is of course up to the agency to apply for support. It is only on the basis of an application that it can be determined whether the Centre will satisfy public support requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1301	I thank the Council of State for the answer. When I hear what the Ministry of Finance says about what is going on to be recognized as a voluntary organisation to receive tax-free gifts, I feel that this care centre is in the middle of the flash. The care centre carries out suicide prevention activities and assists people with mental problems in achieving a better quality of life. Clients are primarily located through the emergency telephone, which is listed in all local and national telephone directories. It's nationwide. Work is carried out by telephone calls, social work interviews in the office, counselling and guidance, as well as on-call service at home. The centre is a low-threshold facility and serves as a complement to public psychiatry. After all, suicide is taboo today, and it's about getting access to people who are working to counteract this. Does the Council of State see that such a centre can be a good complement to the public, and that the design of the criteria — which contain some judgement — can include such a care centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1310	What definitely seems to be right is that this center is making a great and voluntary effort in a very important area of our society. However, for one who does not deal with these rules related to tax exemptions, it is very difficult to answer a direct question as to whether it will come under a scheme administered by another department. If it is true that they have been rejected in the first instance, I hope that they have appealed the case to the Tax Directorate, which is then the next paragraph, and then you will be waiting and see what any deficiencies they may have if they do not come under the scheme. In addition to this, it is possible to send an application, preferably to the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. At least we'll be able to become more familiar with this center. But there are different support schemes in different departments, and I cannot say here and now that they will receive support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1315	I thank you for a positive answer, and for seeing the benefits of such a care centre. When the proposal for tax-free gifts to non-governmental organisations came forward, this very centre was able to operate even more intensively, because this has been done on voluntary gifts. They have received some public support from the municipality. They have sent an application to the Ministry of Social Affairs many years ago, but were referred to the local municipalities and county council. The application has now been rejected in the county council, because it is believed that such work has now been taken over by the state. That's why you now want a government commitment to this. Knowing that the Government wants to strengthen prevention – and by preventing suicide – this family policy is at its best, because we know what tragedies it brings – I would ask the State Council, when such an application is made in relation to non-governmental organisations, to assess whether the care agency can be included. How does she view this now that things have been transferred from the county to the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1324	There has been a number of discussion related to different grant schemes granted by county councils, including: we have had a discussion about the crisis centres about who is responsible for what. The whole point, however, is that as long as the Ministry of Children and Family and other departments do not know the care agency at all – we do not know anything about the operation, about how the economy is, or at all anything about the good work they seem to be doing – we will actually depend on getting some more information and, of course, a formal application before I can somehow stand here and say that they come within a scheme that either the Ministry of Children and Family or perhaps other departments, which in this case might be more natural, could contribute. But, as I said, I can't say anything until we get an application, so I encourage it, if, against assumption, they don't come under the tax exemption scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1332	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘The criteria for the granting of State aid for the construction of student housing require the allocation of funds, inter alia. in relation to coverage. In allocating funds for 2003, Student Cooperation in Bergen, with a coverage rate of 11.7 p.m., has applied for support for 343 housing units, but has been committed to funding only 80. At the same time, Oslo has 19.7 p.m. coverage rate supported for 400 housing units. Does the Council of State consider such an allocation to be fair and in accordance with adopted guidelines?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1341	In granting commitments to student housing for 2003, Bergen received 82 commitments. Together with commitments previously made, unrealised commitments, Bergen will be able to realise one of its projects and thus increase the coverage. In Oslo there are two interactions, Student Society in Oslo, SiO, and Oslo and Akershushøk School Student Association, OAS. SiO has a coverage of 19.7 pst. and OAS of 8.7 pst. in Oslo. The OAS is one of the lowest coverage interactions in the country, and of the 340 commitments to Oslo, the OAS was prioritised with 205 commitments. In addition, OAS was granted 60 commitments for its project in Lillestrøm. In granting commitments to student housing for 2003, the Ministry has followed the leadership of the Stortinget and the guidelines underlying this grant scheme. The significant contribution to the Bjølsen project to Student Cooperation in Oslo is in line with the leadership of the Church, Education and Research Committee, which has provided the Ministry with the following information: Budget-in-one. No 12 for 1999-2000. Furthermore, as said Oslo and Akerhushögskolener's student relations are one of the lowest level of coverage in the case of student housing, and were therefore prioritised in the distribution of the year. These special conditions are the basis for Oslo's overall commitment in the year-by-year distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1350	Having student housing is important for recruitment. It also means that when you have a dwelling at your disposal, it will facilitate the possibility for students to have a dwelling. I'm a little surprised that the Student Association in Oslo actually has a lot of vacant furniture and apartments, which you can see when you go in and check the Internet. One has to ask the question whether this is a fair distribution, when they seem to have dwellings, which may not have the standard that some students expect today, but there are actually dwellings out there. It is then that one reacts in a way both in Bergen and Trondheim, which have a low coverage, while the seemingly many available furniture are directed by the Student Association in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1357	I have also seen in the media that there are some student homes that are unused, and you can ask questions about it and make reflections about it. But the question is whether we've followed the leadership that the Storting has given. And that's what we mean. The size has been very clear on the implementation of the Bjølsen project, which concerns Oslo, but also the Stortinget has been very clear that those with the lowest coverage, especially the big cities, must be given priority. It may help to confuse the picture a little, but the university students in Oslo and Akershus also have a much worse coverage than the students in some other big cities, under 9 pst. in Oslo. And it's worth noting in relation to the supplementary question that now came: these students don't have access to SiO's homes and are given very high priority for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1364	It's an explicit measure from Stortinget's side that one should come up to a coverage of 20 pst. during 2005. Now one sees that it will not now with the rate that Stortinget has set up. Will the Council of State take action to achieve the objective of having a good coverage also for the other major student cities, such as Trondheim, Bergen and Tromsø, where the pressure on housing prices is actually very high? It is also one of the criteria for allocation in addition to the number of foreign students. The question is whether the Council of State will take some initiatives to increase the rate of construction of several student homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1373	This is partly a budgetary question, and it is clear that it could have been desirable at a slightly higher rate. In 2003, some 200 million have been allocated. kr, which is approx. 726 commitments for 2003, while an application was made for commitments for 3,300 furniture units, which in total would require an allocation of almost 900 million. kr. It is also true that with what we got, we have also failed to achieve the goal of 1000 units of furniture. This is because when we give priority to the big cities, they have a higher cost framework, and therefore it has become a lower number of furniture units. I can't say anything but that I'm going to do my best to maintain as good a pace as possible, but of course I can't issue any guarantees, as this is also a budgetary issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1380	Question 13 will be answered later in today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1387	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «In winter we have experienced many delays and cancellations on the railways, especially during a period of cold weather and snow. Such a weather situation should not be particularly surprising or unexpected in Norway. What is the reason for this, and what will the Council of State do to prevent the same happening in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1396	Earlier in winter, we ourselves had unusual weather conditions for Norway with a combination of large quantities of light snow followed by a long and continuous cold period. This resulted in large amounts of snow packing between the bogie and the train body during driving. In addition, the cold caused severe icing on moving parts of the infrastructure, e.g. switches of track. In some cases large temperature differences between long tunnels and blast furnaces resulted in snow being transformed into compact ice mass that damaged trains. This was especially true of the old local genes. All available capacity for thawing, drying and repairing trains was put into service to reduce the disadvantages for customers. NSB staff made a great effort to get trains back into traffic as quickly as possible. The railway works, on their side, re-prioritized 5 million. kr that was inserted into additional winter preparation during the relevant period. The local train park has a high average age. Moisture in the engines led to engine problems for many of the oldest local genes in the Oslo area. The engines in these trains were immediately replaced. The trains of this type are being upgraded and the electric motors are being re-imposed to make them less sensitive to snow and water penetration. This has already been implemented for most train sets and the experience of this period is that the measure provides much higher operational stability. In the 2003 state budget, the government increased the purchase of services by NSB by nearly 90 million. kr. This covers, inter alia: use of 36 new train sets in local train traffic in Oslo and Akershus and in the Stavanger area. The 36 new type 72 localogens are in delivery and have fewer critical components placed so that they can be exposed to an ice explosion. The signature trains, which are of more recent date, also came through the period of relatively small problems. NSB is now going through the different types of trains carefully to see if further improvements can be found. At the same time, the Railway Agency is working to find solutions to limit problems in such areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1411	I thank you for the answer, and I think it is good that the Council of State takes this seriously. We had some weeks, at least a couple, where this was in the news every day. I have a whole bunch of bad news for people who travel by train or consider travelling by train. Amongst other things, the train was stopped because the brakes were no longer working. Then put in another train, on which the brakes also went. And we read on about train chaos at Dombås, that the snow created trouble, that there is always a train running, and that the train and tram chaos is continuing. It seems pretty much improvised what was inserted by measures. There was damage to the material, but there was also a lack of brewing. Then I ask myself, is it acceptable in the winter country of Norway that this thickest coma like a shock on the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1420	It'll always be that there'll be a little bit of extreme relationships even if we're a winter country. We're prepared for the snow coming every winter, and it's like a blast at some point. Then, however, we sometimes experience that weather conditions become such that extra problems are created. When I've gone through all the actions that were carried out both within the railway works and the NSB, it's just to give a signal that it's being done a lot, and we'll follow that up. We're a winter country, we're going to be, and I hope we're going to experience many winters ahead with snow and winter conditions. This means that we also need to be prepared for this both on the transport side and on the infrastructure side. We have to make sure that trains go even when it is cold.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1430	I thank you again for your answer. I hope I can interpret the council so that this will not repeat later in winter or the next winter at the corresponding temperatures, that one has now seen better measures to ensure that this will not happen as the Christmas evening on the ring. And then it has a general side. I read in the same clip that one of the four Signature trains is delayed. In that case, one cannot, in essence, be indebted to old material. There are more questions about how to deal with this as a problem. Everyone, both the Council of State and I in the Labour Party, are very busy getting more people on the track. But if a set car comes home one day and stays at the station and waits for a train that doesn't come, or if it comes up in half an hour and maybe not, it might be the time one tries to take the train. Then we don't achieve the goal of getting the most out of the way and on the way. Therefore, punctuality, especially for people who travel to work and education, is entirely decisive for us to achieve the goal. I would like to hear the reflections of the Council of State on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1439	It's no secret that I'm very busy with the railway, and that I want people to choose to travel by rail over by private car. The NSB is constantly working to put the customer in focus. We need to pay attention to the fact that we want to have with the individual traveller. That's why we have to do what we can to facilitate that it becomes attractive for travellers actually to travel by rail. This applies in relation to information, availability of services on the railway, etc. This is what I'm concerned about. When it comes to exactly the conditions we've had in winter, they've been difficult both in terms of transport on the NSB and in relation to the infrastructure. We've learned a lot that we can take advantage of later. It may also be problematic to drive a car when it is cold, so there have been challenges for those who are going to travel, regardless of the means of transport. But all in all, yes, I'm concerned that people are going to want to travel by rail, and that we're going to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1453	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘The railway station and the NSB, which have shared responsibility for punctuality, are unable to meet the target of nine out of ten trains on the eastern route. In total, the eastern line ended at 74 pst. spring punctuality. Many Eastern commuters suffer because of this. delays and poor service and sees the bus as a good alternative. What will the Council of State contribute to the achievement of the objective of greater punctuality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1462	I want to start by saying that I am incredibly happy, albeit a little surprised – I see this almost as historic – that the representative Hedstrom is now committed to bringing up the quality of the railway in Norway. The surprise is that when the government in the autumn made proposals to step up the commitment to maintenance and investment in the railway by close to 300 million. In 2003 and granting more funding to the NSB for the renewal of today’s old trainset in local traffic, the Progress Party was the only party against this. Yes, not only that, the Progress Party enters its alternative budget for 2003 to cut maintenance and railway investment by over DKK 1 billion and almost halve the state purchase of passenger transport. In the position of the Committee on Transport's budgetary position, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy states that: «resources made available by the majority of the population for passenger transport must be channelled into road maintenance and road construction». The Party of Advancement further says: ‘It makes no sense to use large sums to produce a service with a significant deficit and which must be subsidized by taxpayers rather than using aircraft, car and bus.’ The policy of the Progress Party, as indicated in the 2003 budget position, would have had dramatic consequences both for train services, punctuality and safety for train travellers in Eastfold and elsewhere in the country. The most important thing I want to do in order to take into account the concerns of the representative Hedstrom is therefore to focus on increased maintenance and renewal of materials on the railway, instead of the degradation policy that Hedstrom's own party has been pursuing. But if the representative Hedstrøm on this question warns of a total breach of the Progress Party's own policy in this area, nothing will please me any more. In the case of the eastern line in particular, the NSB has significantly increased the number of take-offs in recent years, making use of its own material and a limited infrastructure maximum during the rush period. The eastern line has an infrastructure of an older type with few crossing options and limited capacity. The stretch is also not remote controlled. When delays have occurred between Oslo and Ski, these are further exacerbated against the Wysen because you do not have the same opportunity to switch crossings as on a remote route. In addition, the sniffing times of the Whey have been relatively short. In addition to the government's increased commitment to maintenance in 2003, the NSB and the Railway Agency have set up their own project to monitor punctuality, including: between Oslo and Ski, in order to identify measures that can be implemented without having to make major improvements to the infrastructure. From the change of route in June 2003, Kråkstad station will be operated by train dispatcher from the Railway Station in order to take crossings during rush times. This will make the operation of the east line more flexible. Furthermore, the turning times of the Whey for the trains to return towards Oslo will be extended.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1493	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I felt that she was trying to talk away from the policy for which the government is responsible, and the adopted budget. She spent a lot of time criticising the policies and alternative solutions of the Progress Party for transport, which this issue does not involve. It is within the policy of the Government that we have a critical regularity. It has also become worse in the last months of last year and is completely down to 65 pst. with the transport policy for which the Government is responsible. It's not the small deviations, it's over 3 minutes, which means so much, but it's the major deviations that have significant socio-economic consequences for both commuters and other travelers. Isn't it time to try to restore confidence in the NSB by choosing from the Government's side to bet on providing better service and getting better regularity, i.e. the government knows its own visitation time?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1504	I'm still very surprised, and I'm impressed by the commitment of the Progress Party to this issue. I'm very happy that this is an engagement, because the railway is important. I belong to a government and a party that is engaged in finding good collective solutions, and the railway is important in that way. I've now given an answer to what we're doing on the east line to improve the regularity, and it's important to make it attractive for people to travel. I hope now, with this show from the Progress Party, that this is the turning point for the Advance Party, that they also want to give priority to the railway, and that they see that good rail solutions do not come of themselves, but that we actually have to spend money on getting to those solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1511	I would like to make it clear to the Council of State that the policy for which she stands has contributed to the fact that, according to the Institute of Transport Economics, last year the NSB, 500,000 of these passengers have moved to express buses and that far more people use private cars. The transport policy that the Council of State says she stands for has apparently not worked. With regard to the commitment of the Progress Party and the appropriations and bets made on the railway, inter alia: with new trains – Agenda and Signature and other train sets – of course we are interested in getting the most socio-economic benefit out of those investments. When the number of passengers with an NSB goes down, we risk that there will be fewer departures and that the service will be poorer. At the same time, this has a negative environmental impact by more people using buses and cars. It should be a matter of concern to the Council of State and to the transport policy for which she is responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1518	I cannot interpret this in any other way than that the Progress Party now intends to invest heavily on the railway. I'm very grateful for that. We're going to make our own contribution to that together.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1526	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «The E6 north of Lillehammer has in a few years had a significant increase in serious road accidents, with a total of 18 fatal accidents. The traffic figures for large parts of E6 were to be given to the road standard of narrow highway standard with middle parts, according to the new road rules of the Road Directorate. How and when will the Council of State intervene in those road sections that still have serious accidents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1535	Annually, 300 people are killed in road traffic, while over 12,000 are injured. The number of deaths has been declining steadily since 1970. In view of the increasing volume of traffic, this suggests that the work on increased safety on Norwegian roads is beneficial. However, the decline in the number of deaths has been flattening out in recent years, and the number of injuries is increasing more than traffic growth. I'm not satisfied with this, and it reminds us that reducing the number of deaths and injuries in road traffic requires focused and long-term efforts. I believe that, in the future, road safety measures should be directed more systematically towards the most accident-affected routes. In high-traffic sections, the construction of four fields could have an impact on road safety. I would like to refer here to the experience of the new E18 in Westfold. The government has therefore accelerated work on the new four-field E6 motorway through Østfold. In the next national transport plan, the scope of four-field roads will be addressed to new treatment. I think this could be a necessary and proper measure on important parts of the high-traffic main road network. Many meeting accidents on two- and three-field roads with a high frequency of accidents can be prevented by the construction of a mid pulley. In 2003, around 430 million have been set aside. kr on the road budget of secondary works and other specific road safety measures. This is a sharp increase in relation to last year, leading us to the plans of the State Road Service Action Programme for such measures in the years 2002–2005. As a result of the increased appropriations, trials will now be started on the construction of central two- and three-field roads on selected European road sections in the eastern region. In the case of E6 north of Lillehammer, the speed limits south of Øyer were reduced from 90 to 80 km per hour in the autumn of 2001. The impact will be evaluated in 2003. In addition, road lights were set up last year on the route. In addition, E6 between Lillehammer and Øyer will be designated as a demonstration section, using the principles of the zero vision. The aim of this three-year project is to test instruments aimed at both road, road and road traffic and vehicles that can minimise the serious accidents. Significant financial resources will be deployed in the project. One type of action will not only reduce the number of fatalities in traffic as much as we want. Therefore, in parallel with improvements to the road network, it is necessary to strengthen the attitude-building work and to step up the controls on speed, noise and safety belt use. In addition, I strongly believe that the pick-up system for driving licences, which will apply from the next turn of the year, will contribute significantly to limiting both the accidents and the aggressive trends we see in traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1553	I'm very pleased with the answer. There were a lot of positive entries there. But there was a little thing I was thinking about. The Council of State was involved in both increased control and awareness-raising, and in particular the focus will be on the E6 north of Lillehammer. It was unfortunately a major accident again a little south of this place this weekend. She wants a rollout in the national transport plan, which I see very positively, where part of the worst sections will be taken up. The council said nothing that the type of road at Lillehammer would have middle parts and the new road standard with a four-field highway. The road standard should indicate, when there is an annual average traffic of more than 10000, as it is on that route, that the road should have a narrow four-field motorway standard. Will this be assessed on E6 through the Gudbrand valley, which is very vulnerable to fatal accidents?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1560	The state road authority assesses the use of the centre parts on some roads where possible and appropriate, taking into account the accident risk. It's clear that the area we're talking about right now is very accident-affected. There are too many accidents happening there, and that is why we have now focused on that area and taken the starting point of that road section in the case of a so-called zero vision project. We have to do what we can to reduce the accidents. Centers can be one appropriate measure, maybe there are other things, and maybe there's a combination of several things. With regard to which measures are most relevant, I cannot comment on this. We want to look at the relationship between different measures, and put what we think has the most impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1569	I thank you for the answer, which I am very pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1584	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1590	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. ‘In examining the 2003 Transport Budget, the Stortinget Government asked the Government to assess private financing or OPS development to have the Mosseweg in the tunnel. How will the Council of State follow this up and what challenges does the Council of State see in an OPS expansion of the Mosseweg in the tunnel?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1599	I am well aware that the situation along the E18 Mosseweg is not experienced as satisfactory, neither for road-traffic road users nor for those who live along it. The Mossevej is currently serving as the main road for regional bus traffic and the highway for residential areas in Oslo. High traffic on this road leads to reduced progeny, environmental pressures and road accidents. The phase-out during the rush periods is characterized by delay and queues. In the light of the Stockholm budget review for 2003, I have recently asked the Directorate of Roads for an assessment of the feasibility of developing the Mosseweg tunnel based on private funding. In the assessment to be made by the Directorate of Roads there are several aspects that need to be taken into account. I would like to point out here that the planning situation is an important premise for the use of the OPS model. In the case of a OPS project, an approved regulatory plan must be in place at the time of the call. Furthermore, the overall capacity of the Sørenga road system needs to be assessed, and the distribution of traffic in the area – in particular, it is important to look at the relationship with the E18 Bjørvika project. With the plans available for E18 Bjørvika, it is also essential, in my view, to take a closer look at the safety of a comprehensive tunnel system in a densely trafficked area. It is an overall objective of the Government to increase the overall collective share in the Oslo area, and it is therefore important to look at how public transport in this area should be served. In my view, considering the objective of increasing collective participation, it is unfortunate, in my view, to increase road capacity at the same time. However, in the case of road projects that, in an environmental and urban development context, relieve the local environment – without increasing road capacity overall – this could of course be positive. I am aware that there is a process going on locally with a possible continued user payment in Oslo following the closure of the bombing in 2007. As is also known, it is assumed that the E18 Bjørvika project will be partly financed by the user. In this context, it is necessary to consider how financing a tunnel project on Mossevegen, i.e.: the repayment to the OPS carrier, if any. I have asked the Directorate of Roads to give an assessment of the case by 1 March, with a view to returning to Stortinget with an assessment of the proposal for private financing of Mossevegen during the spring of 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1614	I thank you for your answer. The Mosseweg in a four-field tunnel will be a necessary completion of large capacity extensions on the road network between Fiskvoll and the connections southwards. Equally important is the environmental aspect of the project. The tunnel will reduce unwanted traffic through the residential areas and on the school roads in the neighbourhoods. The beachline will be opened to thousands of people for recreation. A four-field tunnel opens up collective trasé in both directions and thus for a higher collective share. Finally, as part of Oslo's overall tunnel system, the tunnel will contribute to better accessibility, less cork and less pollution. Is the Minister of the opinion that the environmental aspects of the project should be an important driving force in the work of the Mosseweg in the tunnel?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1623	The environmental aspects of the Mosseweg in tunnels are very important. There are many different environmental aspects related to the road. In addition to the environmental aspects on which the representative is involved, I can mention those on local air pollution and barriers to fjords. What's going to be very difficult today could be better. When we investigate this, it is also important to look at the whole of the transport pattern in the area and for the city as such. That is why it is both right and important that we address this project now and get this investigated in conjunction with, among other things. The Bjørvika project and the challenges of Sørenga.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1628	I thank you for the answer, which I see as very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1633	Question 19 has been answered earlier. Then, after the adopted amendments, we go back to question 8, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. The question shall be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade. Per Roar Bredvold is not present in the hall. He has apparently missed this smoking in the questions. Then, after the adopted amendments, we go to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1645	This question, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1648	I have the following questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, who will be answered by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The learning situation for maritime education in Agder needs to be improved. Norway is one of the world's largest shipping nations. It is now important to quickly put in place international framework conditions for Norwegian maritime activities so that we can create new optimism in the industry. There will then still be a need for Norwegian teams and recruitment to the traditional maritime professions. Can the Council of State already state that maritime education and recruitment will have a central place in the notified maritime navigation message?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1657	Maritime issues have been dealt with in the Storting several times in recent years. That's about. seven years since the submission of a separate report on shipping by the Stortinget, the Government wishes, through the notified Communication on Maritime Policy, a broad review of industry's challenges and policy choices. Shipping and maritime industries are an important part of Norwegian business and also have an important role in world trade as an environmentally friendly transport option. The Norwegian-controlled fleet is the third largest in the world, giving Norwegian authorities a special role in international work on the environment and safety at sea. A general issue in shipping and related industries is how value creation in this competitive industry will develop over time. Given a high Norwegian cost level for skilled labour, it is important to increase the knowledge content of products and services on the basis of the expectation that this will also increase productivity per hour. High research and development efforts and very good market knowledge are crucial factors in achieving this. In this perspective, the organisation of knowledge-driven business development and innovation is important in order to ensure the competitiveness of the shipping industry over time. Several areas of Norwegian shipping are currently experiencing increased competition and new challenges. The structure of the freighter fleet is fragmented and with consistently low performance, and in the offshore industry a lower level of activity on the Norwegian base creates a new situation. Both of these sectors are exposed to increasing competition, mainly in the EEA territory. The envisaged enlargement of the EEA area could also affect the competitive situation of Norwegian shipping. Furthermore, representatives of the fishing fleet have been involved in the competitive relationship between the fishing fleet and the merchant fleet in terms of maritime competence. The Government wants to involve industry organisations, as well as other relevant trade unions, in the process of reporting on shipping. As with other parts of Norwegian industry, shipping is also facing increasing competition in the EEA area, both in terms of labour, competence and capital. Globally, it is also a challenge to ensure the training of a sufficient number of officers to meet future demand. Therefore, in view of the need for maritime competence in the years ahead, there may be a basis for reviewing both maritime education and recruitment, and the Government therefore proposes that this will be addressed in the planned maritime roll-out notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1672	I thank the Council of State Solberg for the answer, an answer that shows that now the Government has finally started and sees the need to review Norwegian maritime activities and policies. It is very important that the Stortinget and the Government now clarify the future framework conditions to be allocated to Norwegian maritime transport in order to stop a imminent large-scale flagging. Norway, as the Council of State said, is still the third largest maritime nation in the world, but we can quickly lose that place if we do not quickly put in place long-term, stable, predictable and competitive framework conditions for the industry. We also need to remember that a significant part of the country’s business life has a direct link to shipping, and the industry as a whole means a lot to Norwegian jobs. My question to the Council of State must then be something like: Why has it taken so much time for the Government to finally understand that now something has to be done, and so now has announced its own big message about shipping? We have known for several years that there have been framework conditions for Norwegian shipping that have not met the framework conditions in most EU countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1681	It is not such that nothing has been done in relation to the framework conditions for Norwegian shipping. During the 1990s, some roofs have been taken, and it was also seven years ago that there was a wholesale treatment. We have created a new tax system for the shipping industry, which has helped to provide significantly better framework conditions, at the strong desire of the shipping industry itself. We have also had arrangements with different degrees of reimbursement and subsidisation of employees in shipping. What has happened now is that there has been a continuous change in the framework conditions for shipping. This means that there is a need to review and see if the arrangements we have are well adapted, not least in relation to other types of Norwegian business and the use of resources, which are also lacking in our society. There is no doubt that this government believes that shipping is an important part of the maritime cluster. That's why it's important for us to take care of it in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1690	I thank you for the answer, which was okay enough. But I have enough with me when I find reason to correct some criticism of the Government's passivity and that not enough has been done in the past, and that this has gone too slowly. We could see in the news on TV 2 yesterday that right-wing rapporteurs across the West and a combined shipping industry rebelled against the Government's shipping policy, and that a large-scale deflagration was planned. Although it is a fact that only a few years ago Norway probably had the world’s most favourable shipping policy, much has changed since then. Now most other countries are far better than Norway in this area, and we have to do something. I hope and ask that the Government now really add up to a price change in the direction of a more positive view of Norwegian shipping. Then I think we can once again create new optimism in the industry, so that both the apprenticeship situation and the recruitment process can be improved. Finally, let me ask: does the Council of State of Solberg share that perception – and the Government, too – that the net pay system, with tonnage taxes, is one of the most important elements when we talk about strengthening Norwegian shipping?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1699	The government acknowledges that we have reached a budgetary compromise with the Progress Party, which has protected the net pay system as it is today, over a period of time, and we are going through the issues related to the budgetary conciliation and the further development of the arrangements. Now I want to stress that there are many sectors of today's business that are exposed to rather tough international competition. It's not just shipping. However, in some areas shipping will be more competitive in the years to come. That's one of the reasons why we, among other things, have looked at the issue of coastal work permits, which have enabled us to meet those parts of international shipping that have been afraid that we should use that issue to restrict competition, thus helping to lure international shipping back again. It's not a simple question to figure out how to manage both to be competitive and to maintain skills when there are so many wealth inequalities and cost inequalities in the world. It's a perspective that we have to include in the big news, that we're not going to be competitive on all points in the future. Then we have to find the areas where we can be competitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1708	Then we go back to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1715	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1718	I would like to ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: ‘There is no official control of current meters. This means that you can risk some current meters going too fast, and that you pay for the current you have not used. The network provider you are connected to owns the current meter, but is not required to adjust it. That's because current meters today are exempt from the law of measurement and weight. Current meters can therefore measure errors for years without it being discovered. Does the Council of State in these ‘stream times’ see this as strange, and will the Council of State do anything about this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1727	The representative asks whether the accuracy of current meters is adequately controlled at present. There are now about 2.2 million current meters in Norwegian households and small businesses, and with the current prices and the consumption of electrical energy we have today, inaccurate current meters can have economic consequences both for the individual consumer and for the individual small business. I would therefore first like to state that regardless of any control mechanisms, the network providers have a clear responsibility to ensure that the current meters are of good quality so that consumers and small businesses can have confidence in the measurement results. In order to improve the quality of current meters in Norway, pre-market monitoring of current meters was introduced as of 1 January 2003. Pre-market control means that the current meters are type-approved and checked before being sold. The introduction of pre-market control ensures that power meters sold in Norway are accurate and reliable and are in line with international quality requirements. In the case of current meters already in use, it is true that there is currently no official control. At the same time, reducing the form field is an objective of the Government's policy, and we will therefore be careful to introduce new and cost-intensive control and regulatory arrangements. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has contacted Adjustvesen, a specialist in the field, in order to determine the extent to which mismeasures are necessary in order to identify the extent to which official control systems are needed. In the autumn of 2002, the Adjustervesen proposed, following an assessment, that statistical control of current meters by approved laboratories be required by the network provider. The adjustment service shall monitor the implementation and follow-up of the results. However, on the basis of the information collected by Adjustervesen, it is difficult to demonstrate that a control system will lead to some socio-economic gain or loss. In this context, the Minister of Economic Affairs will initiate a dialogue with the network providers as well as other relevant departments and institutions to see how we can ensure that the public has the necessary confidence in the indicators.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1744	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was partly okay, but at the same time I am not quite satisfied. This is, of course, seen in relation to the current buyers today. There are 2.2 million current meters scattered around Norway, and many of the power buyers buy electricity for 20,000–30000 kroner a year, perhaps more, perhaps less — of course it varies. There's really no law about this meter. But if you go to a gas station and buy one litre of petrol at NOK 9, the pump has been checked against a law – the pump is adjusted and checked every year according to the law of measurement and weight. It is clear that in order for the buyer to have a trust relationship with the seller, there must also be a current meter that the buyer is 100 pst. be sure to show correctly, and in particular in those times. Now it's about so much money compared to one liter of gasoline that I just took as an example. I also thank the Council of States, of course, for having a dialogue with the Internet service provider, but one must have something more stringent, and there must be more controls. Because it is that a buyer is insecure, he can get one to come and look at the current meter, but if it is correct, the power buyer has to pay for the check, and if it is wrong, it costs nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1751	There is a significant difference between one pump at a station and gas stations around the country and 2.2 million current meters, just that there are so many of them. When calculations from Adjustervesen show that there is not necessarily a socio-economic gain, this means that mismeasurements may not be so large that it is right to put in place a complete control system. So I actually thought that the Progress Party, in the same way as the government parties, is committed to and agreed that we should spend less resources on things that are not targeted in our society. I agree that it is important for the network companies and the power buyers that their current meters are credible. Therefore, there is a system where you can contact your Internet service provider and get a check on the system. However, I would like to remind you that it may also be a very large cost operation, so it is important to have a control mechanism so that you do not do it if it is unnecessary, and one of those mechanisms will always be that you may have to pay for that visit if it turns out it is not wrong. But the Minister of Industry will go through this and have a dialogue with the online companies, and I think that, when we have not found a socio-economic benefit by introducing an official control system and a new regulatory framework in this area, that should be the right way to go. Therefore, we need a better justification – when we do not have an economic savings and do not see it – for introducing new official control mechanisms.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1758	I thank you once again for your answer. It is clear that both the Advance Party and the Government Parties believe that we should spend less resources on such things, as the Council of State says. But at the same time we have to think about the individual consumer. If you buy power for $30,000 and the current meter goes 10 pst. incorrect, it's 3000 kroner, and the number of years ahead is going to be a lot of money. Also, when there is no law or regulation on how often a current meter is to be replaced or adjusted in other ways, it may be that some are somewhat uncertain whether the current meter is working correctly. I also believe that a control system would have the effect that those who might think of cheating with a current meter – I say ‘thinking’ to cheat with a current meter – would not. So I don't think this will necessarily cost anything to the Internet service provider, because I think it's going to be a plus-minus utility here that comes out at zero, but that you get a good trust relationship with the Internet service provider.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1765	So there's an estimate from Adjustervesen that shows neither gain nor loss socio-economically. And there's also an estimate of what a statistical, random, measurement will cost. It'll cost you about 20 million. kr. There will be an equalization on the others, but such statistical control will not give the individual a greater guarantee that exactly your current meter is correct. Therefore, I think that once the Minister of Industry has said that an active dialogue with the Internet service providers is sought, good solutions should be found to this. In today's situation, I think both energy companies and online suppliers are concerned about having a good customer relationship, working on building credibility, and it can clearly mean that they are also willing to do something in their own service strategies related to their own power meters. Then it might be that it would be right that we keep a little bit away from public intervention in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1770	We go to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1778	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The municipality of Bergen appears very unlucky when it is involved in the smoothing of the tax. The mountain ‘taper’ is also the result of the income blending. Nor can the municipality participate in the special contributions to the income system. The mountains are at 91.6 pst. of the national average, despite the fact that the tax intake is higher than the national average. In October 2002, Bergen applied for additional funds for 2003. What will the Council of State do, and when can Bergen receive an answer to the application?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1787	I know that the municipality of Bergen, as a big city, is facing some challenges that smaller municipalities do not have. As from 2003, the municipality of Bergen is therefore granted a temporary urban grant. During the spring, the government will further present a major urban message addressing the special challenges facing Bergen and the other major cities. The municipality of Bergen applied for 100 million in October 2002. kr in additional framework grants in 2003. In principle, additional framework grants are granted only if a municipality is in a particularly difficult financial situation due to the situation of the municipality itself. The cases with which Bergen was responsible for the application were additional pension costs, maintenance allowance, rushes and psychiatry, population changes and resource-intensive users. These questions are general for the municipal sector and not specific to the municipality of Bergen. In order to avoid compromising the principle of equal treatment between municipalities and counties, the Ministry rejected the Bergen municipality’s application by letter of 29 January 2003. In addition, several of the issues raised by the municipality of Bergen will be better addressed in 2003 than in the past, for example: through a faster impact on population changes and the temporary major city grant. In 2002, the municipality of Bergen had tax revenues of 104 pst. by the national average and was therefore subject to the compensation scheme of the balancing of income. That is, the municipality of Bergen got compensated for 90 pst. of the difference between own taxes and the reference level of 110 pst. of the national average. However, the municipality of Bergen, like all the municipalities of the country, had to contribute to the financing of the balancing of income. Given that Bergen had to have less in gross income equalisation than the cost of financing income equalisation, Bergen ends up with a negative income equalisation grant. The municipality of Bergen had a lower level of free and corrected income than the national average. The municipalities with higher income than the national average have relatively higher tax revenues and/or specific regional policy subsidies. Therefore, as long as there is no full balancing of income and regional policy subsidies are available, the municipality of Bergen has to expect to have a level of income that is slightly below the national average.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1800	I would like to thank you for the answer, but I have to say that I am very disappointed that Bergen has been refused her application. I believe that the Council of State and I are very certain that Bergen is in a particularly difficult situation. And we know that when 230,000 people in Bergen are dependent on health care, care and schooling, there are a lot of them. In several articles, the Official Journal of Bergen has said in the last few days that one must cut as a result of the government feeding the municipalities with the support of the Advance Party. Local authorities are getting too little money to solve basic tasks. Of course, it is also difficult for mountainzars to understand that the tax entrance of Oslo and Stavanger will hit them. Because he's too low. So it's not the tax entrance in Bergen last year that's low, but the tax entrance in other municipalities. I know how the system works, but it is clear that in such a situation, with all the big tasks that are not solved, I ask: What will the council do for the mountain people?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1813	The Council of State has a mandate from the Storting to deal with beauties and to grant special grants. But there's a framework for what the Council of States can do within it. And the framework is that there should be special expenditures and special situations outside your own control. The application submitted by the municipality of Bergen does not show that there is a particularly difficult situation in these areas, or a situation different from that of the rest of the municipal sector. As for the fact that the financial situation is due to events outside Bergen's own control, I must say that I do not entirely agree with that. I believe that some of the reasons for the large deficits in the municipality of Bergen are a lack of cost control, not a very different situation. So to the questions that are different for the municipality of Bergen, namely, questions related to the metropolitan problem. First of all, we have done something about that in the current financial year. We have also said that we will get back to it in the big city message. We're also going to look at the question of income balancing. But it's now such that the income system we have, in some areas, has been partially adopted against my vote, as a former deposit representative from the Right, and it seems negative to Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1824	I thank you again for your answer. It is also the case that a government council has the full opportunity to come to Stortinget with proposals for extra funds for transfers to municipalities, but it did not want this council to do. If the Workers' Party had made its proposal, the municipality of Bergen would have had 45 million. kr more to be routed this year. That's important money. It is clear that in the present situation, where major cities face major challenges, I have to rely on the Council of State to do something about it in the big city message that comes. But it's too bad today. It's too bad a deal. I disagree with the Council of State that Bergen does not have control of its costs. Both KOSTRA and others have shown that the municipality of Bergen is very well managed, but the municipality has a large population and urban problem that one does not have in many other municipalities in this country. So the big city message has to be put on, and then I'll ask the council again: will it do anything for Bergen?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1833	We have reported to Stortinget that we are reporting on urban issues that are both about the way we are going to have a dialogue and interaction with the big cities, because they have special challenges, and about the cost-intensive challenges that big cities have. I agree that parts of the income system need to be looked at, but it needs to be seen in a complete way. I can't go in and say that because I'm from Bergen, or because some big business representatives ask me to, I'm going to give more money to that city, if you can't objectively say that Bergen has come out crooked than anyone else in that system. In addition, I would like to remind you that the latest report from the financial agency in Bergen suggests a deficit of nearly 250 million. kr, so there would not be a lack of ‘cut-off requirement’ also with the representative Ranveig Frøiland’s alternative budget for the municipality of Bergen. I believe that there is still some lack of financial management, and I hope that the municipality of Bergen will be more involved in the conversion processes in which many other municipalities participate, than we have so far seen from the municipality of Bergen. I think they need to get closer control of their own economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1847	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The State Secretary of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has publicly stated that Troms and Finnmark counties should be merged. Do the Council of State agree with the opinion of its State Secretary?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1856	The background to the State Secretary’s opinions is his or her own experiences with boundaries that create unnecessary bureaucracy and burdens for the inhabitants, including: cross-border business activities in that area. Fewer borders, in the case of both county and municipal borders, would, according to the State Secretary's experience, create fewer obstacles and a simpler everyday life for many of the inhabitants of the two states concerned. I agree. As politicians, we need to work for greater simplicity and more efficient use of resources than what we are doing today. What is established as a starting point for both myself and the State Secretary is that associations, both at county and municipality level, should be based on local initiatives and decisions taken by local authorities. But it has not been said that as politicians we cannot participate in the debate on the appropriateness of today's borders. In the specific case, the State Secretary makes his statement on the basis of his close knowledge of these states. Personally, I have no particular point of view as to whether Troms and Finnmark should merge. I'll keep it for you. today no reason to believe anything about it. When Secretary of State Eira as a politician from the area initiates such a debate, I think it is positive, because I think we need some of these debates. The debate must take place locally. Both government and big business have underlined volunteering, but this should not prevent a debate from actually starting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1863	Does the Council of State understand that statements by a Secretary of State need to be understood as the views of the Government, and that such an opinion as the one I referred to creates uncertainty about the conversion of everything from county office to other regional government functions in the states concerned? Or is it that statements by State Secretarys under the Council of State Solberg are to be understood as personal statements and not as the views of the Department and Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1868	In fact, in this government too, there is room for State Secretarys, in line with many former State Secretarys, to take part in a political debate and have political views that are not stamped and sanctioned by a Council of State. In this area, the Government has always stressed the volunteering. We have always stressed the need for local policy debate and the need to focus on the needs of users, citizens. I'm never going to try out the input and views of the State Secretary in a debate. In this way, the Right may have a different organisational culture than the Workers' Party has traditionally had. It is a well-known fact that democratic centralism is somewhat more rooted in the Workers' Party than it has been in the Right. We believe that you can participate in a local debate and initiate such a one, without that means that it becomes a publicly stamped matter that is necessarily the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1877	Can the Council of State then clarify when a State Secretary gives an opinion on the views of the Government and when the State Secretary sees it on his own behalf? In this case, the Secretary of State has expressed a view which must be presumed to be highly controversial and which falls within the responsibility of his department. Is it, then, that the statements of the Secretary of State in the areas of the Ministry of Local Affairs should be disregarded for the time being?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1885	No, you shouldn't, but maybe you shouldn't be so extremely concerned that these are things that should be seen at any time just in the light of the government's policy. I believe that politicians should take part in the local debate. I must remind you that the State Secretary expressed this as a personal view in a wide-ranging interview, in a petition that was selected and made a major matter of the medium that interviewed him. I don't think we get good politicians, either as state secretaries, government members, or in the Grand Duchy for that matter, if we're going to tie up any political debate so that everyone becomes obsessive about what they're saying, because it can be misinterpreted or perceived in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1895	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘During the travel of the family, cultural and administrative committee to the municipality of Eide, the Svanviken State Reception provided a detailed information on the consequences of amended Norwegian legislation on training for asylum seekers which entered into force on 1 January 2003. This has led to increased inaction in everyday life and dissatisfaction among asylum seekers. How will the Council of State assess this situation, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that asylum seekers receive a worthy offer to fill their daily lives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1904	In a situation where the Government has had to make priorities in relation to the allocation of resources, we believe it is most important to give priority to those who will stay in the country in relation to Norwegian education. This priority has been endorsed by the Stortinget, since the proposal to remove Norwegian education for asylum seekers was included in the 2003 draft state budget. Among asylum seekers who come to Norway today, it is about 80 pst. who are not allowed to stay. These are supposed to go home. The government does not consider it appropriate to use large resources in Norwegian education for as many people as are not to remain in Norway. Neither do asylum seekers have a statutory right to an offer of Norwegian education. However, EUR 4.8 million has been allocated for 2003. to activities in reception as a result of the loss of Norwegian training for asylum seekers. Those who have been granted a residence permit, but who remain in receipt pending their residence, will receive Norwegian training as they do now. The government chooses to use the resources for those who have stayed in Norway. As part of this initiative, we are working to make Norwegian training a right and an obligation for the individual. The government has also proposed to legislate a scheme for newly arrived immigrants combining an introduction programme with an introduction grant. The municipalities are responsible for the scheme and are given an obligation to offer an individualised introduction programme to newly arrived immigrants in need of basic qualification. The aim of the introduction system is to provide new entrants with an effective and appropriate transition to professional life or to regular education. Some municipalities have already put in place similar schemes, while the proposed legislation proposes to make the scheme mandatory from 1 September 2004. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that many asylum seekers with assumed groundless applications have a short period of residence in reception. The Directorate-General for Foreign Affairs now practises a differentiated treatment of asylum applications and focuses on their prompt treatment with suspected unfounded applications. Such persons are also given priority for transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1915	During the visit to Eide Municipality, clear messages came from both political and administrative management, from the management of the reception, and not least from the applicants. In Eide, there has been a pretty strong community commitment to this. They've invested in competence, and they've built an international school around this. Norwegian education was definitely at the bottom of this training exercise. I share the opinion of the Council of State that it is important to reduce the processing time, and I am pleased that it is said. The fact is that there are still quite many months and actually years. The result is they're turning around 24 hours a day. They take the kids out of kindergarten and there'll be sparks. We have received a similar signal from Nord-Trøndelag, there approx. 10 pst. satisfactory Norwegian education is currently provided by the applicants. I did not intend to raise a debate on immigration policy in general – that was not my intention – but Norwegian education is fundamental, and as the Council of State says, it is about. 20 pst. who are allowed to stay. Then my question is, is the possibility of proper integration for these 20 percent kind of sacrificed through this decision? After all, it's 20 pst. to be in Norway. Does the Council of State share that view?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1924	No, in fact, I believe that the sets of measures we put in place involve a much more systematic and strong follow-up of those who are going to settle, than has been the case in the past. Among other things, one of the most important measures is to provide compressed and good Norwegian training. I would like to draw attention to the fact that for many years we have received strong signals that the training in Norwegian for asylum seekers has been difficult because in the classes there have been people who have rejected, who have not been motivated to participate in the teaching, and who have been alarming, so that the quality of the use of these funds has not been good in many places either. What we're going to do, of course, is focus strongly on Norwegian training as soon as they have received a positive decision. I want to comment on one thing about the long time you sit on reception. Many of those who sit for a long time have been rejected and are waiting for their complaint. Right that group actually has a very low motivation to participate in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1931	The Council of State recalls the activation measures and the pot to it of 4.8 million. kr. I am also aware that there are municipalities that have had an application within quite a long time, and that have not yet received an answer. Now we're actually writing February, and at least it's been one month. My hope in bringing this into the main hall was first to find solutions so that Norwegian education can start at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for spring, and second to speed up the availability of the funds actually allocated. Can the Council of State at least at least consider the possibility that this can actually happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1938	The majority of the population has adopted a budget for 2003. I won't stand in this room and say we're going to reconsider or change this. So the budget ceiling for 2003 was an assessment of how we could best use the money. If we had more money related to integration measures, this wasn't the area I wanted to start first. We have many areas where there is a need to do this better. That is why I do not want to add that in the revised national budget we are going to reverse a decision that has thus received a majority in the budget we have negotiated with other parties. As regards the allocation of the funds for the activity grant entered, we shall ensure that it is paid out as soon as possible. It is probably possible that in the future we will have to look more at what day offer we will add up to. It may not be Norwegian training. It's possible that we're going to develop the bit that's going to give other types of activity plans, better in the future. We can come back to that, but I don't think the way Norwegian training has been organised, or giving such training to all asylum seekers who are coming, has been right.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1949	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister of Defence: ‘Coastal radar South is down’. – or rather, adopted. ‘The coastal cycle service in this part of the country is important, not only for the Defence but also for the Coast Guard, the Rescue Service, the Customs Service and in the context of environmental and border surveillance. Can the Government indicate whether the Government has alternative plans for this radar service?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1958	Coastal South was built in the 1960s according to completely different military needs from those of the Defence today. In addition, a significant share of the costs associated with the establishment of Kystradar South was covered by NATO. As shown by St.prp. No 55 for 2001-2002 the Government proposed that the coasts of the South be closed. It was because this coastal radar chain is approaching the end of its technical lifetime and had little operational value for the Defense today. This radar chain also did not provide complete coverage along the whole coast of South Norway. I would also point out that no civil authorities have used information directly from the Defence Coastal Radar Chain. Calculations show that modernisation and expansion of Kystradar South will require significant investment. NATO is not willing to contribute to the financing of such an upgrade and other projects are given far higher priority by the Defence Management. On the basis of an overall assessment, the Government therefore concluded that extension and modernisation of the radar chain could not be prioritised in relation to other and more critical conversion and modernisation programmes in the Defence. The store agreed to this on 19 June last year, through Innst. S. No 232 for 2001-2002 which endorsed the proposals of St.prp. No 55. Thus, the government does not have alternative plans for Kystradar South. However, the defence has a number of resources that contribute to valuable coastal surveillance. In addition to aircraft and ship resources, this includes, inter alia: electronic sensors, satellite images and the coastal monitoring system COSS, Coastal Operations and Surveillance System. In addition, the Government will implement several measures to ensure improved coastal surveillance. The development of automatic ship identification networks, AIS, in 2003–2004 facilitates the monitoring of AIS-compulsory ships along the coast. Furthermore, the Government wants to extend the territorial waters from 4 to 12 nautical miles, which allows us to exercise control of shipping in a larger geographical area. In addition, it is now under consideration to establish a joint civil-military imaging centre which will be able to receive information from both civil and military surveillance resources. Monitoring the Norwegian coast is a societal task which in that case will require economic and practical contributions from a number of civilians as well as military actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1975	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I have a lot of understanding that one will not pass on to worn-out technical equipment that may also be obsolete. In the answer, the Council of State refers to a number of modern and technologically advanced resources that can contribute differently to coastal surveillance. That's interesting. Because, in addition to the Ministry of Defence, there are several departments with their agencies that should have a high interest in a cover-up and efficient coastal surveillance. I mention, for example, environmental monitoring, border surveillance, rescue services, fisheries surveillance and customs duties. My supplementary question will then be: is it or will it be an initiative for the first to clarify all the needs and interests associated with the monitoring of our coast and, secondly, to clarify how available resources can be used as efficiently as possible and whether the resources available are adequate in relation to the total need?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1982	I am pleased that the questioner here is just bringing forward all the different departments that are affected and that are in need of coastal surveillance. There is a cross-ministerial project in progress in the Government relating to the possible establishment of a joint civil-military imaging centre. The Ministry of Defence is in dialogue with the departments concerned, in particular the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Fisheries, with a view to drawing up a draft note and mandate. The Ministry of Defence also assesses whether such a civil-military imaging centre, for example. may be added to the LDKN if the interest in a split layer between different departments would prove to be present.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1987	I thank you again for the answer, which gives cause for both security and optimism. Norway has a lot of coast and the coast means much to the nation. Coastal surveillance is therefore important. It has caused some concern that the South of the Coast would be liquidated, but I note that this does not mean a heavy surveillance of the coast, rather the opposite. I interpret the answer so that we can imagine a modernized coastal surveillance that takes care of the different needs that one has along the coast. So I thank you again for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e1994	Then I just feel the need to add that we already have something called KYBAL today. It is a task added to the LDKN, dealing with coastal preparedness and management in the event of an accident and acute pollution at sea. If we take from this work and the work undertaken to identify other departments that share a common interest in the defence to ensure safety on the coast, we have the opportunity to serve broad societal interests, and with the possible Image Building Centre providing greater security for what I believe the questioner is concerned about, namely to be able to secure us against both environmental crises and other crises along our long coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e2020	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time. We should have completed the questions that it was possible to ask today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-05.ana.ud2051e2033	There is no record.
