ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-09.ana.ud194e31	Honourable co-representatives! It was with great sorrow that this summer we received the message that Magne Aarøen, representative of Sogn and Fjordane, had gone away. He died in his home in Sandane night until June 27th, barely 59 years old. Magne Aarøen was born on April 28, 1944. After the front-hand schools, public high schools and state-real schools, he expands to become a teacher. Later, he expands on social sciences, social education, computer science and the media. From 1967 to 1987, from 1971 in the municipality of Selje, the archipelago had positions as a teacher and instructor. In 1985 he took a year’s break from the teaching profession and worked as a journalist in the Sunnmørspost. Later he and the family moved to the municipality of Gloppen, and from 1987 he was the principal of the Sandane School. Magne Aarøen was politically engaged from study time onwards, and worked for the Christian People's Party throughout his adult life. In Selje he represented the Christian People's Party in the local government, he was deputy chairman from 1979 to 1981 and spokesman from 1981 to 1983. Also in the Gloppen, the Aarøen was involved in local politics, as a member of the Presidency for two periods in the 1990s. Between 1987 and 1991, Aarøen was in the district of Sogn and Fjordane, where he also served as an alternate for a period of the 1970s. He also held a number of other public positions at municipal and county level, as well as positions in the Municipal Councils' Central Association and the Teachers' Team. In 2001, the Aarøen was elected to the Stortinget and took up the work of the Social Committee. He already knew about the Stortinge's work, after having been an alternate for two periods in the 1980s and 1990s. Before the Aarøen was a magnificent representative, he had been entrusted at all levels of the Christian People's Party. He was a young local team leader, county leader and central board member of the Youth of the Christian People's Party. In the mother party, Aarøen was the local team leader in several municipalities throughout her adult life. He was a second-leader and later a leader of the Christian People's Party in Sogn and Fjordane, and a member of the National Government of the Party from 1992 to 1996. The island was so a veteran in the Christian People's Party, and he left behind a rough political effort, even when the time was short. At Stortinget, the Aarøen was a social political spokesman for the Christian People's Party. Colleagues can tell that it was a task they fit and performed in a good way. Magne Aarøen wanted to make sure that the young people grew up safely, and he had a great political heart. As a politician he was thorough, as a person he was jovial and casual. He always had time to turn off a chat, and he was nice to watch each and every one of those he had around. We will remember Magne Aarøen as a warm champion of our districts and communities. He was a conscious representative of several of the political counter-cultures that have influenced our country: playful movement, target movement and withdrawal movement. The values of these countercultures were alive at the time in the Aar Island. He showed great wisdom in creating firm policies out of this political heritage. There were only a few weeks from Magne Aarøen to know that he had cancer until he passed away. It made a strong impression on many to see how he used the last weeks to make bold testimonies about his Christian faith, which gave meaning to life and security rather than death. Magne Aarøen showed great courage when he learned of the serious illness he had experienced. Those who worked with the Aar Island, sit back with the good memory of a social consciousness citizen and a bold Christian. Few were as alive in life as he was. We remember Magne Aarøen in deep respect and bring peace to his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-09.ana.ud194e72	When I was a young girl in the 1960s, I became acquainted with the singer Ruth Reese from the colored America. She presented us to the singers' tradition, and she became a symbol of the pride of the new, dawning multicultural Norway. But she was a rare bird. Much has happened since then. Norway has really become a multicultural country. We have had great immigration from the Third World. One fifth of the kids in Oslo schools now have a minority background. Although, Norway has always been a multicultural country. This shows that we have had a common culture, culture from Gypsies, taters and – not least – Swedes. Look at the Norwegian Folk Museum. They were assigned to build collections to legitimise Norway as a nation. The collections show that Norway has always taken up impulses from other countries. The content of Norway has always been and will always be in transformation. Not even selburosa is genuine Norwegian. Norwegian art and culture have always evolved in meeting the unknown, what is different. Those who want to protect the genuine Norwegian as something high-ranking, take the wrongs and legitimize a distinction between us and the others. There is no contradiction between mobilizing for diversity and being proud of their own culture. Mahatma Gandhi said it like this: I don't want my house to have walls on all sides, and that the windows should be dazzled. I want every country's culture to blow as free as possible around my house. And I refuse to let myself blow over the end. Cultural diversity has not, with few exceptions, been reflected in Norwegian cultural policy and at least not as a basic premise. Cultural policy and the art institutions have been largely linked to the national project with the construction of the nation-state. But now cultural understanding must become multicultural. In this way, the Government in its cultural message warns something new, because it determines that exactly that's necessary, and that's good. But it doesn't come off of itself; here there must be some courageous and obliging choices. The aim must now be to express multicultural diversity. Encouraging a more surprising, open and sought-after cultural understanding is one of the main challenges of cultural policy. It assumes that minority artists get their own expressions on their own premises – as artists and not as a multicultural alibi. Why do we have to do this? Firstly, because it is important from a freedom of expression point of view. Freedom of expression means having the opportunity to express oneself through art and culture, to create art and to convey it. Then it's a right to experience art and culture, also the one who meets the familiar in you, your own experiences. The minority population has the right to experience a culture that has roots in their own lives and experiences. This applies not only to Pakistani people who came to Norway in the 1970s, but also to the second generation, who may have their culture in common with Norwegian friends. That shows a lot of the new rap culture. And so it's not least for art, to challenge our established identity. Art is not something static, but evolves in meeting what is different. Picasso's paintings are proof of that. He found inspiration in African art. Then it is necessary for the development of an inclusive and tolerant society, for us to be a people looking beyond our own borders, so that the minority population should not be the poor, but that it should be visible to us that these are people with resources that can contribute to society, also because minority artists can be positive role models for others in the minority population, especially young people – for example. African Youth with its RISE Project, which today publishes a record, and which makes it visible to talent and creativity among African youth in Norway. The mosaics programme has made the need for commitment to cultural diversity visible. But it also shows that there's a lot left. There is no doubt that the Norwegian art arena and art institutions are seen as excluding both artists with ethnic minority backgrounds and audiences with minority backgrounds. So this is related. Then it's important to analyze why. First of all, and I am quite convinced of that: this is about power and power. It's about who has the power of definition, who has the power over the resources. It's about the power of definition over what's quality, what's professional, what's worth supporting. There is little doubt that quality is assessed on the basis of a Western art norm. Then it's also about the art field being marginalized. This is about artists who do not have a network, and in the competition for the few crowns they fall outside. Then it's also about invisibility. For example, Nordic Black Theatre, which is almost the only theatre scene that consistently presents minority art, is about not mentioned, and if it's mentioned, it's like something multicultural festive. That's why I think it's also about critics not having real competence – that's a huge challenge for the media. Then it's about little access to scholarships and other arrangements, also because the artists don't know about procedures and lack networks. Here we had a tool called Artist in Motion, which was started by minority artists sail, but which was laid down because of poor advice. So what does it have to do? My first challenge is that the Council of State declares 2005 as the year of cultural diversity. It would be a great chance to show that we are now using the 100th anniversary mark to build on multicultural Norway as a nation. So it's about giving power to the marginalized. I see many relationships and similarities between women's struggle and the job of cultural diversity. It is about wiping out the creation of quota arrangements – allowances into the power structures, into controllers that determine the way forward. It's about drying to label aspirin and scholarship schemes. That means earmarked funds for free groups. This means assigning tasks to curators, producers and directors with a minority background, because they will have the competence to bring in more quality votes and expressions. It's also about drying to earmark some of the funds for the cultural school bag for this field. Then you have to bet on education, and thus start with children and young people. This means that the Minister of Culture must have cooperation which also obliges the Minister of Education. It must be invested in the qualification of the arts schools, for example. a mentoring system whereby a majority artist cooperates with a minority artist, a system they have in England today. I also want to refer to the training scheme that the Musikkhögskole has, and the new free study there. To bet on education means to dry to label student places to the Theatre University School. It means to bet on the cultural schools. Then you have to get a cultural exchange on the artists' own premises, and make demands for another way to think about it from the U.D. In other words, the U.D. has to put away some of the brand-new nationalism that is going to promote the sale of Norway, and rather bet on networking. This means working together with the arts in the countries where minorities come from. Mela 2002 was such a project. The evaluation is very positive. Not only did Mela mobilise new audiences in 2002, namely the Pakistani population – it is important in itself – but the festival created an interaction situation where majority culture and minority culture were involved in a balanced and innovative dialogue. We have received a recommendation to move on to exchanges with other countries. Then you have to strengthen those institutions and organisations that have taken initiatives from below and that have proved to be entitled to life. A lot of them get money over the top. 320 item 74, and I think it is particularly important to strengthen the institutions and organisations that are run by minority artists. Then one must also demand responsibility from the big institutions. Here the Minister of Culture has a great job to do, to show that they have to take this seriously. And perhaps most of all, it's about securing a good framework for a cultural promise. This is a prerequisite for strengthening cultural diversity. Those were my challenges. Now I'm excited about what the Minister of Culture comes with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-09.ana.ud194e116	In St.meld. No 48 for 2002-2003, Culture policy towards 2014, it is established that a key objective of cultural policy will be to promote cultural diversity in the future. Until now, cultural policy in Norway has been closely linked to nation-building and a gender-oriented welfare policy. A central legitimisation of cultural policy has been the emergence of a distinctive national identity anchored in a common national culture. The Culture Communication explains how the different dimensions of globalisation, not least increasing immigration, have made it possible for the ideals of equality and national integration to be challenged today by new forms of diversity. Future cultural policy must turn the perspective away from the constructions of a single common culture and facilitate the development of culture based on the diversity that characterises the cultural situation today. Such a fundamental perspective in cultural policy is a necessary commitment to include artists with a minority background and their expressions in Norwegian cultural life. Since the 1980s, a number of measures have been taken in this way, and several smaller independent institutions have been emerging, anchored in different minority environments. Several of these measures receive financial support from the State budget, cap. 320 item 74, possibly in combination with project support from Norwegian cultural funds. In addition, several festivals have focused on anchoring in Asia, Africa and Latin America, and some state institutions have put particular emphasis on anchoring in these parts of the world. Among other things, the Riksconcerts have had the dissemination of music from non-Western cultures as a special field of activity since 1987 and have developed a great deal of expertise in this field. The effort has led to this music being known, accepted and equal. Yet, there is a long way to go before we can be content. Very few actors with a minority background are represented by the more established cultural institutions in Norway. The cultural diversity that today characterises Norwegian society is only reflected to a limited extent in the field of culture. To improve the situation, a four-year development programme for art and multicultural society, Mosaic, was launched in 1998, starting with St.meld. No 47 for 1996-97, Artists. With effect from 2002, mosaics were discontinued as proprietary programmes. At the same time, the aim of the programme – to promote cultural diversity in the field of art and culture – was incorporated as a field of activity in the ordinary areas of work and responsibility of the various selections of the Council of Culture. In parallel with the Mosaic programme, a three-year signal project was launched within the scene arts field, Open Scene, which was aimed at opening up the institutions for cultural deprivation. In St. prp. No 1 for 2001–02, the Ministry of Culture took the initiative to organise a conference on cultural shortcomings in the cultural sector. The goal of the conference was to involve different actors in the field and allow them to exchange ideas and views. The conference was held in Drammen in August 2002 as a collaboration between the Municipality of Drammen, the Municipality of Oslo, the Ministry of Culture and the Norwegian Council of Culture. On the basis of the conference, the Ministry of Culture and the Church set up a working group to discuss how to follow up the objective of promoting cultural diversity. The report from the group was handed over to the Ministry in early 2003. The general perspective of the report is reflected in the Culture Communication. This provides a starting point for the further development of strategies and more concrete actions that will be assessed in the budgetary context of the coming years. The proposals of the Working Group include both the Ministry of Culture and the Church, the Ministry of Education and Research, the agencies and institutions. Accordingly, the Ministry of Culture and the Church has sent the report to the relevant bodies so that the proposals for measures can be reviewed in the context of the preparation of future work plans and the corresponding budget. Both the Mosaic and Open Scene programmes were evaluated in 2002. The evaluations indicate that the projects have done their part to put cultural diversity on the agenda in a completely different way than before and to make artists with a minority background visible. But incorporation takes time, preferably longer than one had foreseen. There may be several reasons for that. An important factor may be that there is a high degree of large-scale society and the dominant Western understanding of art, quality and professionalism that presupposes interaction in the art world. In such a situation, there is a danger that artists with a minority background and their expressions will be excluded, or that artists will be forced to learn the Norwegian and Western codes and rules in a one-sided adaptation process. The experience in Norway is consistent with that of other countries. They show that there is a need for more long-term and parallel strategies to promote cultural diversity. On the one hand, measures and projects that create meeting places between the traditional Norwegian arts field and minority artists must be stimulated. This can be done partly through admission to artistic training, partly through insertion and involvement in institutions, experimental and collaborative projects, etc. Such a strategy will allow for mutual use and adaptation over time. On the other hand, there is a need to stimulate the ability of artists and non-Western artists to strengthen artistic professionalism and quality on their own premises. This can be done through specific educational activities, through the support of organisations, ensembles and individual artists who enable them, in the longer term, to meet their Norwegian and Western colleagues on different but equivalent terms. Norwegian and international experience suggests that such double strategies are necessary to enable the process of equivalent incorporation to take place. It will also be important to strengthen international cultural exchanges in order to promote cultural diversity. For artists in Norway who primarily work with traditions and expressions anchoring in other parts of the world, it is often decisive that they are able to cooperate with artists outside Norway. In order to stimulate the building of competences and networks, it is desirable to facilitate cooperation with the environment around the world. In the long term, this will help to incorporate cultural inequalities as a natural part of the Norwegian art heritage. This will not only affect artists and the production of art. This will also make the lack of expression and cultural provision richer for the public. It is an objective that high-quality art reaches new audiences, while at the same time that minority expressions need to be more widely accessible to the established sections of the art audience. In some other countries, recruitment of new audiences for different cultural events has been a key element in all strategies to strengthen cultural diversity. This can happen, among other things. in the form of different dissemination projects and the development of functional arenas for multicultural activities. It is particularly important to strengthen efforts towards children and young people, both in terms of dissemination and recruitment to the field of art. The ball may be our most important arena, both in terms of integration and cultural deprivation. The cultural school will therefore be an important tool for creating a more inclusive society and strengthening cultural diversity. Finally, I would like to stress that these signals are in the cultural message, and I hope that Storting's handling of the cultural message will highlight this, so that we can continue to work on the challenge that the representative has given me.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-09.ana.ud194e165	I thank you for the article from the Council of State. I will give her great praise, for I think she has a genuine understanding that this is important. So in many ways we have the same starting point. At the same time, I think it is important to show the initiatives that have come from below and that have been successful. But there's something I want to point out. Anne-Britt Gran and Odd Are Berkaak who evaluated the Mosaic Program and Open Scene, both talk about an institutional racism in Norwegian culture. They justify that artists of traditions other than Western or Norwegian are not accepted because of their background. Does the Council of State agree that there is also something structural here, and that this does not go beyond goodwill – in other words, that there is a need for courageous action? To be honest, I can't see that the grips are being taken, either in the cultural message or in the budget that was put forward now. Now I also heard the council open up so that the Storting had to take the grips, and that's good. We're gonna make sure of that. That is why I would again challenge the Council of State whether she does not believe that such courageous steps as quota and designation must be taken, and not just quotas for the Committee on Culture. Then I will challenge her whether she agrees that a courageous and important act will be to declare 2005 as the year of cultural diversity. If she agrees, what will that mean? Will she then give clear messages to everyone in cultural life, including Norway in 2005, about supporting projects that underpin cultural diversity? So I'd like her to elaborate a little bit more on education. There were some very good signals in her post about this by getting more commitments in education, both in terms of recruitment and entry, because exams mean so much to the entrance ticket to professional cultural life. What kind of advice will she give to the Minister of Education? Then to the cultural school. I am not satisfied with the message presented by the Minister of Education. I cannot see that it promotes multicultural meetings, nor does the cessation of parental payments support young people from a minority environment. Finally, I would like to have an assurance that she will strengthen projects like Mela in 2002, because it promotes public participation, because they can meet the best from their home country and their own roots, and because it gives something to the Norwegian audience as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-09.ana.ud194e182	To start with the last in relation to commitments for Mela 2002: I presented the cultural budget yesterday. It's for handling in Stortinget. When it comes to instructing the Council of Culture on what to spend money for, this government doesn't have the habit of doing it, and we don't intend to do it in this case either. But I would like to stress that the cultural message actually contains these perspectives in the report that the representative mentioned. The general perspectives are incorporated in the Culture Communication. When it comes to the discussion about ear marking and quota, there's an interesting discussion. So here's the different angles. What I'm busy with is the result. Earmarking and quotaing can also be stigmatisation, and we don't want that. But if we can get this out another way, without earmarks and quotas, that's the best thing. If that doesn't work, I'm willing to evaluate it as a tool as well. I think it's nice that the representative gave the cultural message a boost to the content of cultural diversity and globalisation, because the words of honour when it comes to the message of culture have not come from this room before. So I thank you for that, and I am happy to accept that. I thought the comments for the cultural message from this room have been quite grey, but Kultur-Noreg has taken up the message with open arms. They have also seen the grips we have taken on globalisation. It has been important for me to stress. There are new things about this cultural message compared to before. The Stortinget must now grasp it, and then together we can develop a good cultural policy, so that we can see the important input to Norwegian culture that cultural diversity gives us. There is nothing we should be in competition with – that is something we should work with. And then we're going to have to discuss in the future what kind of tool we're going to use. I don't want to be so hard on you as to say that there are things that are asking for the embodiment of institutional racism. I think those are strong words. I'm absolutely sure that in dialogue with the different institutions, they're also busy getting space for the cultural diversity. I think it's a dialogue with the institutions that's the best way to go to get a good result. Otherwise, I would like to give the representative credit for her travelling a cultural policy interpellation. There haven't been too many plays from the Storting's side when it comes to cultural policy at all. I understand that the representative has heartened more in the cultural than in the controlling. I appreciate that, and I'm looking forward to the posts that come from the other parties – and we're going to get on with the challenge that Ågot Valle has given us all.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-09.ana.ud194e195	The working party is concerned that Norway should be a multicultural society. Art and culture play a crucial role in the work of acceptance and tolerance. Culture policy shall, in the view of the Workers' Party, target these values and find the necessary means to achieve this in practice. The debate on refugees, asylum seekers and immigration focuses little on the positive effects of Norway becoming a diverse society in many areas. If we are to succeed in integrating, we must have an active cultural policy in this area. An example of good and important work that is taking place today is, for example: The «Du Great World» network. This is a network of organisers, organisations, institutions, artist groups and resource people from cultural and organisational life who work and contribute to the further development of international art – cultural cooperation in Norway and internationally. One of the measures I have noticed is that in 2005, they will focus on the transformations our culture is undergoing as a result of immigration into Norway, and look at the meeting between artists with different backgrounds and audiences, a very good action. In this debate, the interpellant has challenged the Council of State to declare 2005 as a multicultural year. In this connection, I allow myself to remember a group that has been seriously wronged and abused. It is important to take care of the culture and history of the Romani people. The Labour Party government proposed to set up a tattoo museum at the Glomdals Museum in Elverum as a small uprising in relation to all the injustice that society has inflicted on the Romani people, or the travellers, as they are also called. The museum was due to be completed in 2005. Now it is with amazement and disappointment that I record that the Minister of Culture does not think it is so important to give priority to this matter, and has pushed the whole project out in time – despite, among other things, this. The Prime Minister, from the Christian People's Party, has apologized to the travellers for the suffering that Norwegian society has caused them. The Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administration is about to begin examining the communication of culture. This Communication discusses these issues somewhat, but not enough. It will therefore be our challenge to provide concrete tools for how this work is to be done in practice. We are therefore pleased with this interpellation, supporting the idea and intentions behind it and looking forward to dealing with the topic more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-09.ana.ud194e208	This is a timely and good interpellation, pointing to important circumstances. This is not primarily a question of immigrants from the Third World. This might as well be a question of our own ability to meet the world around us. As you can see, the theme of cultural communication is very important and exciting. I think of this as a piece that goes into the big picture of how Norwegian cultural life and we as a nation are going to open up and make use of the impulses that the world around us can give us, whether they are from our close links or are far from geographic. Because this is in our own interest. It's in our own interest as a cultural nation to make sure that we use the impulses that revitalize our culture. I think both the interpellant and the state council have pointed to many interesting approaches and ways of approaching this. I have noticed the interpellant's desire for courageous grip, where she goes into the allocations and denominations. I'm not sure, among other things. Because the group we're talking about is a long way from homogeneous group. It's a very complex group, which also has contradictions in it, and I think we're going to approach this on a broad basis by feeling a little bit forward. Perhaps it is important to point out the measures that make contact directly with the grassroots where we live. Today it's like maybe some of the longest trips we can make, the journeys are across the hall, to get knowledge of those who live there, or in the apartment or house next door. We don't know much about them, necessarily. I know that many around the municipalities have problems communicating with local communities, i.e. that immigrant communities in the municipalities are often isolated and poorly communicate with so-called Norwegian environments. That's where I think we have a job to do. I think the municipalities have a job to do. We are now working, among others. with the so-called introduction packages to be provided. There it would be interesting to know if this could be something that could be brought in. What knowledge do we have of our new neighbors? How can municipalities make use of those who come to move? Oslo Municipality has some interesting examples that I think it'll be useful to get hold of. Otherwise, I agree that measures of the type «Great World» are well suited to creating direct contact between people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-09.ana.ud194e221	I want to start by saying that this is a very interesting debate, and a very important debate – perhaps the most important one we have right now in the context of art and culture – on how we can integrate artists and cultural workers with ethnic minority backgrounds into ordinary or ordinary cultural life. We have to recognize that there are few places where there are more opportunities to achieve human fellowship, bridge construction and coherence than just where many from different ethnic groups are present, and where we can meet and both practice and experience art and culture. So I think it's commendable and constructive by the representative Ågot Valle to travel such an interpellation. Both the interpellant and the Council of State have pointed to reasons why artists with ethnic minority backgrounds are excluded from the Norwegian art scene, and they have also pointed to possible measures that can be easily agreed to. And I think we can agree that we need to take a force even in the time to come, to put these groups' artists and artistic expressions on the agenda. I also think it is very important that this is followed further up, that it does not stop by the many fine measures that have been, and that we may also be able to afford money, but that we think a little bit about what is the very mechanism of cultural life, and that makes such exclusion take place. When the Council of State calls for a perspective triangle, it sounds very right. I think it has to happen in many ways, because this is most about the fact that minority artists are also seen. Now the interpellant is also talking about power and repulsion, and I think it's also very much about it. I think we are underestimating the exclusion mechanisms that apply, both in general and cultural life, in a market with many freelancers and many free groups of artists. Then it's clear that there's going to be fights about the different jobs. There will be great competition to get out of it, and there, of course, the minority artists have a great aftertaste, a huge addition that they have to take in again. That's why I think it's interesting that the interpellant is asking for brave grips, and I want to go very far in saying I agree that we should strongly consider, for example. allowances. We've gone a long way in quotaing to include the gender perspective in the world of work, for example, and why shouldn't we consider this? So I think this is affordable, and I would like to see that we had more time. I hope we'll have time to take this into account in the cultural message and the cultural school bag, which gives us a very good opportunity to address these issues as well, and where we can make sure that we can do something about it. Then I just want to say that if we really manage to include the ethnic minority artists in a better way, I think we too can look forward to not only greater diversity but also greater wealth – greater wealth for everyone, for art and cultural life, for our country and for us as individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-09.ana.ud194e232	I agree with those who have said that there is an interesting debate, but I also want to point out that it is a demanding and challenging debate. The centre party is in favour of action to increase the lack of cultural expression. Cultural diversity is a good thing in itself. By allowing several artists with a non-Western background to implement and present their projects, we are simultaneously opening up more understanding across ethnic differences. People with a minority background are currently a large and inseparable group in this country. This has so little to do with art and culture. Opening up and encouraging a larger section of non-Western artistic expression is both a good cultural policy and, not least, a good integration policy. The fact that artists with a minority background are struggling with penetration may have several reasons. Lack of skills among the art intermediaries and those responsible for the distribution of grant and project support can be an explanation. But there may also be an expression that there is a need for more professionalization of the artists themselves. In the view of the Centre Party, educational institutions have a certain responsibility here. But more important than instructing the institutions is to support the recordings, activities and projects that come from the artists themselves. Although many of the challenges are common to artists with a minority background, it is also important to note that not all are alike. The challenges are e.g. different for image artists, musicians and authors. In the museum, art and stage arts field, there are organisations and workshops that work to ensure minority artists and get operating resources from the state budget. It is important to ensure these activities viable operations in the future. On the other hand, the field of art does not have such an organisation. Here, minority artists must be assured the possibility of participating in the field by other means, e.g. by allowing more than one person to receive a job grant. The aim of the Centre Party is to allow minority artists to express themselves on their own premises, and their activities become a natural part of the art and cultural life. Until such time as targeted action against minority artists is necessary. The centre party will therefore stress that it is important to keep up the promises we have aimed at increasing cultural diversity. I note that the Minister of Culture takes the multicultural issue seriously, and I look forward to further discussions during the treatment of the cultural message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-09.ana.ud194e249	Thank you for the debate. I thank people for stressing the importance of this. I agree with Eli Sollied Överaas that this is not only an important debate, but also a demanding and challenging debate. I've registered who's in the hall, and who's not in the hall. I agree that the challenges are different. In music and dance, you've come further than in visual arts and theatre, so there's a different grip here. Then I'm very glad that Ola T. borrowed the emphasis that you should not underestimate the expansion mechanisms. It's incredibly important that we come with us. Olemic Thommessen too seems to me to have made very valuable contributions, stressing that this isn't just about minority artists, but it's about Norwegian society and Norwegian art life. That's why I think it would be so incredibly important if we got to a 2005 that really took the multicultural seriously. To the Olemic Thommessen I would like to say that when we are engaged in quota and designation, it is because the Council of State has received very clear advice from those who have worked within various working groups, that it has to. I think it would have been an important and pointed grip if the introduction programs had had their light on this field as well. I therefore hope that the representative will take this with him to the Minister for Integration. I agree with the Labour Party, which stresses the importance of getting to the Glomdal Museum. It's also taking the multicultural issue seriously. So I said I've registered who's not here in the hall. I would like to take this opportunity to warn against developments as we see in Denmark, where cultural life is marginalised, being exposed to market censorship – a censorship that excludes the others. Mobilising for a prosperous cultural policy with a great diversity will therefore be one of the most important tasks to address also the 2005 elections. It is extremely important for the Christian People's Party to choose sides – in this very important value mobilization. I want to end with a little poem by Olav H. Hauge. It's like this: “One word – one stone a cold river.One more stone – I listen to several stones. It's a good example of an artist who found inspiration in other cultures and turned it into his own, but who also shows that this is about a laborious work that needs dialogue between minority cultural life and the majority cultural life, and that we have a great responsibility to keep this dialogue up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-09.ana.ud194e283	I must say that the conclusion of a quotation from Hardanger dictator Olav H. Hauge is something that warms my heart. I also think it has been a very nice debate. Actually, I didn't have to speak, but I forgot to comment on this with 2005 as the year of cultural diversity. I don't want to give a yes today, but I don't want to give a no. I want to take this with me and evaluate it. It is an initiative that is absolutely worth considering. I also want to point out that we have some cultural agreements with different countries. We have Film from the South, like. focuses on films from China this year. So there's a part of the field that supports the wishes that we all have in relation to more cultural diversity. I have a little comment on the comment about the Tater Museum and the Romania Department at the Glomdal Museum. There is something that has shifted in relation to cultural buildings. Ellen Horn and the Stoltenberg government chose to suspend the construction of the Hålogaland theatre. That's what we've chosen to do. We've had to postpone this department plus a museum in Finnmark, because I've got some criticism that I've spent too much money building new things instead of spending money on culture. The Tatar Museum and the Romanesque Department at the Glomdal Museum are coming, but we've had to use it for a couple of years because we're getting some peaks now in relation to other cultural buildings. It's coming, and there's no indication that it's going to get worse. There is also no indication that we look down on the Roma people – it is important for me to stress. But it was imperative because this top and Hålogaland theater came in a different order than it was supposed to, because Ellen Horn and the Stoltenberg government chose to postpone it. They had the opportunity to start that project. Now we start it, and then we have to do the other thing in turn. It comes, and that part of our own people is also important to take care of and not signal that there is something we devalue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-09.ana.ud194e295	The interpellant debate is closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-09.ana.ud194e306	There is no record.
