ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e80	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 15 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e89	Representative Øystein Hedstrom points to Document No. The 8 proposal that, when Norway is a small country, Norwegian and Norwegian controlled companies are bought by or merged with larger international groups and that due to private capital shortage, Norwegian ownership of large companies with a significant impact on growth and development in Norway cannot be guaranteed. Furthermore, it is shown that Norwegian enterprises are usually part of a domestic market, but they are also part of a Nordic and a European market. The proposer points to the change and restructuring that has taken place in the Norwegian power industry and that Statekraft, as the second largest player in the Norwegian market, is very small in Nordic and European terms. The proposer believes that Norway must be able to develop into what he characterises as the ‘energy storm in Europe’, in the light of the natural resources we have within energy. Today's Competition Act sets limits for State power to continue buying-in if other activities are not sold. The proposer of my Statkraft must be able to build up to become a major Nordic or European player in the energy industry, and think that competition laws must therefore be changed, so that Norwegian companies are able to build up as Norwegian controlled operators in these markets. The pluralities of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, are magnified by the proposal of the representative Hedstrøm. I'm assuming that the minority will present their vision. The debate about Oslo Municipality's planned hall by Hafslund-axar has updated the issue of national ownership in the energy sector. The majority agree that regulating State power is initially only in the Norwegian market being too narrow, and believes that State power must have greater olbokerom to grow in the Norwegian market. In order for this to be a reality, today's competition law must be amended. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection therefore supported the proposal for a legislative amendment and also indicated that the amendment should enter into force immediately. The consequence of the amendment will be that the Competition Authority will not intervene if there is a functioning Nordic or European market. It is therefore surprising that I read the Financial Paper of 6 June 2003. Reiterating that all the interviews are quoted correctly, I would say that this seems to be a non-case for the department and the Competition Authority. State Council Anser Gabrielsen states according to the newspaper that any amendment to the laws must be dealt with by the competition authorities. According to the same newspaper, the head of the Competition Authority, Kleven, states that it is the State Council Victor D. Norman, not the Stortinget, who is to instruct the Competition Authority. I expect that when the Storing makes a decision the decision will be followed up. After voting today, the competition law has changed, and the Competition Authority's task is to act in line with what is agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e115	I am pleased that there is a majority here today that gives a clear signal that we want a strong and robust State force, and that we are no longer going to let the competition authorities steer the energy and power policy, as we have seen examples of. I must also agree with the rapporteur on the particular behaviour of the Government and government parties in this matter. I believe that the government here is doing an extensive sweeping of State power by not responding to the letter – and six months have passed – on the issue of increased capital injection, and, secondly, that, according to Today's Business, the Prime Minister, Victor D. Norman, according to Today's Business, is doing what he can with the help of a law firm here in Oslo, as I understand, to train what a majority in the Storting will actually do. I have also heard from representatives of the government parties that this decision will lead to higher electricity prices. I think that is completely wrong, because we do not have a Norwegian power market, we have a Nordic, and we soon have a northern European power market. I would also say that if I had belonged to this government, I would have gone very quietly in the doors to talk about increased power prices, when one has done so little to do something about what is the main problem, namely to make sure that we get more power. The government, as the rapporteur pointed out, must take on board the fact that there is a majority here in the Stortinget that does not actually want Norway to become a branch country in the energy sector as well. We must try to keep what we can in Norwegian hands, and then Statkraft must be allowed to grow. We thought from the Workers' Party it was completely wrong when the Government had the Competition Authority decide that in order for Statkraft to buy up in Agder Energie, they had to get rid of Hedmark Energie, Trondheim Energieverk and E-CO in Oslo. It's going to be wrong as long as we have a Nordic and a Nordic power market, and not a Norwegian, like the Government and the competition authorities later like we have. The whole development in the power sector is about eating or being eaten. It is therefore important that State power grow, become more robust and more competitive in relation to power companies in other countries. Of course, when the Workers' Party supports what we are doing here, it is because we believe it is essential that we manage to keep as much as possible in Norwegian hands. This applies to Hafslund. It also means that the processes that are in progress in relation to Hedmark Energie, Trondheim Energieverk and ECO, should now be reversed, because the Competition Act will be amended during the evening, and because through it we can prevent parts of these ports on foreign hands, which would probably have been the case, at least for parts of Hedmark Energie. Because we know that there is a significant risk that there is not so much Norwegian capital available in the power sector to buy these holdings. In my view, the government's orders are primarily an expression that the government wants to weaken State power, wants to weaken public ownership in the power sector. It is not surprising, when we know that the Government believes that the state should own as little as possible – but it is not an active owner. With the decision that Odelstinget will take place later this evening, the Government should reverse that decision. I think it's a clear obvious fact that when a majority in the Great Britain has spoken, we have to count on, and expect, that the Government will actually follow it up, and not continue the vigor of State power that we have so far seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e134	That Document No. The 8th proposal from Øystein Hedstrøm and the Progress Party get a majority is a very bad news. It's bad news for consumers, it's bad news for Norwegian business, and it's bad news for Stortinget. The only thing you can enjoy with this proposal is that it is so poorly designed and so little thought that it can end up not having the effect that the Advance Party had intended. The proposal presupposes the proper functioning of the Nordic power market. But we know that it's not much of a year, because of bottlenecks in the transmission. When the Progress Party will then allow Statkraft to grow to become a dominant player, consumers may start preparing for higher power prices, not least for electricity customers in the areas hit by bottlenecks, such as: parts of the South. I find it hard to imagine that this power-socialism and higher prices on the part of the Progress Party will be particularly festive to defend the party's representatives from the Agder states to the winter. The proposal is also sad news for business. Of course, business is also consumers of electricity, and the Progress Party will provide more expensive electricity to business and poorer framework conditions. What is worse for Norwegian business, however, is that foreign investors will of course find out what a majority view in the Stortinget unfortunately has on foreign investment and foreign business in Norway. And they will probably also notice how the Stortinge scalds and chooses with the legislation and with the framework conditions for business to ensure short-term political gain. The result is that foreign investors will experience the threshold for investing in Norwegian businesses and jobs in Norway as even higher. Although this proposal deals only with State power, it is a general amendment of the law that a majority will make here today. And that will apply to all market areas – not just for electricity. In addition, the legal text states: ‘activators in the Norwegian market’. It might as well be foreign property. What if Vattenfall buys up in Norway? Is the provision also applicable to them? Let me end by saying that I think it is bad news for Stortinget and Norwegian policy that this proposal has a majority. 'By law, land shall be built, and not destroyed,' it says in our old writings. I therefore find it sad that a majority in the Grand Duchy chooses to ignore the fact that there is already a NOU on new competition law, and that the Government has announced that it will promote a proposition for a completely new competition law over the summer. I find it sad that the majority of the Storting chooses to break its own investigation instruction, and that the opposition once again adopts a change in law right above the table, without investigating the consequences for consumers, for families and business, and without the proposal having been out for public consultation in the society to which the law is to build. I find it sad that the Workers' Party is once again involved in such a delicate treatment of Norwegian law, but finds some comfort in the fact that this is probably due to the fact that the Workers' Party's lack of seriousness means that they have obviously given up the idea of government power for a long, long time in the future. For this, the Workers' Party would never have been on if they had government power or been close to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e153	The President understands this to include a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e156	I would like to address the proposal contained in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e161	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the proposal she has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e164	First a few comments to the representative Sjøli, who belongs to the so-called "nutritional right". The sitting government, with the Right, is soon the only Western government that has not realized that, in addition to good general framework conditions, one must have an active industrial policy. And the more the government continues this way, the more correct it will be to describe it as a business enemy and the party Right as a business enemy party. We increasingly feel that Norwegian companies are slowing down in relation to companies in competing countries. Even in sectors where Norway has a natural advantage, necessary development opportunities are lacking. Such an area is the power sector with the great potential for hydroelectric power in particular in the form of renewable energy to provide us. One of the challenges is to meet the current situation. Today, we have more than a hundred units in this industry mainly with public owners, how many estimate sales. Foreign actors are on the road, while few Norwegians are involved in the buying-in competition because of low profitability and lack of capital. In this serious and important situation for the energy sector, the debate is dominated by the size of Statkraft in relation to the market, while we come to the defensive nationally. The Progress Party wants the energy industry to continue to be one of the solid foundations of Norwegian business that can bring prosperity to future generations of nords, as has been the case for today's nords. In order for us to have the opportunity to develop our own future by providing opportunities for a significant Norwegian energy industry feature, it is absolutely necessary that we have some large companies that can measure up to large Nordic and European companies. In the case of competition in the same market, it is wrong that Norwegian companies should be subject to restrictions that their competitors in the same market do not have, and when, in addition, the home authorities of their competitors often pursue an active industrial policy, while we have a government that only wants to sit on the fence, it goes without saying that we can easily lose out in this competition. The changes we have proposed in competition law and received by a majority mean that competition authorities will continue to monitor competition in the Norwegian market, but a larger geographical area will have to be taken into account when assessing market conditions. That is why we have proposed this amendment. The legislative change will be a step towards achieving the objective of realising the potential of Norway in the energy sector in the international market. Both the Competition Authority, the Consumer Council and the powerful industry have been sceptical about the proposal, with some different reasons. But they agree that without better power grids there will be more expensive power. I would like to stress that the condition of the proposal is that there should be effective competition in the Nordic context. Furthermore, of course, it is an objective to minimise bottlenecks by developing a more cost-effective power grid. What is famous is that the practice of competition law and the curious bottleneck debate has grown entirely out of proportion to the actual challenges in the power sector. I'll get into this a little bit more detail. The disagreement between Statkraft and the Competition Authority in matters involving Agder Energie and Trondheim Energiverk did not affect the frequency of bottlenecks between Norway and the rest of the world. The disagreement consisted in the view of how the Nordic market operates in periods of bottlenecks. The existence of these bottlenecks does not in itself mean that the market is not functioning, but only that fundamental supply and demand conditions should be considered. It has been demonstrated that in nearly three quarters of the time of bottlenecks, consumption in Norway was so low that other Nordic producers and imports could easily have met demand in Norway, without any contribution from State power production. The other bottleneck situations were also not characterised by particular scarcity. Competition surveillance has constantly been on the verge of the fact that all bottlenecks are almost equivalent to the failure of the market. Oversight has tried, through a theoretical calculation, to demonstrate that this is problematic for competition. However, the problem with this example is that a combination of market shares for State power and foreign price differences, which could lead to a weakening of competition, is very rare in practice. The statistics show that this has happened in only 1 per million of the time. So this kind of light reasoning has become crucial for our competition policy in the power sector, and it happens without taking into account what it means for the total Norwegian value creation that we actually have actors that can claim in international energy trade. While other European countries are committed to developing competitive national energy companies, the size of State power dominates the debate here at home. For information, Statkraft has an energy production of about one sixth of French EDF, one third of German RWE and E.ON, one third of Italian Enel and Swedish Vattenfall and a little less than Finnish Fortum. It is also worth noting that all these companies have a much larger share of production capacity within their own national borders. As far as I have gained experience, State power otherwise filled its role to the point and point under the turbulent market conditions of winter. The company had much higher magazine filling at the entrance to the drying period than most other Norwegian producers had, which enabled very high production in winter, when the market and the nation actually needed it. Without Statkraft's well-filled warehouses and high production in winter, there would have been significantly higher prices. The company has acted responsibly and has used its manufacturing apparatus in a manner that serves the interests of both the market, the owners and the consumers. Otherwise, there is a great deal going on in the power trade also east and south of Svinesund. The pan-European trade in power is growing by approx. 6 pst. every year. Market-based power trading and new power exchanges are under development everywhere. In the North alone, this trade represents 3 000 TWh per. years. Around 300 actors from 12 different countries are on the Nordic power exchange about a total “turnover” of more than DKK 400 billion. Last year, this was a larger turnover in North Pool than in Oslo Stock Exchange. Nord Pool has full insight, considerable competence and an excellent market surveillance device. This apparatus will ensure that Statekraft, Vattenfall, Sydkraft, Fortum or other actors will be inexorably exposed by improper behaviour or by attempting to manipulate the power market. In Norway, the size of State power has been in focus, and not the potential we have as a nation to realise the potential of the energy sector in an international market. In this debate we have to ask ourselves whether Norway is served with a fragmented national energy supply, where competences and resources are lubricated thinly across a number of smaller companies in a increasingly internationally integrated and competitive energy market. We should address today's industrial logic for the power sector, where the industrial policy aspects drown in subtle, academic exercises around real and imagined bottlenecks in the Norwegian network, and where periods of marginal differences in area prices are given disproportionate attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e198	It's a special matter we have to deal with today. Rarely have I seen a similar procedure for a bill in my life. The lack of pre-processing for this setting is almost screaming. I also believe that there will be doubts as to whether the case can be said to have been subject to legal evaluation in the ministry, as usual practice when it comes to private legislative proposals from the representatives. On the basis of this, I would also like to say that if such a case had come from the Government, we would have to send it back. It is incomprehensible that serious parties will be involved in such an urgent procedure on such an important matter, especially when we know that there is a proposition around the corner to the Competition Bill. There is good reason to call this amendment ‘lex Hafslund’. It could have been called lex Hedstrøm, but let go. The majority of the Committee also argues this in its comments in its opinion: ‘The majority of the Committee... indicates that the debate on ensuring national ownership of power generation has been updated through the planned sale by the Municipality of Oslo of its shares in the energy company Hafslund. The recent debate shows that there is strong political will to ensure national ownership of power generation.’ I do not want to call this private bill an attempt at panic legislation, but I believe it is obsolete. I think the proposer describes the need for good competition law in the background discussion of the bill: ‘Where a large dominant operator has control over large parts of the market, this also usually means that this operator can take out a greater share of returns than can be done in a market where there is fierce competition between the operators.’ It is according to this intention that today's competition law works. This is also why the Competition Authority has ordered Statkraft to sell out of two power production companies after they bought into Agder Energie. State power controls today, with acquired shares in other companies, 40 p.m. of Norwegian power generation. Do the proposers really believe, in the light of their own argument, that Statkraft should grow? And if the purpose of this amendment is to prevent Hafslund from getting on Finnish hands, why would you make a law that obviously favors Statkraft? We know, for example. that there are other national stakeholders within the picture as purchasers of the power generation part of Hafslund. I think it would be clarifying if the majority of the committee decided on the purpose of the amendment is a strengthening of State power or whether it is national ownership for the purpose. The Christian People's Party is interested in the greatest possible degree of national control over power generation, but we don't see it as a major point that State power is going to be so much bigger than it is today. It is alarming that the proposers propose a change in competition law that would restrict competition, which in turn would affect Norwegian consumers through the risk of increased electricity prices. There is no guarantee that Norwegian ownership in the power sector leads to lower electricity prices. This is a major misunderstanding, and it must be based on a lack of understanding of how the power market works. The legislative proposal itself is also so self-contradictory that it is likely to have no impact on how the Competition Authority will look at Statkraft and its dominant market position in some areas. We don't have a well-functioning market today that allows us to view the Nordics as one market. As the representative Sjöli also mentioned, during periods of time, there are bottlenecks in the network that restrict both production and placing on the market. This allows us to sometimes experience that some actors, such as Statkraft, become too dominant in the market and will have the opportunity to act as a monopolist. This will affect customers, who get an excessive price. It cannot be the intention of the majority. The best means of promoting competition is to cooperate with the other Nordic countries to reduce these bottlenecks. Until we have done so, it is wrong, in the Christian People's Party's opinion, to adopt such a change in law that will affect customers. We are committed to ensuring the highest possible national ownership in the power sector. This is not ensured by this legislative amendment, which is almost passed over the table, but by broad political cooperation to create framework conditions that make the Norwegian power sector interesting to Norwegian investors. We like to be involved in such a process.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e226	I'm going to be relatively short. The proposal for an addition to the competition law that Odelstinget has been dealing with today is so sympathetic that it would be fun if it hadn't been serious. Firstly, the legal work itself is mildly deficient. If this Appendix to the law is adopted, then all of a sudden in the middle of the law terms and concepts will be used, such as: ‘dominant’ position and ‘well-functioning’ market, which is not defined, which does not rest in the law and which is in an unclear relationship with the other concepts of the law. This will make legal interpretation and application difficult. Secondly, the bill is so ambiguous and so contradictory that if it is read alone, it must be characterized as meaningless. As it has been formulated, the proposal states that the Competition Authority should not intervene against a anti-competitive purchase if the purchase is not anti-competitive and therefore does not have harmful effects on Norwegian consumers. But if that is the case, the Competition Authority does not have the authority to intervene today either. At best, the bill is therefore an unnecessary addition to today's law, which I made aware of in my letter on the matter. Whether the proposal itself is ambiguous – and that is my third and most important point – is to reflect the premises, as expressed in the majority comments of the Committee, quite unambiguously. They imply that Norwegian power customers are to be eliminated in favour of increased market power for State power, and at the same time they imply that State power is to be pre-treated in relation to other Norwegian and foreign power producers. In plain text, this means that the number of committees will have the State to use its legislative powers to give its own company benefits at the expense of other companies and consumers. This is clearly contrary to all good principles of cleanliness in the manner in which the public is to act. It is also likely to be contrary to the rules on discrimination laid down in the EEA Agreement and concerns may also be raised about the relationship with the State aid rules of the EEA Agreement. I hope for the longest time that Odelstinget will not adopt a bill that is so poorly distributed, so ambiguous, and as dubious about the premises as the case is here. Should the proposal nevertheless become legal, it is the duty of the Government and Competition Authority to interpret the law in line with its wording, the processor and the international legal obligations of Norway. I assume, of course, that it would not be Odelstinget's intention for the Norwegian authorities to act contrary to the EEA Agreement. As I see it, this means that the law must be understood by its wording, whereas, in view of the provisions of the EEA Agreement, it is necessary to disregard the leadership of the majority of the Committee as regards the conduct of the Competition Authority in relation to State power.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e244	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e247	I think it's quite perceptive that the Council of State Norman doesn't yet seem to have taken inward what a majority in the United Kingdom actually wants, thinks and is going to adopt this evening. In fact, I expect the Council of State to ensure that this decision is put to work, according to Odelsting's will. I don't think there should be any doubt about that. So I want to say to the arguments both from the Council of State Norman and from Sonja Irene Sjøli about this with the scare propaganda in relation to high power prices, that it's a theoretical approach if we had a Norwegian market. But we don't. We have a Nordic and soon a Northern European market. It is also the case that the occasional bottlenecks must be resolved in any case. The question is whether we want to have a State power that can compete, and whether we want to keep as much as possible in Norwegian hands. My question is simply: can we now be sure that the Council of State actually ensures that what Odelstinget decides tonight is followed up and put to life?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e256	Based on the line taken by the representative Brustad, it could almost be tempted to believe that she believed that competition law should be abolished, because competition obviously has no impact on prices. It could also seem that according to the representative Brustad’s questions, she felt that the Competition Authority should be closed, since the representative Brustad obviously has better knowledge of market delimitation and market analysis than it has in the Competition Authority. I'll take it for information. On the specific issue, the Government will, of course, ensure that laws adopted are implemented in line with the content of the law, the processing and the international legal obligations assumed by Norway. This means – unless the Storting decides that we should break the EEA Agreement – that we must also take into account the constraints that lie there, in line with what I said in my main post.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e263	The Council of State has prepared well for this debate, so I had basically expected a longer and more fiery speech. He has used his own resources in the department in the letter of reply to the committee. He has now also received an urgent investigation, I read about today's business life, in order to be extra well prepared, and I feel that perhaps some of the purpose is to break down this proposal and thereby undermine the intention of the majority of the population, namely that Norwegian industrial and business policies should be competitive in the future. I want to grasp something in the letter. The answer from the Council of State states that the legal paragraph – that is, the one we are dealing with – would have no meaning in relation to the acquisition of Trondheim Energieverk and Agder Energie by Statkraft. Does that mean that the Council of State, like the representative Brustad said, will not change the practice in line with the intention of the majority of the Grand Duchy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e270	As I said in my main post: As I assess it, the obligations we have under the EEA Agreement mean that we have to ignore the leaders in the Committee’s majority comments regarding the conduct of the Competition Authority in relation to State power. Of course, we need to ensure that the law is implemented. The law says, as I interpret it, that the Competition Authority should not intervene against mergers and acquisitions if the Competition Authority would not have intervened before this paragraph came. And I'm going to make sure that the Competition Authority continues to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e275	Any legal text must be interpreted. The Council of State says that this legal text can be interpreted in different ways. His interpretation is that it does not change the practices of the Competition Authority. But, he says, if a reader reads the preprocessor, that's Document No. The 8 proposal and the position of the committee which is the basis for the amendment of the law must be interpreted in such a way that it needs to be amended. So the council says he chooses to ignore that pre-work. That, I have to say, is an eye-catching statement from a government council. Of course, it should be the pre-worked, the underlying position, the meaning of the Stortinget with this amendment, that underpins the interpretation in the future. The Council of States then refers to the EEA. The EEA is not a supranational system amending Norwegian laws. We incorporate EEA legislation into Norwegian law. It is Norwegian law, what Stortinget has meant by Norwegian law, which underlies interpretation and practice, and I want the Council of State to confirm that it is also being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e284	As I said in my main post, I assume that it is not Odelsting's intention that the Government and the government should break the EEA Agreement. Of course, if it were to be such that the representative Geske or the Labour Party or others in the Storting would want us to break the EEA Agreement, and make it clear through a majority decision in the appropriate forums in the Stortinget, it is clear that the Government will bend for it. But as long as it is not the intention of the Stortingen to break the EEA Agreement, we must interpret the laws within the framework of the international legal obligations assumed by Norway, and the international legal obligations mean that we cannot give priority to a single company. And that means that the leaders in the committee comments cannot be taken as a basis for interpretation and application of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e289	Some brief questions to the Council of State: Is it correct that the Council of State has hired the law firm Wiersholm, Mellbye & Bech to make an investigation? If the answer is yes, how much did that investigation cost? And why wasn't the Justice Department's law department, normally used, used for this? Another question: When was ESA excluded from the competence to ensure compliance with the provisions of the EEA Agreement? I thought it was ESA that had that mission, and that a Norwegian State Council adheres to Norwegian law and respects the clear – let's say – leaders who come from the legislator, in terms of how a law should be understood. Here's a document number. Eight proposals with text, here it is a vote, where the text of the majority is, of course, crucial, and it is from this pulpit that interventions by the majority actually give the guidelines to be followed by the Council of State. Will he follow these?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e298	The police are not responsible for my compliance with Norwegian law when I walk in the street or drive in the traffic; I am responsible for it. The police are responsible for intervening if I do not follow the rules. Similarly, it is Norway's responsibility to comply with the international legal obligations that we have, but we have bodies responsible for action if we do not. It does not relieve Norway of the obligation to comply on its own initiative and on its own initiative with the international legal obligations we have assumed. Then a difficult question arose in connection with this bill. That was in particular the relationship with the EEA Agreement. I normally used the agency to assess the question of how the processing of this bill was in relation to the EEA Agreement. Their conclusion was crystal clear: this was contrary to the EEA Agreement. In order to be on the safe side before I was going to give some insight into the Stortinget, I thought it was also right to obtain an independent assessment from the professional environments in Norway that are actually also outside the public sector. There are some skills in Norway in business, as more in the United Kingdom have said. That is why I obtained a statement from an independent law firm that represents the highest competition competence outside the state of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e305	The Council of State said in its original statement that he hoped that Odelstinget would not adopt this law, with the preparatory work in place. I guess Odelstingen is going to adopt this law with the preprocessors that exist. That means that the council has not got what he wanted – Odelstinget gets what we want. Then, of course, it's the pre-worker who's on the ground. We can then disagree on whether this is contrary to the EEA Agreement. Governments are talking about discrimination. We're not talking about this just going to apply to Norwegian companies. This will apply to all companies operating in Norway. If it were Vattenfall that had a similar position in Norway and operated in a functioning Nordic market, the same law would apply. Of course, this must mean, among other things: the case of Trondheim Energieverk and Statkraft must be re-examined in the light of the new legal provision and the existing preparatory work. Then we'll see if there's anyone complaining about the matter for ESA, if there's a change there. Odelstinget believes that there is no basis for this. The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the SV, which are behind this proposal, constitute a majority in this Chamber, and that is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e312	I have to remind the representative that the Committee's comments state that this «has changed the behaviour of the Competition Authority in relation to purchases made by the State». There is no reference to other companies. It is a clear discrimination that we cannot follow. But, of course, we need to ensure that the law is implemented, given the preprocessors that exist, and given the international legal obligations that exist. We're going to do that, of course, something else would be very strange. Even bad laws are our responsibility to implement them. But we have to implement them within the framework of law enforcement in general, including the international commitments we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e318	The chord shift has been completed. Trond Giske is given the floor to an obvious misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e323	Just cards to an obvious misunderstanding. When the Council of State refers to what it says about State power, it is an example of a matter. Of course, this would also apply in similar cases for other companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e331	There's nothing about an example. It is only about Statkraft, and it is explicitly stated that the Competition Authority should change its behaviour with regard to Statkraft, not with regard to Statkraft or other companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e336	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e339	Once again a little bit about processing. It seems like the council doesn't follow all the rules that everyone else in this house has always done. When assessing the processor for a law, it is the bill and the text there – that is in this case Document No. The 8th proposal. Secondly, it's the setting, and then it's always the setting behind the bill, not the views of the minority that are opposed to the bill. The legislator is the ones who vote in favour of the proposal – that is the majority position in this case. The next in the preparatory work is contributions to the noodles and lay-offs from the spokespersons who support the bill, it is not from those who disagree with the bill. When it is clarified that the Council of State is wrong to read the setting, where Statkraft is mentioned as an example, and that this is an example, then the Council of State should take this into account. This bill does not only apply to the energy market. It is a general legislative proposal that applies to all industries, all companies, where the market is – the Council of State tried to fool the word – functioning well. Most Norwegians understand what is working well. Of course, in individual cases the relevant authorities, which are not the Council of State or the Ministry, but which are initially the Competition Authority, and later, after the current system, the Department, and, where appropriate, a court, of course, which can be used. If there is disagreement between companies in an industry, where they believe that there is access to buy-in, because it is a well-functioning Nordic market, even if they are given a dominant position in Norway – as long as it is open to start-ups and open to competition and, therefore, it is a well-functioning Nordic market – then it will be the courts that decide this at the end. I think it is remarkable that the minority criticises the proceedings – urgency and such things – rather than the content. When there is a functioning Nordic market in an industry, is it really the opinion of the minority that it should nevertheless prevent a Norwegian company from getting a size that allows it to participate in this Nordic market? Is it true that, on the part of the minority, it is entirely right that Norway should become a branch country, that we should pretend that globalisation is not happening, that we should not adapt to the world of reality, but that Norway is about the only country in the world? I'm amazed at the minority's argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e355	Nearly a year ago, at the Nordic Council of Ministers, I took up with the Nordic Cooperation Ministers what thoughts they had made about Fortum, Vattenfall and Statkraft, and opportunities to, for example, create a Nordic giant in the energy sector as a counterbalance to the other structural adjustment on the European market. I got no answer. It was by no means so surprising, but nevertheless. In contrast to the representatives of the government parties, the Swedish and Finnish politicians have a conscious attitude towards their energy companies. They see it as a necessity to have large actors. Statseide and state-dominated Vattenfall owns large parts of the Swedish power market, but one cannot claim that because the Swedish state owns Vattenfall, the energy price is too high in Sweden and to the detriment of consumers. While in Norway, therefore, it is alarmed that if State power is given the opportunity to assert itself better in Nordic and European competition, it is to the detriment of consumers. It is mildly misleading to say to consumers that if we get a smaller State power, the electricity price goes down. If you want to follow that reasoning, you can say that because Statoil is big in Norway – small in the world as a company, but large in Norway – the oil price is high, and the petrol price is high, and if we did Statoil less, the oil price would go down and the gas price would go down. These are reasonings that are not related. Everyone knows that a high electricity price is due to a huge accident from Stortinget over several years, that we haven't built up enough energy, that we have too little energy produced, and that we use too much. It is not acceptable to blame for the fact that it is because Statkraft is large in Norway that we have bottlenecks in the power supply. The bottlenecks must be removed regardless of who owns the production companies. It should be clear to anyone. For me and for many others in this room, and fortunately also for the majority, this is now neither about price nor bottlenecks. This is simply about the fact that a majority of us want to take State interests seriously and ensure that in Norway, the energy nation of Norway, we can also have a large energy company, which can assert itself in Nordic and European competition. That's just what it's all about, whether we're going to have a big energy company that we're going to be proud to further develop, or whether we're going to do what the government wants to do, make it smaller and smaller and eventually insignificant.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e366	I want to correct an obvious misunderstanding. No one will claim that we have bottlenecks in the Nordic power market because State Power is big. On the other hand, the Competition Authority says that there are limits to the size of a company in the Norwegian market as long as we have bottlenecks. There is no one who believes that it is wrong for a company to become large in itself. In many ways, it may be very good for companies to grow up, but it's not good if they grow up in a separate market, with the result that we get an approximate monopoly. I'm very surprised, I, that so many in the hall seem to express that monopolies are not harmful. I am not so sure that Norwegian consumers share that view. But I take the information that many here in the hall seem to see it as perfectly okay that consumers are award-winning companies that have significant market power. In that case, I am pleased that we still have competition law, so that that view is not what I as a consumer should be subject to. Another thing I would like to point out is: The representative Hagen said that everyone knows what a well-functioning market is. Yes, of course you know that in normal language. But the usual requirements for a legal text are that you are a little more precise and a little clearer in your use of words. It is the lack of preparatory work for this law that makes this matter in addition to the intention, and in addition to the strange wording in general, this matter is inconsequential.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e375	When I hear the Council of State, I have to say that the only thing that is missing about his argument is the formal cabinet question. I get a troubling impression that the Council of State actually says to Odelstinget that this – excuse the expression, but that's what I put in what the Council of State says in total – this batch of legislation that Odelstinget will probably make later today, it won't matter. I get the impression that the Council of State is almost sending a message to the Competition Authority not to change practices and not take this seriously. It must mean that the Council of State, after the proceedings of the Lamentations and after the sanctions have taken place and the bill has become legal, does not intend to follow it. He's actually trying to give the impression that he's going to sabotage the law decision. It'll be quite alarming to the legislator on the part of a government council. I would therefore like the Council of State to clarify its own position by clarifying that he acts – as any Council of State has a duty to do – to ensure that a law decision is put into effect, and that at least the Council of State does not do anything to prevent the relevant Norwegian authorities from complying with the law. I understand that the Council of State disagrees. I accept that. It happens many times. But it doesn't happen many times that a state council sort of sabotage law decisions, like he now gives the impression, because that's, as I've said – I could ask if the council agrees with it – Document No. The text of the eight-proposal, that is the position of the majority, and that is what the majority of the speakers have said from this interlocutors, who are the pre-workers. Is that understood by the Council of State? And will he also base these statements on his own attitude to the law when it is passed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e384	First, I have to repeat what must be an obvious misunderstanding, the state council Norman has said several times now, both in other contexts and from this pulpit today, that we have a Norwegian power market. No, we don't. We have a Nordic power market, and we're about to have a northern European power market. This is changing all the time, and that is why the majority believe that there is a mistake in the interpretation that the Competition Authority and the Government have made in relation to refusing State power to grow. It is as the representative Hagen said very clearly, very surprising that the Council of State does not yet seem to have taken inward what the majority in this Chamber wants. I think it must be quite clear where we want to go and what we want, and then we must expect the Council of State to follow the will of Odelsting and also pass it on to the Competition Authority. In it too, because this is not only about Statkraft and Hafslund, but also about the companies that the Competition Authority and the Government ordered Statkraft to sell out, Hedmark Energie, Trondheim Energie and E-Co, that these processes can now be reversed with this change, because they are also in danger of getting on foreign hands. That's what this case is about. I expect, like Mr Hagen, that we can now get a clear signal that the Council of State will follow this up and not continue with explanations that do not belong in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e393	As a spokesman for the matter, I must say that I am surprised that I have followed parts of this debate. I thought it was common practice that state councils, as they were in government, followed the setting from Stortinget and Odelstinget, at the same time as they listened to the articles that came from the majority in the hall. What is in the position of the majority when it comes to today's competition law is: ‘The aim has been to ensure national ownership of such companies. However, State power is now required by the Competition Authority to sell itself because the company has become too dominant in the Norwegian market.» And then the document says quite specifically that we need to change the law so that the laws are adapted to situations where there is a well-functioning Nordic or European market. The Council of State is in its full right to believe that the legal formulation itself may be unclear, but as I have understood the contributions from the majority in the Chamber, there is no doubt about what the majority wants. I have to ask the Council of State: are not the Council of State and the Department willing to follow the views of the majority in Odelstinget in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e407	First, I would like to remind the representative Brustad that the Competition Authority believes that we do not have a fully integrated, well-functioning Nordic market all the time, and that has been crucial for the Competition Authority's position in matters. So to the question if I ask cabinet questions. No, of course I don't! I have stated that I think this is a stupid and stupid bill. But at the same time, I have said – let me just repeat it quite explicitly – that the proposal should be legal, it is the duty of the Government and Competition Authority to interpret the law in line with its wording, the processor and the international legal obligations of Norway. Of course we will. We have also made the Storting aware of our assessment of what some of the international legal obligations impose limitations. And then I've said that if the Storting wants us to break these, the Storing is going to tell us to do that, and then of course we're going to do it too. But then Stortinget must ask us to break the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e417	The President would point out that speaking of Odelsting's will is hardly in line with good parliamentary practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e420	I've been in this big business for a few years, and we've been dealing with some ownership messages. As far as I remember, there were two or three pieces in the 1990s, and then we had one last year. In most of these notifications, governments and wholesalers conclude that we need to invest in areas where Norway has natural advantages, for example. the energy sector, biomarine sector and other sectors where possible. But like this debate, I get the impression that the government now feels the pressure from the growth of State power, and that this market is not working because of bottlenecks and other problems, which is the opposite of what most other Western countries are doing in the energy sector and in other sectors. I was very surprised by the day when I saw that the competition director was out in the media and suggested that we split State power up into smaller units, that is, that Norway should go in a completely opposite direction to what other Western countries are doing. My question to the Council of State will therefore be: Is this a view shared by the Department, that we should fragment the professional State power to become a small part of the European context?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e429	The Council of State has now had a number of possibilities to confirm – say yes or no – whether he will follow Odelsting’s will and decision in this matter. And I ask again: will the Council of State base what is the will of the majority, which is reflected in the majority comments in this position, in the document submitted and in the proposal for amendments to the law? The Council of State can now answer yes or no to this question. Will he follow the will of the Great?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e436	Of course I will follow the will of the Storting. Adopt this as a law – although I have stated that I am not enthusiastic about it, to say it this way – I will, as I have said several times, of course make sure that it is put out in life and complied with. But what I've clarified is that Storting's will involves more things. It includes the legal text, it covers what is set out in the Committee's comments, but it also includes the fact that there is a large majority in this process for us to comply with the EEA Agreement. Until I am informed of the opposite, the Government, the Competition Authority and I interpret the law in line with all these things. And then I've expressed what it means in terms of interpretation. This is not about the question of will or unwillingness to carry out the wishes of the Storting, and the views expressed in the Storting, but it is about us complying with all the wishes and views expressed by the Storting. That is why I have said that until the Storting possibly says that we are going to break the EEA Agreement here, I cannot go in to break the EEA Agreement in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e443	There are some things in this debate I would like to comment on. The representative Hedstrøm had an article related to a negative mention of the Right Business Policy. It must be the representative Hedstrøm free to have it, but at the same time I would like to stress that both the representative Hagen and the representative Hedstrøm stated that we are living in a globalised world. Yeah, we're so absolute. This means that Norway, as an investment country, is important, in this way that we need to facilitate that investors from other countries will be interested in coming to our country and investing here. To achieve this, there must be predictability in our framework. When it comes to the process in this particular case, I think it is important to underline this very part. The fact that, as usual, we have not had consultation processes for business interests and what may be, so that they can return their views, so that we have the necessary processes and predictability to do before we do such things as here, I have to say that I think is unfortunate. You should have a process on this, for the simple reason that you would have created predictability, you would have gotten normal processes in place, and we would be pretty sure that what we're doing is right. For that very reason, I would like to stress that what we are talking about here is predictability for other nations and other investors who want to come to Norway. They must be sure that Norwegian framework conditions are predictable and durable over time and that ‘normal’ processes underlie something as essential as competition law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e452	Carl I. Hagen has spoken twice in this debate and is now given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e455	As the Council of State has not understood what we have said, let me be perfectly clear. It is not our view at least that the current legislative proposal that we expect will be legal is contrary to Norway's international obligations in the EEA Agreement. We have a different assessment than the Council of State, which he has not documented to Stortinget. We believe that this law will not in any way be contrary to the EEA Agreement, and we expect the Council of State to base the majority of legislators on its behaviour in the future. I would also like to have a confirmation there. But as he challenges Stortinget, we believe this is not contrary to the EEA Agreement. It is this bill that is to be used as a basis for the further work of the Council of State, nothing else.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e464	Sylvia Brustad has also spoken twice in this debate and is now given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e467	I still hear a councillor saying, "Yes, but... I just want to join what Hagen said. Nor is it our opinion that this is contrary to the EEA Agreement, and therefore we assume that the Council of State, as we have now said innumerable times, follows up the will of the Storting and Odelsting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e474	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 984]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e490	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the party groups and five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e501	It was unbelievably exciting to follow the debate that preceded this, because the two issues affect very many of the same points. I'll come back to that in my post. Today, we are going to deal with changes in the Gambling and Lottery Act, a law that, with the changes proposed, imposes exclusive rights on ATMs in Norway, which provides the ten major humanitarian organisations with a secure income in the future. There'll also be more research on gambling addiction, to mention something. I wish I had felt a little more confident, as the rapporteur, that the matter we are going to deal with here had been sufficiently informed, and that we had had a better procedure, which I could have stood within and called proper. But unfortunately, that is not the case. First, I would like to provide a little information on the dates of this urgency in the committee. Because this is an urgent matter, there can hardly be any doubt about it. I ask myself, why? The imposition of the exclusive right, as stated in the proposal, shall not be fully implemented before 2006. Nevertheless, Norwegian Typing is well started with the planning and implementation. The exclusive right is to be phased in gradually from 2004, but all those with a concession today who have to renew this concession in 2004 can hardly expect to be renewed. Why else would Norwegian Typing be already buying vending machines? When we also know that the project department in Hamar is already at about 20 men, and that before we have even adopted the amendment, it must be allowed to ask the question: why is it urgent? But so, on March 18th, the government put the matter before the Stortinget. On 3 April, the matter was decided by a unanimous – and, President, I beg the President to take note of the unanimous – committee adopted for the autumn. Then there was no meeting of the Committee before 29 April, when a new progress plan was adopted, against the votes of the Progress Party, where the case was decided on 5 June. But it has to be added that, in the meantime, the Council of State had driven an active lobbyism and called members of the Committee to get the matter dealt with in the spring session. In addition, I became ill, and was sick for two weeks, which once again made me promote a postponement proposal, but once again it was only the Progress Party that supported the postponement. We had planned a visit to Sweden and Denmark to look at different forms of ownership solutions in vending machines. In Sweden monopoly has been introduced, and in Denmark a shared solution has been introduced. The trip was cancelled due to a lack of time. This is no small matter. It's about an industry of approx. NOK 15 billion in turnover. It's about introducing a monopoly and taking away an entire industry's right to life with a pen stroke. And maybe not least, it's about our reputation internationally. We heard the debate here earlier, where Councillor Victor Norman said something about the importance of getting foreign investors to Norway. Yes, but how in the name of heaven are we going to get investors, as we so much need, to a country without predictable framework conditions, where neither investment nor jobs seem to mean anything to any world? We're talking about completing 900 jobs, which in itself is a scandal, at least when we know how unemployment is happening in the country. In addition, a user survey from SIRUS should have been submitted, saying something about gambling and gambling addiction in Norway. But the committee didn't even have time to wait until it came on June 10. So what we got was just a preliminary conclusion, which made us aware of some of the things that are used as tools to put into action actions, among other things. to combat gambling addiction. It has been so difficult to be the case rapporteur in this case that I have in fact judged several times seriously to throw in the towel. Whenever I stand here as a case rapporteur today, it is because I think it is in place that the Stortinget is familiar with the way this matter has been dealt with. It should not be difficult to understand that, in my opinion as rapporteur of the case, this has resulted in this case not having been given the time it needed. I know that the train has left now, but let me nevertheless point out a few things: in the course of the examination in the committee, new elements have emerged that either directly or indirectly have given the Committee indications that this matter had to be dealt with more thoroughly. There are strategic notes from Norwegian Typing that show that they'd been planning to double the number of players from 500,000 to one million. Real bidding rounds have not been held, despite the fact that this is a matter of buying equipment close to NOK 1 billion. ESA has announced that they will look into the matter as soon as the decision is taken. And despite the fact that the same department, the same government and the same government that is now proposing an exclusive right for Norwegian Typing, has ordered the industry to replace its machines, the industry has not been promised full compensation for the expenses they have had in connection with the replacement. The voluntary teams and organisations know little about what the future will bring, with the exception of perhaps of the ten major humanitarian organisations, who through this operation receive a safe and secure income. But I think I can say that in my entire political career I have never received more enquiries on one matter than in this one. I was going to take the rack with me with all the documents, but I expect that I would be stopped before I came to the door. I can't show you how much it really is, but I can tell you. More than 2000 voluntary teams and organisations have sent me e-mails and letters! Many others, hundreds, have called me and asked for help – and then I take care of it. The reason is the uncertainty and doubt about the consequences of the changes that are currently being made to the Lottery Act. Then to the facts of the matter. The Progress Party agrees that gambling addiction is not of the good. That is why we want better and more research in this area. But adapting an entire society to the weakest link is going to be pretty unsustainable. If you were to put on that template for other things in society, we would have to adapt quite a lot. We wanted, among other things: had to buy our beer on the pole, etc. Of course, we want to monitor compliance with the 18-year limit already introduced. We do not want minors to develop gambling addiction either through vending machines, odds or other games. But here is the difference between the Progress Party and the other parties on the Stortinget: the Progress Party is convinced that the industry had managed to implement the necessary measures through regulations and through the exercise of the necessary supervision by the Lottery Authority. The introduction of exclusive rights for one state-owned company in 2003 may seem an old-fashioned way of solving challenges. But this fits nicely into the range of other prohibitions and regulations that come from this government. This gives very unfortunate signals to foreign investors who want to invest in Norway. They do not know when or whether the Government can also find a pretext for introducing monopolies for other industries. But what worries us the most is the thousands of voluntary teams and organizations that get their income base torn away – day centres in the direction of local teams that no longer know whether they can operate, and sports that no longer know whether they can pay a coach or whether they need to return to unpaid idealism. I'm not done, so I'm asking for a three-minute drawing. I am addressing the proposals on which the Progress Party is on its own, and the proposal on which we are co-sponsored. Otherwise we'll vote against the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e537	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e542	It is clear to whom the rapporteur, Mr Woldseth, is concerned, namely those who run the industry and the thousands of organisations. What is the background for our suggestions in the setting are just the game dependants. That's where the focus should be. And it surprises me quite a bit that the case rapporteur, having been involved in this matter, read a lot of documents and went through this setting, manages to spend ten minutes on the speaker without focusing on the gambling addicts at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e549	Then the representative Lund Bergo has not heard so well. The representative knows just as well as I do that we are actually involved in a proposal for an increase, from 0.5 to 1 pst, to research into gambling addiction. Besides, we're worried about the game addicts. There are 50,000 people who are or have been addicted to gambling in Norway. Since I think it was so much as missing from other things, I preferred to focus first on the procedure. But, of course, the gambling addicts are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e556	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e559	Over several hundred years, gambling on money has been prohibited by Norwegian law, but it has nevertheless been opened up to limited permits to provide funds for social purposes. In 2001, the North played for 22 billion dollars. The growth in gambling activity has been particularly high for the so-called slot machines. In 2001, it was about the same. 19 000 vending machines set up around the whole of Norway. The stand has been at the mall, cafes, bus stops and all the possible public places where there are many people, yes, where we all travel. The vending machines combine sound, image and premium payment, which allows many to be drawn towards the vending machines to try happiness. Many children and young people are industrious users of the vending machines, and experience shows that it is difficult to meet the age limit for gambling on these vending machines. I will now give the Government and State Council Reply City Haugland praise for having promoted this proposition. The main reason for the proposal by the government is to clean up an automated market that is soon uncontrollable and to combat gambling dependence and prevent crime. Gambling can cause problems, yes tragedies, for many people – not just for the individual affected, but for the whole family. I think first of all about the children. One I talked to here during the day, it said this way: I take money to buy food for the weekend, but when I come to the grocery store, there are some flashing devils crying out to me, and I am being deliberately dragged to the machine and playing away everything I have with me. That's how I've lost my family, my house and my job. Help me – at least remove the vending machines from my grocery store! Odelstingen is doing something about this today. Having said that, I would like to point out that it is necessary to strike a balance between accountability and safe control and funding for good purposes. The working party is concerned that the maximum amount of gambling revenue should go for good and not in the pocket of private operators. The size has adopted changes to the key. From 2006 the distribution of revenue from slot machines will be allocated 45,5 pst. for sport and 36,5 pst. for cultural purposes. Social and humanitarian objectives will receive the remaining 18 p.m., allocated to 10 national humanitarian organisations and to teams and associations to compensate for the loss of income from slot machines. When Norwegian Typing now takes responsibility for the machines, for example: It's worth 314 million. kr from the automatic surplus. This money is intended for activities for children and young people at local level. And this money comes in addition to money from the key. This means that now the funds go for good purposes for the benefit of the community and not to private actors. Even more children and young people now have the opportunity to engage in sports and cultural activities. The Labour Party believes that the growing number of slot machines has come out of control in recent years. I am pleased that Norwegian Typing is now in control, and will be able to connect all the machines in a network so that you can get full control of the cash flow. When it comes to removing 9000 machines, effective checks must be carried out when the installation permits cease to exist. This is very important in order to avoid the use of old vending machines on the illegal market. This places great responsibility on the Lottery Authority. I am sure that Norsk Typing will do the new task very well. People need different tensions, and the Workers' Party is positive about the measures proposed and believes this is a step in the right direction to overcome the problems that gambling causes. I am pleased that a majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Advance Party, has expressed the following: ‘ The majority consider Norway to have good experience with Norsk Tipping AS as a game operator and that Norsk Tipping AS will be able to manage the vending machines in a transparent manner.’ Then it is left to wish Norwegian Typing good luck with the task.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e588	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e591	It was striking, and I don't understand it, but the Labour Party, which has stood on this pulpit and criticized the Government for the liquidation of jobs, was not near to mention this at all. The working party now enters with open eyes to complete and shut down 900 jobs. It is stated in the notes, in the light of what appeared in the hearing, that Norsk Tipping should consider taking care of 41 jobs at Fensen. Then, with all due respect, I have to ask the representative from the Workers' Party: does she think it is possible to instruct an AS? Does the Workers' Party really believe that the jobs at the Payers are saved, and what about the least 850 others?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e597	I am truly very pleased that the representatives of the Progress Party are engaged in jobs. And I have to say that if the Progress Party representative had engaged in jobs in general, otherwise in budgetary terms, I would have been very happy for that. It is said that these workplaces have been hit by the fact that the growth in the number of vending machines has come out of control. We are concerned about jobs and not least district jobs. That is precisely why we also have a comment on the Payers, but – that is absolutely right – we cannot instruct an enterprise in detail on how to control it. I thought the Progress Party was very much in agreement with me. As far as workplaces are concerned, we have to secure these, but we have to make a balance, because the background of the entire proposition is the fear that there will be even more gambling addicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e604	I heard the representative from the Workers' Party now say that the automatic market is completely out of control. I guess that's not quite right, because you have to get a concession to get a machine, so the automatic market is hardly out of control. So to another thing: the representative knows how much sport gets from the vending machines today, since she comes with this number of approx. 315 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Does she know how much they get today? When you reduce – not by 7 000 but by 9 000 vending machines – are the figures that the representative came up with, after the reduction, or are they from today's market?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e611	It is well possible that I am not a pedagogue, at least no philologist. But when I say that the deal has gone completely wrong when it comes to controlling this, it is in recognition that so many slot machines have emerged – in fact, they get a concession, but it has been easy to get a concession. What we know is that there are increasing numbers of gambling addicts, and we also know that there are many private players who put the money in their own box. Isn't it really great if we now get a system that makes this work for common good? I actually thought the representative Woldseth was interested in that. She was among those who, together with the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, were involved in changing the key, which is also a contribution to the community, not least to encourage children and young people to even better leisure activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e618	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e621	First, I would like to say that I deeply disagree that this matter has not been dealt with thoroughly enough. The case has been dealt with normally on the basis of a sound investigation in which all relevant facts have been submitted to the Stortinget. All lots, except the Advance Party, agree that the decision-making basis is sound and sound and is reassuring. A postponement of the case now would have been a signal that we are not taking the challenges of gambling seriously, because this would lead to the explosive development in the area being able to continue without proper control. A postponement would have been serious in view of the fact that the measures we are now proposing could not be implemented with full effect until 2006. In this legislative amendment, the Government addresses an important and serious problem that has developed in our country. The legislative amendment is motivated by a strongly felt need to gain control of the slot machines. This market has shown a negative trend over the last few years. Terrifying reports on the dramatic increase in gambling dependence and the widespread use of slot machines among children and young people have shown that it is now necessary to put in place intensification measures. The main measure proposed by the Government is to grant Norwegian Typing AS exclusive rights to operate slot machines. Now it is that the right traditional is little dependent on monopolistic formations. However, the consideration of control, not only of the games as such, but also of market developments, suggests that this is an acceptable solution in this specific context. The slot machine market is brought through the exclusive right into a company in which the State has full control. The State Council at all times will be able to follow developments in an easy way and intervene if developments show that this is necessary. Right does not depend on a ban line in the case of games. We live in an open world where games are well established, both in other countries and here at home. The prohibitions are likely to lead to illegal activity, not least the gambling area is particularly vulnerable to this. Internationalisation and new games based on the Internet open up the world to game entrepreneurs. In the light of these developments, it is considered right that controllable Norwegian operators should not do so in order to dampen the pressure from the outside. The legislative proposal, and in particular the issue of the introduction of exclusive rights, has caused some strong reactions from many teams. Games are big money, they are jobs, not least, they are important financial contributions to the entire voluntary sector and to humanitarian organisations. The proposed conversions naturally lead to uncertainty among many of these. As the proposal now stands, the Right considers that the Government has found an acceptable balance point between the conflicting considerations that apply here. Even with the significant intensifications proposed, there will also be large amounts in the future for distribution between those who have so far had gambling revenues. The inclusion of these grants in the future as a proportion of the key also means a more robust basis for revenue. Let's make it clear that the Right has a lot of understanding that this conversion that is now being introduced leads to uncertainty. To this end, the right supports the comments of the majority in which an evaluation is made after five years. We want to know more about how the economy has put itself under the new premises, and thus have a better basis for making an overall assessment of this. It is gratifying that the Government has gained broad support for the main points of its arrangement. All lots, except the Advance Party, will end if the government has chosen to take control of the game market. I do not conceal that this has been a difficult matter in which important considerations were to be weighed, but I believe the Government and the Committee majority have found a solution that ensures an acceptable balance point between the different considerations. I want to give the Council of State credit for having had the courage – and the power to act – to address this challenge, and I want to be happy with the implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e649	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e652	There are so many claims flying in the air here that I could imagine knowing where the representative Sonja Sjøli has ‘an explosive development’ in gambling addiction from. But I also have another question. The representative of the Right is a member of a party which has traditionally had little faith in public activities and monopolies. With the exception of the Progress Party, hardly any batch has marked itself as a stronger supporter of market-based solutions to societal challenges. At the latest in an article in April this year, State Council Per-Christian Foss argues on the Right's website for market excellence. He takes a settlement with the belief that government solutions should be better than private ones. How, then, can Right be in favour of a state monopoly of a privately run market?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e659	It seems strange to me that the studies that have been carried out in relation to gambling addiction, and the income that has emerged, have not reached the representative Woldseth. She has been the case rapporteur and has had as much access to this information as any of us in the committee. I can just refer to NOVA, SIRUS, etc., and not least to the sum it's about. I read in the proposition that young people under the age of 18 play for more than 170 million. kr per. years. It is right, as the representative Woldseth points out, that right-wing traditional is not a monopolistic – I was also in the middle of my post – but not only the control of the games, but also the development of the gaming market makes it an acceptable solution in this particular context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e666	The study conducted by SIRUS, as representative Sjøli, inter alia: In fact, there has been only a preliminary conclusion, saying that there are about 50,000 gambling addicts, and that development has not been as explosive as it was thought. But I have to ask the representative from the Right about another thing. In a bingo comment, the majority say that you think the bingo is a social hit and an entertainment place. Nevertheless, they say that ‘Norwegian Typing AS takes over the layout of vending machines if more revenue than would normally be in the ordinary position goes to the local associations for which the bingo plays for income’. What about the bingo halls that have normal income? And what does the majority actually mean by this remark?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e673	We mean what it says. We believe that bingo in many ways is an important social meeting place, and that experience from other countries suggests that bingo games will also develop in the future and be a social meeting for entertainment for many. Of course, we accept that. For voluntary organisations, there is also significant income potential in addition to the vending machines. We accept that Norwegian Typing will take over the layout of the vending machines if a large part of the revenue goes to local associations for which the bingo plays for income. This proportion should be such that bingo overall generates revenue at the 2001 level. We understand that a code in line with this could lead to more vending machines than the 10 000 government has provided. However, we believe that we are now seeing a trend that requires the modernisation of the conditions of traditional bingo activities and that there will be greater flexibility in relation to side games.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e680	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e684	A little over a year ago, we had a debate here in the Chamber on gambling and addiction based on an SV proposal. The debate at the time showed that there was no majority on the Storting to make major changes to the gaming market, given that there was then an overall review of games and lotteries. We chose to wait and join in. What we've been given is not, in my view, an overall review of games and lotteries – which could have been desirable, but it can come later – but a good review of what they have to do with the so-called slot machines, or perhaps a more correct name would be the ‘loss machines’, because that's what they are for those who play on them. What's happened in the last year is that there's been a big change in opinion. The focus in newspapers and the media has shown us what gambling addiction and problems in this regard, especially with machines, lead to personal tragedies. That is why I am now very satisfied with the setting that is available. Unlike all the suggestions we had in the Storting last year, this time a majority gathers in the hall. In this context, I would like to congratulate the Right, who is involved in a solution with a State monopoly. One doesn't even have to be SVs to realize that it costs. But the very fact that the Right has gained insight and taken inward the studies and the knowledge we have gained in the last year that leads to such a conclusion, makes me wish there were others who also had the ability to absorb information in the same way. We in SV want to go further on some points, and I will come back to that later. I want to commend the State Council's response to Haugland for doing a good job. Governments have shown that she takes seriously the problem of gambling addiction, and that the solutions that have been chosen, in our opinion, show both great creativity and good insight. To bring the problems to life, there are some things that are absolutely necessary. Firstly, control of the market. Here is the solution with Norwegian Typing and state monopoly quite correctly. As research continues and we get new and better insights, it will also make it much easier to make new changes faster. We'll get fewer vending machines. In fact, we would go a little further, but it is clear that halving the number of machines in Norway is a proper grip. Getting the vending machines away from shops and shopping malls and where young people and people travel the most is a completely correct and proper grip. It is in line with SV's line to introduce an 18-year working limit. We have the 18th year limit, but it hasn't worked. Now it's about getting it effective, and it's very good. What has also happened, which is not at present, is the creation of a contact phone for those who struggle with games. That's great, and quite in line with previous suggestions from us. It is important to ensure that this is followed up with treatment options. I'm sure that's going to happen. We have behind us two major studies, from NOVA and SIRUS, which show how extensive this problem is. Especially when it comes to youth, I think it's scary. It shows that between 11,000 and 20,000 young people in Norway under the age of 19 are struggling with gambling addiction. 6000 of these can be linked to different types of crime. Whether it's gambling that leads to crime, or crime that tempts them into gambling, it's chicken and egg, but at least it's connected. A total of 3,000 of these young people have considered suicide to be a solution. When one is in possession of such numbers, it must have implications, and something must be done about this market. Have we solved the problems? No, but we're on our way. The most important thing, I think, is the understanding that is now at the root of it. As I see it, that means that a majority in the Biggest will follow developments further closely. Research in this area must continue, and I have good faith that further action will be taken if necessary. As stated in the setting: ‘Multiannual’ — all except the Advance Party — ‘means that this has been done in the right direction in order to overcome the problems caused by gambling’. And on the other hand, ‘However, the majority consider this to be a first step’. This promises good for the future! We in SV nevertheless believe that there is reason to question this type of financing for good purposes, and then we talk about lottery and gaming activities. In principle, it is prohibited, and exceptions to the law make this possible. Gambling is sometimes referred to as a voluntary tax. Yeah, how volunteer is it now? Another tax policy principle is that those with the widest shoulders should bear the heaviest burden. We know that in gambling this is a state money collection method where ordinary people pay a higher percentage than rich people. It's those with small incomes that spend a disproportionately large part of their salary on gambling than those who earn well. Norway, following the changes that will take place here today, will continue to be a disaster. Norway is still very liberal in gambling. We're still worse than most of the others we could like to compare with. We still have too many vending machines, they're too exciting, they give too much money. For example, in Denmark and Finland, the vending machines give a gain of DKK 300. In Norway, you can win NOK 2000 on some more machines. We also want an assessment of age limits. We could wish that a general age limit of 18 years was evaluated, except for controlled games. There is no specific proposal, but we believe that it should at least be examined and assessed. We've had such a limit before. I guess we would rather have as a rule that there was a strict limit, and that we opened up to those games that we know are not triggering addiction. With the research currently available, it should be possible to identify such types of games. Then we have the Internet, and that was mentioned earlier. As for what's in the setting, I'm surprised that then it looks like the insight of the Right and the other flaws, because they want to open up games on the Internet. International studies show that the Internet is one of the hardest triggers of gambling addiction. It was said that it flowed across us. We have to make sure that Norwegian players get on the road. Now, the best solution would be not to have gambling on the Internet. Then it's suggested that it's impossible. We want an investigation into whether that is actually possible. We know that such legislative proposals are on the table in the United States. It has not been properly adopted, but the bill is there. Initially, gambling on the Internet is prohibited in the United States. In Australia, it's the same thing. It is prohibited for Australians to play, but Australian companies play against others on the Internet, for example. Norway. I think we need to use resources to figure out if it's actually possible to shield us from this, because next to the machines, playing on the Internet is probably, showing research, the worst way to play. I also think we should ask questions about whether the revenue of organisations and good purposes should be maintained at the level it is today. If we want to, and we can agree to that, we believe that we probably have to look at other ways of financing. It's increasing the number of games, such as Norwegian Tipping suggests – they think they can get even more people to play games in a safe way – I will now chew a little first. Then I think we need to do some research to see if it's actually possible. If that's possible, I'll join in. I think we might have to look at other forms of funding. Maybe we'll have to think about whether any of this is going to be financed by the tax bill. We should set up a social account of gambling addiction. How much does it cost to have 50,000 dependants? What is the cost of recruitment for crime? How much do dissolved families cost? If we put a social account over it, which of course is impossible to do, I'm not sure about it. One billion kroner that today goes for good purpose, stretching to. We should do that when we're going to decide whether there's money for games that are going to finance this. It is important in the future that Norwegian Typing is followed with the eyes of the argus, while having to trust them to do the job they are going to do, and that we have a continuous dialogue. I choose to end with SV's starting point and basic attitude to this: we cannot collect money for good purposes in a way that harms other people. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e735	The representative Magnar Lund Bergo has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e740	The representative of SV does not want vending machines. For him, the search light is aimed at the addicts of the game. I understand that, and I'm familiar with that. But how can he then support Norsk Tipping's exclusive right to operate 10,000 vending machines, when they have repeatedly demonstrated during this procedure that they are very aggressive players? They have plans for, for example, double the number of players. And even if it's not called, they also go in for games on credit. It is not called, but cashless, which is, nevertheless, a game of credit. How can SV go in for this, considering that one is trying to care for 50,000, while Norwegian Typing in its strategies had 1 million players?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e745	If the representative Karin S. Woldseth takes the time to read through the settings, she will see that we have a lot of critical comments on Norwegian Typing. As I said, we're also critical of Norwegian Typing. But compared to those that Karin S. Woldseth wants on the track – yes...
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e750	I am not going to use my line to comment on the very last sentence that was hanging in the air after SV, but it should not come from this pulpit. I'll draw attention to another aspect. The representative of SV indicates that there is a dramatic increase in the number of game addicts. He's referring to research. He refers to investigations that have been made. Then I would like to ask if it is such that it actually keeps up with one survey. Does it hold that we have one, namely Fekjær, who has written something that supports Magnar Lund Bergo's vision? Is that enough? Or does Lund Bergo think it's time we got more angles to things, and that there'll be real research, not just what's available now, four empirical studies from Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e757	The research that can convince the Progress Party to change its position on this matter, I don't think it's possible to generate. We had a round on this last year as well. It is clear that we and all the other parties, except the Advance Party, at Stortinget last year were aware that there is a lot of knowledge and research about this, which makes it easy to go along with the proposed amendments. It is clear that a party that so late as in 1999 referred to this as ‘this so-called problem’, which pointed out the importance of the self-responsiveness of adult people for their own lives, such as ‘responsive to’ the characteristic ‘without a credible investigation, investigation or analysis of this so-called problem’, a party that two years ago would have no age limit, would have no thanks to the number of vending machines and would open up casinos in Norway, would have no credibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e762	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e765	We all know the concept of the "toying man" or the "homo lyden". As the term is often used, it describes the desire to play with games and games as a kind of inherited inclination of humans. It is hardly a fruitful approach to trying to recognize these more underlying needs in life, as if it were initially something negative or inferior. It is believed to be with this as with a lot of other things, that if you can't exercise it within controlled frameworks, it can go wrong, very wrong. There is no doubt that as far as the development of the gambling market is concerned, that is what has happened. There is enough evidence to suggest that the gaming market increased in gross turnover by about one year, from 2001 to 2002. 32 pst. In other words, the Nordics increased their playing activity overall from approx. NOK 22 billion to approx. 29 billion dollars in one year, and of this increase, the so-called ATMs represent a total of 6 billion dollars or 67 pst. According to the judgment, the adverse effects of this have not been eliminated either. Following this almost explosive increase in the turnover of slot machines, the number of gambling addicts has also increased considerably. There therefore appears to be a demonstrable link between the increase in outsourced aggressive slot machines and the number of unhappy people and families affected by gambling addiction. Institutions offering treatment to gambling addicts report an increase in the number of people who want to do something about their gambling behaviour. This is also consistent with international research, which suggests that machines are more attractive to problem players than to other games. Against this background, it is high time that an effective grip was taken to force slot machines into healthier forms. The Minister of Culture and the Ministry deserves a great deal of credit for showing both political courage and creativity in order to find an appropriate model. It is gratifying that it has also been welcomed by all the political parties in the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party. Honor shall also have been given to the major humanitarian organisations, with the head of the Red Cross and the Rescue Company, who have recognized the need to take this action. These organisations have based large parts of their operations on revenue from games long before aggressive, problematic machines of the kind we have seen in recent years have been developed. The Christian People's Party believes that with the establishment of an exclusive right model, as our neighbouring countries Sweden and Finland have done, we should hope to reverse a very negative trend. With Norsk Tipping as the responsible operator and the Lottery Authority as the monitoring body, the control of this development can be managed in a proper manner. In spite of this, there is every reason to follow developments both in the gambling and lottery market with the argus eyes. After all, games other than automatic games also contribute to gambling addiction. We have already found that Norsk Tipping has taken steps to reduce any negative consequences on Oddsen. It is not least also important to keep an eye on the use of advertising for games and, in particular, to provide more knowledge of the effects of advertising in this context. In Norway, according to the law, there is only one condition to be able to run games and lotteries. It is that the surplus goes for humanitarian and social purposes. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have been very concerned every year with the framework conditions for voluntary work in teams, associations and organisations. We can show that we have promoted a number of issues to help the volunteer work to improve the situation. Some of the last ones were tax exemptions for gifts to non-governmental organisations. In this context, however, we must recognise that we have seen the need to tighten up considerably to meet the needs of those who have arrived or to be in a very unhappy situation because they can no longer control their gambling activity. We are also convinced that the arrangements now being set up will continue to help voluntary teams and organisations to receive very substantial resources for their work. Nevertheless, not everyone can expect to keep income at the level they had at the very last year. The stream of protest letters that have come to us from various associations and clubs that are anxious to lose their income has been enormous. In a way, that's understandable. However, a large number of these are those which, in the first place, saw a sharp increase in their revenues after the market began to disappear. We hope and believe, however, that those who do volunteer work beyond the country will gradually see the need for the grip that is now being taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e791	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e794	It may seem like I'm a meeting plague, but I'm the only one from the Progress Party in the Committee right now and I'm the one who knows this matter. That's why I'm going to be going up and down all the time. However, I must be allowed to ask the representative of the Christian People's Party something that I actually wonder about. The Sem Declaration states that you support the third sector. We ourselves heard that the representative Lånke said from the pulpit that non-governmental organisations and teams, both socially useful and humanitarian, were the hearts of the Christian People's Party. How, then, can you defend their loss of income? And I wonder, is it like you're going in for this and letting Norsk Tipping have a monopoly because it has something to do with that it's a shame to play gambling?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e801	It is right, as the representative Woldseth said, that the Sem Declaration underlines that we want to support voluntary work to a large extent. But there is also a contradiction between the fact that non-governmental organisations are in a way to paralyze the flow of a gambling market that has taken off at the expense of the unhappy, gambling-dependent people. That's the problem. At a time when sales on the gaming market have been completely eliminated, very many voluntary teams and associations in addition to the country have become addicted to gambling. That's exactly what we have to realize, that there are limits to how far we can go in relation to the voluntary organizations when it goes out on other weak people. As for the sin and use of Norwegian Typing, to finally take it, I don't think it has anything to do with sin. We've chosen an exclusive model with Norwegian Typing because we think it gives the greatest opportunity to control this, bring it down and get it into healthy forms, not because it's sin, but because it's sin on many people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e811	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e814	There is hardly any country that has had such a liberal slot machine policy as we have had in Norway. About 19,000 vending machines in a country with about 4.5 million inhabitants are a high number. I would particularly like to point out an important reason for changing today's law that goes on what many have been about, prevention and prevention of gambling addiction. The new model presented by the Government involves a reduction from about 19 000 to about 10,000 vending machines. The establishment policy will be changed so that the age limit of 18 years will be easier to adhere to. Automatics become less aggressive and are connected in a computer network to control the flow of money. So one can ask the question, do we have anyone who wins with the new model? The intention of the Odelstinget plurality is that the game-dependent and not least their family should become winners. Through hearings we have witnessed tragic stories that have probably shaken most of the members of the committee. It makes a deep impression on many of us when it can be called responsible family carers, on the way to the sacred trade, let itself be stopped by a tempting and aggressive machine, and the money that would be used for the purchase of groceries, instead of disappearing through the machine. I have a press clip from Sarpsborg Arbeiderblad on 31 May in front of me, where it says of a youth, a nine-year-old, who has sought help for gambling addiction. He's as far as the youngest we know, who's been looking for help on the emergency phone. There is a newly started phone, and it receives more than 30 requests per day, where shaky layers are detected. It's being translated for about 30 million. kr in the year on bet total. In the Sunnmare mail on Wednesday, May 11, one to two fresh reports shows that about 11,000 teenagers are what we can call addicts. About 49,000 Nordics have our addictions. There may also be a number of darknesses hidden there, because not everyone has responded to the investigation. The reports also indicate that the kids like to start 'borrowing' money from parents before they go out on the bank accounts, and some are so smart that they empty out the Visa accounts. Some youths play their student loans and work alongside school to finance games. According to Sunnmørsposten, 11 June, we also have the example of two young gentlemen who travel around the country, go to hotels and spend the day breaking machines. Then they use the gain to continue playing. I want to commend the Council of State for having shown courage and willingness to do something about the automation system we have today. Over many years, automatic receipts have gone for good. Millions of dollars have gone to humanitarian and social work. The three so-called big organizations, the Red Cross, the Rescue Company and the Norwegian Handicap Federation, will still receive ear-marked approval. Many people see this as unfair and unfair, especially in relation to the seven other big ones, but let's not forget that the three leading organizations have been operating with automatics since the 1960s – the rescue company started well in 1935 – and that about 70 pst. their gross income today comes from the vending machines. Let me stress that it is also important that the seven others will secure a decent economy. When it comes to the rest of the distribution, the Center Party has been busy taking care of the many small local layers and associations that may fall out of the distribution. So we're glad that a large number of people have gathered about setting B, where the government is asked to draw up regulations that guarantee this compensation. We are also pleased that the same majority is asking the Government to consider looking at the allocation scheme for teams and organisations that do not have automatic gaming. It is good to get an evaluation after five years. The negative factor that gives cause for concern is that between 700 and 900 jobs may disappear. When it comes to the competence of the Payers, I expect the emphasis to be placed on trying to secure the jobs as much as possible. So a explanation of vote: the central party supports the setting and will vote against all the proposals from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e842	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e845	The Central Party also supports the introduction of exclusive rights to Norwegian Typing – despite the fact that many of the 900 jobs that remain away are located in the districts, and despite the fact that there are very many social and humanitarian teams and organisations in the districts that have no income base other than vending machines in their districts. Does the Central Party think this is good district policy? Does the Centre Party know how much percentage of the Norwegian population depends on the game?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e852	I fully share Mr Woldseth's concerns when it comes to the hundreds of jobs. When we talk about gambling addiction and we look it up to the 700-800-900 workplaces that we're talking about, it's a bias that's been favored by the game addicts. Then we'll find other measures that will keep us and get new jobs around the district. When it comes to the percentage that gambling addicts make, I can't answer the representative. But the two completely fresh reports presented at a conference in Førde on Tuesday, 10 June, tell of the 11,000 who depended on the teens and of the 49 000 who are or have our dependents. There are high numbers for me, and if I can't represent them as a percentage, I think they're so high that they speak for themselves in isolation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e859	Actually, it's not allowed for minors to play on vending machines. Had it been ensured that you had full control of the vending machines that were operated, the 11,000 had not been there. In addition, they are implemented in the 49 000 who are or have been addicted to gambling, and they amount to approx. 0.6 pst. of the Norwegian population.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e864	That minors are not allowed to play, but that they do, is the problem for us. Whether there are minors or people over 18, 16-year-olds, 18-year-olds, 20-year-olds – the thing is, there are many people out there running. If it's 0.6 pst. or 1,6 pst. – I don't think it's that important. That we spend $30 billion a year, and that there are several thousand who are addicted, and of these there are very many children and young people under 18, I think is a big enough problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e869	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e872	It's like most of the parties agree that the government has done a good job in terms of gripping this area. I'm very happy to have a government council that's so sincerely committed to gambling addiction, and that's been willing to do something about it. We know gambling addiction is a big problem, and we now see that it's also becoming a problem for children. It's been a social problem since the morning, I think. I would also like to point out that it may not be proven that it is just the vending machines that pose a problem. There may also be a debate on gambling-related advertising, and the Council of State opens up a debate related to it. We see today a very offensive advertisement related to games, which is not linked to the idealistic purposes, but rather to the fact that lottomillionaires are not like other millionaires. We see today that a scheme has been found for Norwegian Typing to take over the automatic operation. We in the Left are not sceptical about state monopolies, at least not about such things. Today, maybe Norwegian Typing is the only one that can play such a role in such a short time. However, we would like to point out that it gives Norsk Tipping an enormously important and important role as a social actor, which they must take seriously. To evaluate this, we ask the Council of State to look at models that are in Finland, where it has been shared by different state companies, where the slot machines have their own, in order to avoid one actor having such an impact on such an important thing in society. Then I'm very happy that the government and the council have opened up too many other small games as well, because I probably don't share SV's basic negative views on all kinds of games. I think there are a lot of little girls who have gone from door to door with a book of solders, who have contributed a lot to their community, and that it's not just negative. I am very pleased that the government is in favour of the kind of small lottery – with teenagers and the book of soldering – being able to continue to happen in a simple and straightforward way. I am also very pleased with the comments made by the Committee in relation to bingo operations, because slot machines also intervene there. Bingo is a type of activity that goes a lot on the operation of local organisations, and I'm very happy that the committee has found a good solution to that. Then I just have to have a small remark at the end in relation to SV's view of games. I agree that we focus on gambling addiction, which everyone has taken up in their posts, and that it is very important. But in our focus on doing something about it, we don't have to lose what the little lotteries have done. I would like to conclude that I once assessed a 4H task from a teenager who had been fishing with Dad. He had made accounts for the trip. It said: New turn off 50 kr, ferry ticket 15 kr, income from the Knipsekassa on the ferry 18 kr – sum for trip 47 kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e887	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e890	I am not surprised that the Left is also involved in this proposal. I hope they can support us in the proposal we have to amend Section 3, so at least you ensure that no lottery tickets of another type are charged. It looks like we're actually changing the law on gambling and lottery for 0.6 pst. of the Norwegian population. That's what I think is alarming. I have to ask the Left, because there are a lot more people who are plagued by car traffic, and who are constantly sick because of it, either in the form of asthma or other respiratory problems, whether we can now wait for the Left to follow up on banning car traffic as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e900	I am pleased that the Progress Party is not amazed at the Left's vote and that we are predictable here. It's probably in the Progress Party too, who didn't want any restrictions on this, and who, except for a little 0.5 pst. today, has had no involvement with the problems that this leads to. We want to go into this, also because there are models and structures that make sure that the market doesn't get too creative in terms of getting money. We in the Left view, as I said, that the Government has done a good job in relation to the small games. I think that's exactly the trifles in relation to the local associations that really matter. And there we are very happy that the government is doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e905	The representative Skei Grande makes it sound like I'm representing the funniest party. I don't do that in any way. We have as one of our old mottos: Share the good ones. And part of sharing the goods is also sharing the joys. Of course, we want people to be able to play. Not least what Skei Grande is most concerned about, lotteries and that kind of business, it has never been in our thoughts to prohibit. But gambling is basically forbidden, and that's the good reason for it. This applies not only to Norway, but to most countries. So there are rules for exceptions, and what's important is that we have to know what we do when we make these exceptions. We have to control, so that the games that we allow do not have negative consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e910	I absolutely agree with the last post, so I actually managed with my post to provoke a little bit more clarity from SV, because I think it was very gloomy. I know that SV also arranges lottery, I personally won a witch in a lottery from SV. So it's sure that we have a common commitment here. But we don't necessarily have to view all of the lotteries as fundamentally negative. I think having lotteries, small profits and the revenue that the lotteries bring has also brought a lot of joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e915	Yes, it was nice that we were able to fix most of the things. Otherwise, I hope Skei Grande agrees that in terms of the so-called good purposes, it is doubtful whether we can put the political parties into that booth. Very well-known is SV the only batch that does not have machines outside income for itself at a local layer. I hope Skei Grande agrees that parties should not have such revenues.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e920	I believe that parties are also idealistic organizations, with idealistic people using leisure. I have, as I said, personally purchased lots of SV – Namsos SV does a good job many times, so I think they deserved those crowns. And I think it's perfectly okay that they can do it. I believe that political parties should not be the most aggressive at this, but to run small lotteries on markets to finance a bode where party information is provided, I think I was quite right by Namsos's SV to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e925	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e928	It's probably true, as has been said in a lot of lines here earlier today, that gambling is a limited problem. There are few in Norway who are hit by it, fortunately, perhaps no more than the number of votes of the previous speaker. However, it is a serious problem for those affected, just as it is a serious problem when people get asthma or allergies or get run over in traffic. And just as we're trying to make limits and rules that help them, it's of course that we should do everything we can to help those who are hit by gambling madness, and avoid being hit by it more. It's clear that with many tens, maybe hundreds of different players in a gambling market, it's going to be very difficult to get an overview of it, and it's going to be hard to control it. The system for which the Committee operates will be a clearer system. Then you can agree or disagree on whether it would have been possible to get an equally tidy system with a private gaming market, but at least it is certain that the system now proposed will contribute significantly to a clean-up. This means, of course, that those who have had this as their business in different private enterprises need to change and find other areas of activity. Now some of these companies already have other areas of work. Here, I would like to say from the Labour Party that the main thing is to have reasonable transitional arrangements, so that the investments made in very many companies give a reasonable return in a transitional phase, and that the different machines and concessions are phased out in such a way that it does not seem unreasonable to them that way. Then you also get the time you need to change your business, so this does not get bad results for the jobs and employees. We have also been particularly concerned about the jobs in Valdres. There are many jobs in a small village. If you compare it to a city like Oslo, there would be thousands of jobs compared to the population. We just had a difficult discussion about some supervision that was to be moved, and the 900 jobs in Oslo we were occupied with in that connection. Now we're making new decisions, which affect jobs in a small municipality. Here we have come up with good wording in the wording, that Norwegian Typing should use the environment and the expertise available at the Feners. I assume that the Council of State as a general assembly in Norwegian Typing will ensure that it is implemented. Then we're also busy with bingo vending machines. It's been a special case, because this isn't really the normal automatic market we're talking about. We're talking about the same activity that's going on in local bingo, just that instead of doing it on paper sheets and with plugs, it's going on on vending machines. It should be possible to get an agreement between Norsk Typing and the various bingo organisers that ensures that a substantial part of the money from these machines falls within the purpose for which the bingo operates. It is clear that Norwegian Typing, which is going to have these vending machines and operate them, must have paid for it and perhaps also have a margin on it, but it has to be ensured that the essential of the purpose money actually falls within the local bingo purpose. The alternative is probably that there won't be any bingo vending machines, but that all bingo is going on in the old way, to say it like that. It has no practical significance either for society or Norwegian Typing, except that they get a little less opportunity to play bingo in that room. So we assume that we're solving. The various organisers must also have a reasonable time, until 2005, to phase out and phase out the existing machinery. Large investments have been made, and it is both socio-economically useful and profitable and also practical for us that there is a degree of flexibility in phasing out. So finally some words about research. A lot of money has to be spent on research. I assume that the Council of State uses the good research environments that exist in Norway. We heard a conference on the game of the environment that is in Trondheim in relation to this, that has international competence in it. It is important that in the debate there are several good, competent research communities that report. It should not be such a one-sided research material as the media has focused on, from perhaps one environment, but we need to get more well-qualified internationally qualified environments on the research side. We're going to spend a lot of money on this, and it's important that the money is spent properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e947	The attitude of the Committee and the debate in Odelstinget today is very pleasing. A joint committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, has supported the Government's proposal that Norwegian Typing should be responsible for operating the vending machines. The majority have chosen to give priority to the human and social concerns of gambling policy rather than to purely commercial and economic concerns. When one knows the strength of the counterclaims, I'm especially pleased that the plural now joins a historical tightening, which takes the playing problems seriously. As the leader of a party where the lasting values and respect for the individual are at the centre, I think this is a big one, not only for my party and for the government that I am in, but also for the Storting and the whole political system. The process until today's political support has been long and complicated. The Bondevik I government, in its time, tightened the rules for vending machines, which were later converted by the Justice Committee at Stortinget. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights set out the basis for its approach to the constraints at that time on the supervision of its revenue. In recent years, we have seen some serious consequences of the decision. The turnover of vending machines in particular has exploded. Estimates show that such machines convert for 15 billion dollars last year. In that case, this is an increase of 67 pst. compare with the Lottery Authority’s figures for 2001. We play on the corresponding three-four cultural budgets every year. The competition between different operators has given rise to an unfortunate struggle for the creation of machines with the highest possible ignition, and this has led to an unfortunate battle for the best setup sites. This has led to the wrong place. The proposal that has now been supported by almost the entire committee takes account of these developments. The proposal has been made through a thorough analysis and through good cooperation between the Ministry and the main social and humanitarian organisations. The opposition from the purely commercial interests in the gaming market has nevertheless been great all the way, and he may not be over, despite the fact that the Storting is now standing behind the proposal. Several of the actors would light up several hundred million dollars on a postponement of the case, and billions on a rejection of the case. I would like to thank the Committee for having handled these matters in a good way without being pressured. Several actors in today's market have already indicated that they will bring the case before the judiciary. There are now two complaints about the proposal by the market players for the management of the EFTA Supervisory Authority, ESA, in Brussels. The ESA will deal with the complaints when the Stortinget has made its decisions. However, both the government and I are overestimated that the proposal is within the scope of national self-government rights open to the EEA Agreement. The government of the one-rights model is a device for the most defenceful establishment of the slot machine market in Norway. One-right for Norwegian Typing will provide optimal control and allow the machine to change its function quickly as knowledge increases on which factors increase the risk of gambling problems. This allows us to make changes to take game dependencies more quickly than in any other model. Thus, a one-right model will better prevent damage. This model will also provide rationalisation gains to ensure the Government's objective of reducing the number of vending machines from 18 000 to 19 000, and ensure a significant decrease in total vending machines turnover, while maintaining the surplus of the social and humanitarian objectives at the 2001 level. Personally, I must say that it warms my heart when it will now be possible to make such a tightening. For a long time I have received letters and e-mails from gambling addicts or relatives who are in a tragic situation because of financial losses and debts in connection with gambling. Discussions about the game problems can quickly become a discussion about the number of addicts. But behind the speech we find individuals and relatives with big economic and personal problems. I'm glad we can now give these many a response that I believe in. Even if the problems are not solved, we will now get the vending machines away from the grocery stores and the open rooms in the mall. It will also be the state itself that is directly responsible for the games that are out on these machines. In that I believe there is too many a hope of a moderated and more defensive development in the time to come. I can promise that at least I'll do mine so that we now have a completely different development in this market. For organisations, the one-rights model implies that the revenue from the automatic machines will be stable at the corresponding level from 2001. From 2006, these revenues will come via the Norwegian Typing game surplus. The fact that the automatic receipts and excesses of Norwegian Typing's other games are being collected in one pot, in my opinion, will prove to be a great advantage in the years ahead. The proposal proposes that the Red Cross, the Rescue Company and Norway's Handicap Association should have a fixed share of the surplus. I have also noticed that the Committee of the Regions wants to secure also the seven other major humanitarian organisations some form of security in the allocation of funds. The new scheme means that in the future the social and humanitarian organisations will not be so linked to the lottery revenue from automatons that they have been to date. This will make it easier for both Norwegian Typing and political authorities to develop the overall range of games in a responsible direction, because games with major damage effects can be more easily built down and replaced by games with lower risk, without reducing the collection of revenue. It is simply not the case in the Norwegian gambling tradition that the most innovating gambling is allowed at any time, rather the opposite. Under Norwegian law, gambling about money is outlawed. This has been a principle in Norwegian legislation for hundreds of years. The gambling and lotteries that society opens to are therefore exceptions to the main principle. Ever since Stortinget passed a law on lottery and playoffs in 1851, the morals of the game and lotteries have been mentioned. There has been a broad political agreement in the future that playful people can best be channelled through a public society, because this gives full public control and transparency. Unlike private commercial companies, a state non-profit company can also play a better role in preventing and avoiding the gambling that gives the most unfortunate social consequences. This is what Norwegian Typing appears to be a game policy instrument in the implementation of a game policy that we have agreed on. These particular concerns are also reflected in the rationale that gambling is partly excluded from the principle of free competition within the EU/EEA area. The organisation of gambling through public companies is therefore also the main model in a number of European countries. The Ministry will now, in line with the comments of the Committee of the Regions and in cooperation with Norwegian Typing and the Lottery Authority, be free to work on implementing this in Norway. In this work, we will consider the many local lottery services that provide income for non-profit groups and organisations. I am therefore pleased with the extra focus that the Committee has seen. in bingo as a social hit point and entertainment provision. It will be stressed that the teams and organisations with bingo revenues will also be able to keep them up at the 2001 level. In relation to the implementation of the one-rights model, I can also add, in the light of media speculation in recent times, that Norwegian Typing’s purchases of vending machines and other equipment will be made in accordance with the current public procurement rules. Parts of Norsk Typing's automatic business will also be added to the Ferens, with the hope that one can benefit from parts of the competence found there in connection with the existing operation of Norsk Lottery. I also have to add that the pressure from the committee has come from the government party and SV in this case, and not from the Labour Party, even if it was the ones who pulled it out in the article. The Stortinget decisions are about to remake gambling, not just automatics and bingo operations. E-commerce in gambling has created new challenges for the national gambling markets across Europe. no country has yet found effective protection against commercial Internet offers. Technological development and use of the Internet have changed the distribution of games and lotteries and their development. The use of Internet and digital technologies opens up interactive games, which specifically appeal to future generations of players. A poll taken by the Lottery Authority in December 2002 showed that 4 pst. of those who asked for 18 years and who responded that they had participated in gambling on the Internet in the last year. 4 pst. of the population over 18 years of age, is approximately 140 000 people. In addition, there are as many people who respond that they are likely to participate in online gambling in 2003 so that the number of Internet players can double by about a quarter. a year. The measure also showed that in 2002 there were a number of respondents who replied that they only played on foreign websites. Among a number of European countries, the hold-ups seem to be that the most secure approach to commercial gambling via the Internet is to build up safe and secure gambling and secure payment services at national level. But this is a difficult balance. I see a clear difference between games where the Internet is more used as a distribution channel, and where the drags happen several times a week, compared to games that you can play at all times. So I want to be held back from approving new gambling templates for the Internet and other electronic channels. I'm happy to see the committee majority staring at me in this. In the case of developments with international bets, inter alia: The Internet, both the Department and the Lottery Authority will work to influence developments. In both Nordic and European contexts, recent initiatives have provided hope for better coordination and control of international gambling. Among other things, I have recently contacted colleagues in the other Nordic countries directly with the British Minister for Culture, because the British are now working on a proposal that will open up so that one can offer gambling from British soil via the Internet to other countries, contrary to the principles that have been in force until now. Here are the strong commercial forces that lie behind, so the fight for the governance of such gambling in the future will be hard. I am also pleased that the committee majority is agreed that one should not grant permission to casino business in Norway. This is a position that will be maintained at any rate as long as I am Minister of Culture and Church. No one had expected anything else from a leader in the Christian People's Party either. One of the main estates in the bill from the Ministry is that private teams and organizations should still be able to obtain money on their own through lottery operations. I am pleased with the Committee's support for the administrative simplification of lotterilova, which allows several local teams and organisations to hold small lotteries and bazaars without permission. Expanding the circle of organisations and associations to have lotteries ensures the lack of organisation life. When local small lotteries are involved, everyone will now be able to hold a cabaloette and other bases as long as the value of the individual prize does not exceed NOK 5000. For other small lotteries, the turnover limit will be increased from NOK 100000 to NOK 150000. Last, but not least, we will facilitate the accounting and auditing obligations after lotterilova for organisations with lottery revenues below NOK 100000. These simplifications will make it easier to obtain free resources for much of the local and regional voluntary work being done. I would also like to thank you for supporting the principle that gambling on Norwegian ships in a route between Norwegian and foreign ports should be subject to the same rules as gambling on land. Finally, there is reason to stress that the gambling market has changed significantly both nationally and internationally in recent years. The technology opens up new games and new ways to distribute games. So far, evolution has weakened the overall governance of the gambling supply in Norway. The newspapers report more and more people who have played away both home and family life from the computer at home or at work. In choosing a strategy to meet this development, it must not be forgotten that the goal of Norwegian gambling policy is a moderate game development. In a situation of increased gambling from abroad via the Internet and other channels, we must avoid encountering the new competition with as aggressive gambling as the offers we want to protect ourselves from outside. History has shown for hundreds of years that, over a period of time, the game industry has intervened, and is then streamlined because of the unfortunate consequences that appear. I believe that the international gambling supply, as we see it, will eventually enter into more regulated forms, when the consequences of developments become better known. When that time comes, it's important that we in Norway don't have as aggressive games as the ones we want to ban. The new one-right model, which is now established by a broad majority in Stortinget, gives us the necessary gaming policy power to better control developments where we want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e987	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e990	I will only ask the Council of State to confirm this with the piece of research. The working party fully agrees with the Council of State that it should be set by 0,5 pst. for research. But we are a little concerned with the research environments chosen by the Council of State, because we are concerned that the funds go to research and not to treatment, and that the best research environments are used both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e995	It is obvious that when we get more resources that we can spend on research, information and treatment, the large amount of treatment we have still needs to go through the usual health services we have, not through this percentage. If we can have some activity through this half percent, we'll see. But we can also choose a new research environment and a variety of research environments – I myself know the environment in Trondheim as a Geese student, and there are others internationally. Now we can get the chance because we have the money for it. Then we can also be more focused on what we do with Norwegian Typing's activity, if we see that there might be other games that are even more dangerous, or that some are less dangerous and less aggressive than the development of more game addicts. We can intervene faster with the one-right model that we're creating today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1001	We heard the Council say that when purchasing Norsk Tipping, it follows the current laws and regulations. The Council of State has put a lot of prestige in this matter, both through its public statements on the matter and its pressure on the representatives of the big business. It is a little surprising, since the Council of State based its strategy on the fact that she apparently has such good control of what Norwegian Typing is doing, that today a letter from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the Ministry of Culture concluded that Norsk Typing is subject to the state's procurement rules and has violated them. Does the Council of State really have such good control over the underlying activities that she expresses, and what does the Council of State intend to do with regard to the conclusions of the Ministry of Industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1006	If it were even such that government councils from a minority government could only press the big ones and then they had their will, I would have been overjoyed – no, I don't know if I had actually been – but that's not the way it is. In fact, the majority in the committee have received enough information. I myself have been working on matters since I became the Council of State. There was one of the first things I got into. So here's a long time on pre-work before one introduced this proposition. This has not been an urgent task, as Mr Woldseth has said. When it comes to Norwegian Tipping, so far they have, according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, been exempt from public procurement rules. But when Norsk Tipping gets a one-right area, their entire sector is expanded, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has in letters to us, as also the representative Woldseth mentioned, concluded that Norsk Tipping should now be subject to the law of supply. This assessment we are in the Ministry of Culture and the Church quite a few. It will also be distributed to Norwegian Typing. But they have not been covered by it before.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1015	There are two types of games at the trial stage. There are games on the mobile phone, and there are games on the Internet. In the vote there is a proposal to explore the possibility of establishing it on a Norwegian basis. But we know that internationally there are several countries that are trying to protect themselves against this, and are trying to impose a ban. I think it'll be a lot harder to get a ban. If we allow Norwegian companies, I think it will be difficult to try to prevent foreign companies. I think it would be a proper strategy to prevent this kind of game on the Internet. We have put forward a proposal to explore the possibility of this. Would the Council of State be able to follow up such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1020	This is a part of the game offer we're going to follow very closely. As I said in my post, I've been in contact with the British Minister of Culture to avoid them trying to trick themselves into the Norwegian market through their channels. There's an international market here. But I can promise Lund Bergo that we're going to follow this closely. If we see that this is a game offer that might be a bigger problem or as big a problem as the machines, we're going to do what we can to limit access. I also think that Lund Bergo has read in the proposition that we're quite critical, but to ban that we haven't suggested. We don't know if we can, but at least we want to follow this closely. Then we'll see what we're going to have to deal with in the long run, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1025	Now the state council said it again: lure in. She spoke in her post about counterclaims. I guess it was the industry the Council of State talked about as counterclaims. Does the Council really believe that an industry of 900 employees is counterpowers? And don't the Council of State have any understanding that an industry of 900 employees is actually fighting a desperate fight for their lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1030	Isn't Karin S. Woldseth aware that lottery business was never meant to be an industry? There's actually a ban in Norway on gambling. But we allow it if and when it can go to social work. It was never meant to be an industry. Our law has opened up to it, and we have seen the consequences of it. I'm not saying they've done anything illegal. But we are also aware that those who are now being deprived of the right to drive machines are missing billions of revenue, and then the counter-requisite becomes big. I understand them well, I, they fight for their income. But the gambling market and the lottery business are never meant to be an industry. And now we clean this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1035	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1040	I was not finished, so I have to say now what I need. First, until the representative from the Workers' Party said that the Progress Party was involved in supporting the Workers' Party and SV in getting through the key. It's a truth with certain modifications. It was actually the document No of the Progress Party. 8-proposals supported by the Workers' Party and SV. But the reason we agreed to that was because they were voluntary teams and organisations. As I finished my previous post, it's the thousands of volunteer teams and organizations that get their income base torn away, that worry us. We are concerned that all these organisations are now being thrown into uncertainty – whether you are going to get money from the Ministry of Culture, or whether you have to go back to unpaid idealism. And the Advancement Party does not spring from idealism, we actually take it seriously. There are very few – if none – who operate as efficiently for each krona they get, as those who engage in real engagement and idealism. I hope that the other political parties actually know the consequences of what they're doing, because I don't think any of the volunteer teams and organizations know yet. When you introduce a monopoly on vending machines and think that by doing that you prevent people from becoming addicted to gambling, and especially when you know that the strategy of Norwegian Typing was to double the number of players, I think it's a naive starting point. Had they removed vending machines, I would have understood the intentions, but using gambling addicts to get the state to clean up big incomes, I think I'm more than wonderful. Not only will it become what was a little sloppy, petty-criminal and addictive – you should believe the proposition – immediately legitimate and harmless when the state takes over everything. Several organisations, which themselves were not in the automatic market when it was a private sector, are now notifying that they would like to apply for funds from the surplus. I don't get it! Does money from slot machines become legitimate and white because they come from the state and the Ministry of Culture? I'm just asking. Is it immediately more legitimate to receive money from the profits if the money has been money-laundered through state-owned monopolies, when the money comes from the same players as the other parties today want to protect? What about all the teams and organizations that might lose the couple thousand dollars they got from their local vending machines, and that might not have this income in 2001, but have got it afterwards? [[President clubs]] President, I get to come back, because I didn't finish now either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1055	I just want to express some joy today, because in addition to getting a clean-up in the gambling market, it's a happy day in Valdres. Norwegian lottery company AS established itself for a few years back, at the Payers, and there was an urgent job in the municipality of Nord-Aurdal, yes, actually for the whole of Valdres, and it in an area of Uppland where new jobs were not exactly in line. The company is now part of the Valdres Nutrition Centre, and they possess important competences that Norwegian Typing must – not only should, but must – make changes. It is therefore with great pleasure that we from Uppland find that Stortinget believes it is important that Norsk Tipping continues gaming-related activities at Fensen. And of what I've seen of the product development and broad competence of Norwegian Lotteries AS, this must be used by Norwegian Typing, so that jobs are secured and further developed at Fensers. I think it should be unnecessary to say that it is not necessary to reinvent all the powder each time. It's a good day for Valdres today, and I just wanted to give these comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1077	Yes, it is a good day for the Ferenes and Valdres, not least thanks to the SV and the government parties, who made clarifications at an early stage, and also during the hearing. So when we saw in the newspapers in Oppland that the Workers' Party was working too hard on the Stortinget to find a solution for the Payers, the solution was already in the box. They knew that well – but it's doing well in the paper. What I am critical of in the context of what is available is that it is based on the level of revenue for 2001. When I believe that this is unfortunate, it is because almost all the professionals believe that it is a time when the gaming market was already out of control. I believe that the level of revenue is too high. I understand the grip that has been made to ensure the good purposes in a way that is to live with. We also want to be part of that – of course. But it has to be possible to discuss that level. Because if we go a little further back, until before 1995, the income level of the vast majority of organizations, not least the ten largest, was quite another. So there's someone who's learned to live in very large shoes from 1995 until now, and I don't think it's obvious that that shoe size should be included in the future. At least we should be able to talk about that. What's the deal with gambling? Is that the income, that is, the need for money for good purposes, to determine? Or are we going to start with the studies and take the problems that these show, seriously, let the problems around it control the amount of games? And then we have to figure out whether there's a gap between what we can get in properly on gambling and what's the need of the organizations. So we have to discuss: are there other ways to fund this? The other thing I'm thinking about is that it's taking a good grip on the number of machines, but it doesn't help much when we don't do anything with the vending machines. Because they also trigger gambling addiction. There is no reason for Norwegian vending machines to be significantly more uplifted in terms of turnover rates. You can put in a 500-note. Mostly you'll lose it in 75 seconds. In Finland, they only have coins. That is what we are proposing. It has been suggested that credit cards, which I hope we can get a confirmation that they will not be valid. The second is the amount of the winnings, where Norway operates at NOK 2 000 and upwards, while Finland and Denmark manage at NOK 300. I see that it can reduce the level of income, but I believe that there are also the necessary measures to bring about the death of gambling addiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1090	We heard the state council say she's happy that the ferry companies' vending machines are now getting the same rules as vending machines on land. In the proposal, there is also a section that ferry companies should also be included in this amendment. This means that both domestic and international ferries are affected by this change in law. The consequences of this are, of course, giving Norwegian ferry companies conditions of competition worse than those under the foreign flag. The introduction of special rules for vending machines on board Norwegian boats also weakens the income base. Norwegian shipping companies spend a lot of money marketing Norway as a tourist destination, and Norwegian ferry companies contribute a lot of money into this country through tourists. What may be even worse about taking from the shipping companies an income base is that they have not been included in the process. They had actually not been heard until we had a hearing in Stortinget. You can suspect the department was on a tour of Denmark while you wrote this proposition, and you figured out that you had forgotten some vending machines. The other parties have written a note saying that the shipping industry will be included when the regulations are made. But I find it very difficult to believe that this has something to do with anything other than to soften the shipping industry. It is announced that this is the drop that is requested to flow to the ferry companies, and that some of the shipping companies now actually consider to be serious about flagging out. And then I'm asking if any of the other parties are aware of the consequences of what they're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1102	I have followed the debate with interest. Of course, it's too late to make someone in this hall turn around, and that's sad. I followed the debate with interest because the undersigned was the case rapporteur for what we called the voluntary service. It's amazing how quickly individual parties, some of them, some of them, some of them, some of them, can forget what they're kind of emphasising when we're dealing with volunteering. I would like to quote from the setting where a minority in the Committee referred to ‘the notified attention to the fact that the State has taken over and monopolised large parts of its own revenue base. ... considers that the country’s involvement in the gambling market together with large and heavy national, and also after each international, organisations, vacuums the ‘receipt of voluntary teams and organisations’. The Committee therefore feels that there is a serious trend when popular, uncontroversial sources of income appear to be on the land, while organisations and voluntary activities remain subject to disputeable and controversial measures that create debate on gambling dependence.’ The note is not from the Committee but from the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right. Here's exactly what's being done to the opposite. This is not primarily about gambling — that’s a big problem — but about cracking down on the good spirit in Norway. Because that's what's going to result from this. Small teams and organisations, nurseries, review teams and sports teams are deprived of the opportunity to earn income to work for children and young people. They're taking away that possibility now. It is made public by the state council's answer city of Haugland to sit and determine morally who deserves a crown in support or not. That's what's happening. It's amazing that the Workers' Party is going into that trap and laying down on the moralistic line that the Government is doing in this case, because that's what this is all about. Game is an abomination for the Christian People's Party, and then the Council of State uses this matter to get a majority to crack on a whole bunch of voluntary teams and organizations. I'm startled by the evolution we're seeing here. And I am aware that there will also be a further debate – in addition to the decision that is being taken today. We'll probably see what this government, with the state council's answer town Haugland at the head, really wants in relation to its tactical disposals in such matters as this. What's most frightening is that the Workers' Party is at the head of attacking the own ideology of voluntary organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1122	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 984]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1138	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Workers' Party, 5 minutes to the other groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1145	This matter could be simple, as the Committee is essentially in agreement with the changes proposed by the Government in Ot.prp. No 61 for 2002-2003. The Committee agrees that the fees for services from the Brønn Island Health Registers shall no longer be linked to the legal fee. We see that this can provide more flexibility in determining the cost of the individual services, regardless of whether one maintains the income requirements of the Brønn Island Health Registers. It is also proposed to include alternative fee homes in the laws regulating the services of the various registers in Brønnøysund, i.e. the Business Registers Act and the Law on Dispute Resolution and the repeal of the current provisions of the Law on Fees. A common fee regulation will be established for all registers in Brønnøysund. The Committee has noted that the consultative bodies are in favour of the conversion. The Committee also agrees that the charging of fees should in the future follow the principle that revenue should cover the costs of operation and development and that the registers should be assessed in a group manner according to the customers to whom they provide services. In this area too, there are regulations. The Committee has noted that, in particular, the Business Register has been criticised for over-charges. In particular, the fees for new registration of undertakings. However, it turns out that the current surplus in the Brønnøysund registers is largely due to the fees associated with asset clearing/registration in the Løsøreregister, not registrations in the Business Register. The committee takes this into account, and we end up as said to the main elements of the proposition. It is in one area the committee is divided, and it concerns the closure of the paper part of the Norwegian light sheet. The minority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, believe that it is wrong to lay down the paper part without clarifying the practical and economic consequences. We would therefore like the part of the proposition that deals with this to be examined in more detail, so that the consequences are clarified and the current tenderer and the ministry can find acceptable solutions. In particular, it is important to clarify the impact of this on the database on public acquisitions in Norway, Dofin, as the funding is linked to the current Norwegian lighting sheet scheme. Similarly, the Ministry’s claim in the bill that the notices from Brønnøysund’s registers in Norsk lyningsblad cost more than 32 million. kr. The amount paid by the Brønnøsund Registers is a transfer to the Ministry of Finance, where Norsk Lysingsblad may retain only one third of the total cost of publication relating to its published notices. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Government Parties and the Advance Party, also state in their proposal that they will have a detailed description of the practical and economic impact of the Norwegian lighting sheet on the 2004 budget. It is therefore, in reality, an overall committee that expresses uncertainties about the consequences. What we know today is that 27 workplaces are in danger of disappearing. In a letter dated 28 May 2003 from the Council of State to the Committee: ‘The total economy of Norsk Lysingsblad has not been a central theme of my ministry’s work on this proposition.’ It is therefore difficult to understand that the government parties and the Progress Party cannot take the time to look at the reality of the matter, and to give the employees of Nor-Trek a better time for conversion. That's what they're asking for. There is also something missing in the argument when we know that the company recently had a visit by Finance Minister Per-Kristian Foss, and he then boasted of the company and the technological development of Nor-Truck. Then he travels back to Oslo, for then in the government to decide that there should be a stop overnight. It is that business lives its own lives on the basis of the framework conditions that we in the Storting determine. In these days at least we in the minority, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, feel despair that unemployment is increasing so much. In this case, we could have specifically prevented almost 30 people from becoming unemployed. In Narvik, this means enormously, also for the whole region of Ofoten, because many of the employees are women. When the total economy has not been a central issue, why are governments and government parties so in haste? I therefore urge the Council of State Gabrielsen to clarify in its statement how the Government will handle the matter in a practical way. It is not least for management and employees to be entitled to do so. And then I'm going to take up the minority proposal, as shown on page 3 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1180	The representative Aud Gaundal has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1183	I note that it is a largely overall committee that adheres to the main principles of the proposition. What this matter is about is that the fees received by the registers for the future, on the basis of a common objective throughout the Storting, should initially not cover more than the cost of operating the registers. We all know that the case today is that the income is far greater than the cost. This case leads us a step towards saving Norwegian business for fee costs and will make it easier to contact the registers that are set to keep track of the tasks mentioned in the proposal. Therefore, it is gratifying that the whole Storting is involved in making sure that we can help reduce the cost of the fees. At the same time, we know that when we switch to electronic publishing, we will now – and we have been documented – a much larger number of contact points, users, customers, than what we have been able to achieve with a paper version. Our starting point is that these savings should benefit business through reduced fees. The fact that the Norwegian lighting magazine now loses a large customer is, of course, regrettable, but I believe that what has been damaged by the case rapporteur is to completely turn this matter upside down. I believe that presenting this as if this is a matter of concern to the relationship of the Storting with a company, has actually been removed from its context. If Nor-Truckk as a company has to be shut down because of this decision, the question has to be asked: What other factors should be involved and contribute to the closure of this company? In view of the fact that this decision will lead to the disappearance of 27 jobs, it is necessary to ask the large customer of Nor-Truckk about how the owner wishes to practise his main task in the future. And one has to look at the realities of the agreement, the option agreement, concluded between the A-press and Schibsted, which implies that it is likely that the largest customer to Nor-Truckk, namely their own magazine, will move the printing from Narvik to Harstad, as part of a major restructuring carried out in this region. What this case is about is that Nor-Trukk, who prints the Lysing magazine, has a tender agreement that has been between 1998 and 31 December 2002, with an option of five new years, and which is renewed one year at a time, where there is no guarantee in the Stortinget that Nor-Trukk will be able to win future bidding rounds, whether or not to continue the paper edition. In any case, you would not have been able to obtain greater security for this part of the Lightpaper job, as today's contract work is, than one year at a time. As regards the ratio that is guaranteed for further business, I find that there is no one who proposes to provide any guarantee regarding the paper version of the Lightpaper for the future. I see that the minority is content to ask for an impact assessment. I think this is done for purely convenience, because you know the answer to the questions you want to ask. That this has become a matter of convenience in Narvik, which is exploited by a rapporteur and an editor who should have asked far more critical questions to the owner of Nor-Truckk than those that are allowed to put to the Norwegian store, we are only allowed to take note. Finally, I have a question for the Council of State when he is going to deal with this decision on the collapse. It is for the transitional arrangement whether it is perceived that this Decision is to be implemented with immediate effect and whether it is to be enforced with a hard hand. My question is, how will the Council of States practice this, and what does he add to the concept of ‘transitional arrangements’ in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1198	The Brønnøsund Registers provide good revenue to the State. The four-year fee surplus was 145 million. kr. This was 6 million. NOK less than in 2001, when the registries returned with a net gain of 151 million. kr. The downturn is explained by the fact that fewer messages were sent, among others. to the Business Register, as at the previous year. At the same time, fees have increased, but not as much as costs. In total, the Brønnøsund registers have taken an overprice of more than 720 million. kr in the last five years. On average, there is a surplus of fees in relation to self-financing, i.e. operating and investment costs, at 145 million. kr every one year. The party considered the profit on fees to be an extra tax on business. We have made a number of proposals that fees should be incorporated in line with the principle of self-financing. The high fees have been a strenuous extra cost, especially for the many smaller businesses, and have also been a solid dairy cow for the state. I'm disappointed that it hasn't been possible long before to gather a political majority to do something about it. The case is an old trophy, and no long investigation is needed to clean up these conditions. The Council of State has stated that he wants to do something about the sky-high level of charges, so that there is a better match between what is paid and what is actually costing the services. The Progress Party therefore sees the proposition as part of the work to be carried out by the Ministry in order to modify the charging policy in the Brønn Island Health Registers. Before the anticipated reductions in fees can be implemented, changes to the legal and regulatory framework must be made. The government's proposal involves changes to the law on legal fees and company law. The Progress Party welcomes the trajectory drawn up in order to achieve the objective of simplification and reduction of fees. The fees in the Brønnøsund Registers shall be decoupled from the legal fee. The proposal for a common fee regulation for all registers is fully consistent with the idea of the ‘Simplifying Norway’ project. Such a systematic approach will make it easier for customers and users of the Brønnøysund registers to find the right fee. It will also make it easier for the Ministry to adjust the amount of the funds, since only amendments to a fee regulation and not to more specific laws will be necessary. We also support the proposals for amendments to the provisions on notices for the Brønn Island Health Registers. However, it is a prerequisite for maintaining publication in local newspapers on the same scale as it is at present. Provision is made for the costs of publication to be reduced accordingly. In the event of a loss of publication costs in the paper version of the Norwegian lighting sheet, a saving of 32 million is achieved. kr. This requires a one-off cost of NOK 400000 for the further development of the Brønnøsund registers. The operation of the notice base will be no more costly than today as a result of the conversion. In addition, entrepreneurs benefit from an efficiency gain through improved access to information and search opportunities. The transition for industry to a statutory publication electronically instead of Norwegian light sheets will entail significant cost savings. The price in Lysingsbladet is 7 kr per. split millimetres, while publication in the Brønnøsund registers will have a lower cost. The proposal for new publication rules is a move towards the policy of the Progress Party and long-term proposals for self-financing of the abovementioned registers, and is welcomed. Finally, on the basis of what we are very impatient, I will take the opportunity to ask the Council of State: When can we expect the next step? This is a first step, and we also assume that the gain we are now achieving will help to reduce the fees in general. But there's a long way to go. I remember that when the Council of State was an opposition politician, he had it as one of his main objectives to remove this extra tax for business. Now he's in government, in the government party, and I hope he can give clear signals from the pulpit today about when we can expect the next step towards a further improvement for the many small and medium-sized enterprises that are struggling in today's Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1215	Since the case spokesperson had a good post, and since the one half of the post to the representative Kristiansen was good, I'm not going to spend so much time talking about what we're all about. I just want to make it clear that there is a collective committee that wants these changes, and neither for SV is it a goal that this form of fee should contribute to a huge surplus for the state. We support this conversion. What's not settled is the closure of the paper part of the Norwegian lighting sheet and the consequences for today's suppliers. There have been some questions about the department's decision base in the course of our treatment, and we feel that we still don't have enough answers to make sure that we can be sure what kind of consequences this will have. So here we're asking for a new review and a new case before going on. I note that the government party in the Committee and the Progress Party would also like to know the consequences, but only afterwards, and I thought that might be a little special. When the representative, Kristiansen, talks about ‘convenientness’, I wonder if it is precisely this that a pluralist person makes his remark in this way. The response from Narvik to the treatment of this matter has been very strong, and I don't understand why the government party and the Progress Party may be involved in a review here. At the same time, I note that the parties mentioned are not very popular in Narvik for the time being. If you want to, you can blame managers and editors, but the responsibility for what you do on the Storting must be the same. I think it is something special that the Right Party first sends the Minister of Finance to Narvik and cheers on the success of Nor-Truckk and the work that one has done there, and expresses something such as that this proves that competitive exposure works, and then sends the Minister of Industry to a less gentle meeting with the same company and the same community. In Narvik one feels like a paradox that the state is involved in transferring jobs from a private enterprise to a state institution. It doesn't have to be the purpose of the ministry in this work, but at least that's how they experience it in this community, and I thought we should take it in. It seemed to me that one should take responsibility for it, and then editors and spokesmen get to do the job they're set to do, and then we get to do the job we're set to do. I believe that the government party and the Progress Party would have stood by asking for a new and more thorough treatment and then come back with a new case. So there's one that's not interested in, and I think it's stupid. But then we all have to take responsibility for the decisions we agree to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1236	In the 2002 budget, it was briefed that the Ministry would return to the Stortinget with a comprehensive assessment of Brønnøysundregistra’s fiscal policy in the 2003 state budget. In this context, a general presentation of the problems that the Ministry is dealing with was made, and it was shown that the cases were to be sent on a hearing. It's done, and now it's done for Stortinget. The proposal states that the fee for services provided by Brønnøsundregistra should no longer be linked to the legal fee. This will allow for greater flexibility in setting fees for the individual services, regardless of whether they are consistent with the income requirements of the Brønnøsundregistra. The reason for doing something about the fee is that they have been subjected to criticism from business organisations, politicians and the media. This criticism has mainly been that Brønnøsundregistra has a total surplus. The day's residence permits under the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on For a number of registrations made by the Register of Businesses, it is compulsory to publish. According to today's legislation, notices shall be published in the Norwegian Lightsblad, as well as some aspects shall also be published in newspapers. According to the EU's First Company Directive, it is an obligation to publish certain aspects of company law in the National Gazette. These rules have been interpreted as meaning that this publication should have our paper-based. In June 2002, the European Commission presented a proposal for amendments to the First Company Directive as explicitly open to electronic publication solutions. This means that the EEA rules do not preclude the switch to an electronic publication solution. This suggests a switch to electronic publishing on the Internet using the databases in Brønnøysundregistra. It will be implemented by changes of laws in all the different laws that today require the Business Register or the companies themselves to publish in Norwegian lighting sheets. We end up with the changes that have been proposed in the Notice Rules, and we see that users will receive at least as good a quote as they do today, while reducing the fee in the Business Register. The switch to electronic publishing entails a saving, which in turn can be used to reduce the fee in the registers. At the same time, there is some information from the Narvik company Nor-Trykk AS, which is responsible for the production and operation of Norwegian light sheets in paper versions and electronic versions, which highlights aspects of the issues that have not previously arisen in relation to real savings, simplifications, workplaces and district policies. This company, which watered this supply, has a difficult situation if this printing operation disappears. The consequences of this omission in the income base of the Norwegian lighting sheet mean that we have found it necessary to ask the Government to come back with a detailed description of the practical and economic consequences of the Norwegian lighting sheet on transition to electronic publishing. This solution is a good one for us. The Christian People's Party assumes that this department will be in close contact with Nor-Truckk, so that this transition phase can be used for constructive cooperation in order to achieve a necessary transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1259	The issue we have to deal with today is one where the government could have actually been offensive in relation to the outsourcing of public services. Several have referred to Per Kristian Foss’ opinions in Narvik on 2 May this year. Rarely have I read a more praiseworthy description of a private enterprise's maker and loader than Per Kristian Foss stated in Narvik that day. A little bit, I guess, the employees at Nor-Trukk that there was a death kiss the finance minister came to give them that day. The company faces an uncertain future. But it is not just the company that faces an uncertain future. The situation of businesses that we have to maintain in some way is also not clarified in the proposition made by the Government, and I am talking, among other things. on the public acquisition database, the so-called DOFFIN. Instead of being concerned with the privatisation of the school, of the health services and of the elderly, the Minister of Economic Affairs could have shown action and said that this is a success story, where a long-term private enterprise has shown the ability to carry out public tasks in an excellent way. He could have further said that the Government would build up such success companies by assigning them tasks, not taking tasks from private companies and giving them to state agencies, as the Government is now doing – contrary to what is the Cooperation Government's own statements on how to work. We are told that it is more important to privatise school, health care and care for the elderly than the type of work that private enterprises can do to benefit. Ivar Kristiansen accuses the minority of taking a stand on a case for purely ‘comfort’ reasons. That's so far a typical way for Ivar Kristiansen to debate matters, but it's no longer going to be right for that reason. I would like to say that it is simply unheard of to accuse its political opponents of that kind of motive when you take a stand on a matter. We also see that the electronic notice will take over, and at some point we will have to take over, for the paper version. But the minority therefore believe that the economic and practical consequences for Nor-Trekk should have been clarified before doing what you are doing. As I said earlier in my post, you should have considered whether you could have assigned this company tasks to maintain the business, and continue this success story, by taking other government tasks and doing them in the same satisfactory way that you've done so far. It is also such that, among other things, The government's administrative service disputes the savings with which it is operated by the Government. It is almost not to be expected that it will be possible to perform all the services currently performed by Nor-Truckk in Narvik, without costing one krone in operation, by transferring them to the Brønn Island Health Register. It remains to be seen. As I also said, the impact on the DOFFIN database, the public acquisition database, is not clarified in the proposal submitted by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1280	What this really applies to is, it's a broad consensus. The conversion that we're talking about supports the Left with all its heart to make it easier for businesses, and especially small businesses, to establish themselves, and where this actually means something. We're not represented in the committee, and sometimes the debate gets a little weird compared to what we read in the vote. As we have seen the matter, it concerns a mandate to the Government. We've also had a lot of pressure from our locals in relation to the jobs that this is about in Narvik. But as I read the setting, it is not about any direct closure or about a date of closure. I read it so it's about a mandate to the Government. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State how he intends to discharge that responsibility. SV tries to pretend that it is taking a lot of responsibility not to take responsibility, while I think that giving a mandate to someone, to take that responsibility, is actually taking responsibility. Then the question is, how do you show that responsibility? What kind of process is set up to enable an enterprise to change, and which also allows other parts of the enterprise not to use this as a deposit to lay down so many jobs in a municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1291	It's almost an unreal debate, I have to say. We're dealing with simplification along many lines. We have in Ot.prp. No 61 for 2002-2003 presented some proposals that have the common aim of facilitating Norwegian business and to reduce costs for Norwegian business. My starting point has been how we can reduce the cost of Norwegian business through the registrations that they are required to enter in the Brønnøsund registers. We do this in many ways to drive as efficiently as possible. In addition, I have a long-term ambition that we will get into the situation, as the representative Hedstrøm said, that the revenues generated in the Brønn Island Health Registers will cover the costs of operating the Brønn Island Health Registers. There shall be no taxation of Norwegian business. Then you have to attack this along many lines. And it would be very strange if it were to be so that you shouldn't be able to do simplification, because at first it would be able to go out on someone. It is clear that at the moment you went over from using ink houses to using a ballpoint pen, it went beyond those who produced ink houses. When paper has been placed to communicate what is to be communicated to the Norwegian business community, it could go beyond printers, and it could go beyond paper producers. When the journalists started writing directly on the PC, instead of having people doing this in lead, of course, it went out on someone. I have an impression all the time, I feel, from a combined Norwegian business life in 434 municipalities, which goes on: How can we simplify? My task, as I have read The Stortinget, is to maximise the number of jobs that can be removed in Norwegian business when it comes to reporting. I did not achieve my goal of reducing by 100 years of work in 2002 – I think we got into 96 years of work. It's not like these 96 people are now walking around waiting for the community holiday to begin. No, they're at work. Of course they are! I have not understood that Stortinget wants us to have a simpler Norway instead, as one could get the understanding from the Workers' Party, that we now have to make it as complicated as possible, so that as much as possible we can sit and work with tasks that are strictly not necessary, but that all taxpayers and Norwegian businesses have to pay. And it's totally wrong what the SV representative said, and so is Enoxen, when it comes to transferring jobs and jobs to the public. It is not the case that one job is needed to do this. You stop advertising in Norwegian light sheets. It does not transfer jobs anywhere. You have this on an electronic system, where, as I write in the proposition, you have a one-off cost of NOK 400,000. Of course, I understand employees in any company that loses the job. I understand the rapporteur in any municipality that has a company where someone loses the job. I myself have been rapporteur in a municipality where someone lost their job. But we, who are trying to have a principle approach to this, create a cost-effective public sector that is to impose minimum costs on Norwegian taxpayers and Norwegian companies, must not use 90 pst. of the time to what the matter is not really about, because the matter is about, as I said, how we should make simplifications. In the hearings we had, all Norwegian business organisations thought this was a brilliant idea. That's what we're doing. Then the Minister of Finance has been in Narvik and has given the «death kiss» to which Mr. Enoxen referred, and to which I did not so happen. I'm not going to comment on that. But that the company is brilliant, I don't doubt. That's not the reason why we might stop using the printer, but it's to save 34 million. kr. Then I fully understand that the implementation of this will have some practical consequences for an enterprise. I will not be unreasonable in terms of a transitional arrangement, but will take measures that will minimise the pain. There is no doubt about this. I expect that it will be about both one and a half years of transition to get these things done. There shall be no talk of cutting off a umbilical cord overnight, and that one shall not be able to have time to surround himself. I think it will definitely be possible to hit two flies in one taste. The companies will have the opportunity to change, and we will have a more competitive Norwegian business, which will pay a lower cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1313	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 986]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1329	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 991]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1345	Ot. pp. No 90 for 2002-2003 provides a proposal for a new law to ensure the necessary legal basis for the State to take on property positions from municipalities and municipal eight companies in line with the principles underlying the treatment of St.prp by the Stortinge. No 1st@item: As a result, a number of tasks currently carried out by municipal and inter-municipal food surveillance authorities will be transferred to the State by the Food Authority from 1 January 2004. There's more concrete talk about food surveillance, which is today a municipal responsibility, including the supervision of drinking water food supervision and meat inspection, which is now a state responsibility but is carried out by municipal and inter-municipal food supervision under the delegated authority of the SNT, When it relates to the economic data, it will have three main elements: the transfer of personnel assigned to the tasks entrusted to the State to assume the transfer of ownership elements provided for in order to meet the duties to be assumed by the State in respect of operating expenses; Ein will apply the rules for the transfer of enterprises under the Working Environment Act for the transfer of personnel from municipalities and municipal eight companies to the Food Authority. In relation to ownership, it shall, as a general principle, be assumed that the State has the right and the obligation to take over ownership of the property positions that will be used to meet the tasks to be taken over by the State. This applies to rights or obligations under different types of agreements to be transferred to the State, as long as they are mainly linked to the tasks assumed by the State. It will also be the case that the State is not obliged to provide specific evidence of the property positions taken over by the State, but that the financial declaration is to be made by attaching its liabilities and other obligations to the assets taken over to the State. Where the financial account is payable, this shall be after negotiation and the number of annual works to be carried over from the municipalities of the State shall be included in the financial statement. Agreements on annual work frameworks between the parties, or decisions on such arrangements in the event of a dispute, shall not be able to weaken the rights of individual employees under the provisions of the Environmental Protection Act concerning the transfer of activities. In the case of the dispute resolution proposal, the Committee agrees that an independent denominator will be able to guarantee the legitimacy of the decisions taken in the cases where disputes arise. At the same time, we are concerned that the financial statement is implemented without undue use of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1377	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 992]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1393	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines of reply following the speeches by the main speakers of each party group and five lines of response following contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Ursula Evje, who is given the floor instead of the rapporteur, Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1406	Ot. pp. No 67 concerns changes to the Training Act with the sub-title ‘Regarding greater local freedom of action in initial training’, a title that tells that this concerns the municipality as owner and not the user of the offer. The case deals with several matters. Proposals for the organisation of training in vocational education and training receive broad support. These include opening up a larger part of the training to the enterprise and switching between the enterprise and the school. The proposed amendment of the law to include State grants for the school leisure scheme in the framework grant is a follow-up to previous decisions to implement such a change from 1 August 2003. Disagreed or not – there has been no rematch here, even if the parties highlight their views on funding and guidelines for the SFO. Questions about school management and principal's requirements are also addressed. There were both clear and clearly different views in the Committee's proceedings. The Ministry's letter of consultation proposed further requirements for professional, pedagogical and administrative management, but called for the lifting of the formal requirements of competence that are now required to be fulfilled in order to become the principal. The proposal has been met with many objections. Following the consultation round, the Government has therefore made proposals to address these objections. Training at school shall be conducted by a principal and shall remain confidential to day-to-day operations. The joint principal of several schools will be possible, but limited. I leave to the parties myself to discuss their differing views on school management and headmaster's requirements. The main question in this case concerns the organisation of pupils in groups. The Training Act § 8-1 even § 8-4 has rules on how many students there can be in different classes. The Government proposes that detailed rules be replaced by provisions for the organisation to take place in a manner which is pedagogical and safety sound. The legal provisions of the current Training Act are a resource assurance rule. Many of the hearing parties have underlined this, both in written consultations with the ministry and in oral consultations with the Committee. The hearing parties who are in favour of the change also stress that the change should not be used as a resource cut tool. This shall not be a blank authorisation for large-scale schoolcuts in Norwegian municipalities. In the Committee there is broad agreement that increased flexibility in resource use is good and there is broad consensus that the provisions on class divisions should be repealed. There is also a broad consensus on the need for – and emphasis on – protective measures. However, there are differing views on how such a hedge can and should be implemented. The government parties, together with SV, have found a solution that they seem to be well satisfied with. The Progress Party has a hedging solution linked to the entry into force of the Act. The Workers' Party specifically asks that the current § 8 be provisionally maintained. I am going to deal with the view of the Advance Party in this matter. Let me again underline that the Progress Party is positive in changing the legal text that opens up for more flexible resource use and larger management rooms for school owners and school managers. However, the Progress Party recommends that, pending the entry into force of the new law for the Storting, two important school cases have been dealt with here: the resource notification and the new report from the Quality Committee, which was presented on 5 June 2003. From the Progress Party, it is important to stress that we are committed to seeing these two important issues in the context of this legislative change, in order to ensure an elucidating and profound description of the quality of education. Such clarification and clarification of ‘pedagogically sound’ and ‘safe’ is necessary in the opinion of the Progress Party in order to safeguard the interests of pupils and trainees. A clarification and clarification of the policies, frameworks and security measures to provide students with good quality teaching and learning outcomes is important for two main reasons: one reason is to be able to provide parents and students with insights into the organisation and use of resources. The second reason is to provide the supervisory authority with a basis for the exercise of ‘upstream’ supervision. The progress party also points to the following: In our opinion, the urgent work on this matter is unnecessary, because both today's law and the extensive experimentation that characterises Norwegian school clearly give reason that students can also be organized in other ways than in classes. Therefore, it is regrettable that parents and students’ interests are set aside for unnecessary haste. Where speed is more important than content, savings considerations may be more important than quality considerations. The progress batch is subject to increased speed limits in road traffic. If we use such a picture in this case, it becomes like replacing a plate with a 50 km speed limitation with a sign where everyone is encouraged to drive very considerately. Finally, I would like to say that the Progress Party is going to vote in favour of its own proposals, because the proposals we under the vote form a majority for and against other proposals. I am addressing the proposals on which we are co-sponsors, and the proposals on which we stand alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1451	The representative of Ursula Evje has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1456	The Progress Party has a proposal here that I would like to start with, and that is the proposal that comes into force in the law. I have to ask the representative of the Progress Party: does that mean that the law will be reviewed after these prerequisites have been implemented? Or does that mean that the date of entry into force is to be set in relation to their proposals? Furthermore, in its comments, the Progress Party has underlined that an oversight system should actively accompany school owners who achieve poor results in the quality assessment. And then the Progress Party says that they want sanctions to be established, sanctions against those schools that don't get better results in the quality assessment. I would ask the Progress Party to clarify what is concretely meant by sanctions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1463	The representative Nielsen first asked a question about our proposal relating to the entry into force of the law. As far as I can see, the Labour Party has an almost identical proposal, and I think we feel relatively similar to our proposals, that is, that when we have the full and complete overview of what this means, the majority decision of the law will come into force – not sooner or later. As far as the supervisory authority is concerned, it is precisely what we have said for a very long time, and as we also said in the previous case we discussed here in Stortinget, that for us it was right to get a coherent quality control of the entire education chain from six-year-olds to doctoral students. Today, we have adopted a higher education supervisory body, but basic education can be just as poor as it wants to be, because there is no control over it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1470	I have to say that I have been somewhat confused about what the Progress Party has really meant in terms of the class division, and I just have to complain, but that confusion has increased after the representative Evje's response to the reply from Eva M. Nielsen. I see great differences in the proposals of the Labour Party and the proposals of the Progress Party, so my question to Ursula Evje is: does the Progress Party really want to give this educational freedom to the schools? They say they want to vote to cancel the class division now, but they won't put it into effect, and it says in one of the proposals that they want a separate bill to come up. Does not the Progress Party trust that each school owner can make good use of this educational freedom? And to keep me in the traffic picture: the Progress Party is doing here, is really driving on both sides of the road at the same time. On the one hand they drive within the speed limits, and on the other hand they scratch.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1477	I got a question about whether we didn't want to fulfill the promise of pedagogical freedom. We'd love to, but first we want to know what's in this word. We want first a common understanding, a definition of what this is. Because without a common understanding, we don't know if we mean the same thing, and very often it turns out, so late as with the dog law, that you don't even mean what you say, and what you do. We want for the sake of children – the future of this country is the children of today – that we have a common understanding and can attach a quality assessment to it. And when it comes to driving on both sides of the road: this road is so narrow that we're probably going to have to use both the roadways and the whole roadway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1486	The roadways of the party of progress are unanswerable. When we dealt with this matter, there was a proposal to postpone it, precisely because we were going to get better time. Ursula Evje made it a major point that this is urgent, that this is too fast. But it was precisely the Progress Party that went through that we were going to deal with this matter so quickly, in the way we have now done. That's why it's a little bit difficult to figure out what their points are. There had been a majority to postpone the case, so that we had had more time to discuss it and to see it in conjunction with some other issues. I also have to try to find out what is in the proposals of the Progress Party on postponement and implementation. Through their proposal, the Progress Party has raised some doubts, as they have gone out in a press release that they are proposing to postpone the matter. But there is no postponement proposal available here. Following this proposal, a measure is adopted, but implementation will take place at a later stage. It's very important that we make that clear. A decision to cut the split, cut the split as a resource base, and then we're going to implement it at a later stage, because we're going to adopt that very concretely. My question to Ursula Evje is: Is that a correct opinion? We have to do that right here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1493	To the representative of Rikham's introduction that the roadways of the Advance Party are unanswerable, I would like to reiterate by saying that by themselves you may know others. We'll get back to that in the next case. So over to the haste, which I used part of the post to score. Yeah, that's right. This has been discussed in the committee up to several times, we have actually also voted on it twice, and the Progress Party came to the conclusion that we would nevertheless attend and discuss the matter. Why should it be so difficult to understand this with the entry into force, if you see it in connection with our proposal: ‘The Government asks the Government to present its own case for the organisation of recognition and supervision of all primary and secondary schools.’ Unfortunately, this proposal does not appear to have a majority. It's actually pretty clear to us, even though SV has a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1506	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1509	It is not easy to be engaged parents today. The media has given us an impression of a school that is in decline. Political management is doing its job to consolidate the impression: reading and writing difficulties that are not detected, bullying, teachers who are unable to correct, or who do not have sufficient education Let's say, the picture of the state school situation is diverse. The survey shows good and bad results. Public school is good, but it's not good enough! We're not going to be satisfied! Education policy is mostly about giving each one a chance to reach out for their goals, to realise their potential and to realize their dreams for the future. But education policy is also about taking responsibility. Some give the impression that the joint school, for which the Workers' Party has fought, is based on ensuring equal opportunities for all students through equal training. Training level, it's wrong. On the contrary, one of the main principles of the Workers' Party is to provide pupils with appropriate training. If all students are to be guaranteed equivalent education, they must be treated differently. Only in this way can everyone have an opportunity for learning and personal development. But we need to be even better at using the opportunities that exist to facilitate the training for the individual. According to the Council of State, the teaching groups should not be larger than those which are educationally sound. The response of the working party is that it is important that the school has the opportunity and flexibility to test different trials in order to obtain the best possible training for students. But today the schools have the opportunity to do this. More and more schools, more and more teachers give feedback that they don't realize there's any problem trying. The problem is that schools lack money to get good development going. The proposals of the Clemet Council may give municipalities greater freedom to cut down on the resources of the school. We know that the municipalities are struggling enough as it is to be able to finance the primary tasks. It is important that the school does not become a savings account. The majority's opinion that the class division number should continue to function as a minimum standard, while opening up to basic groups, I see it as inconsistent. The working party's position is that this is not insurance good enough. The class has great value for the community of students, for belonging and social protection. The class shall provide stability to children. The only requirement of the Council of State is that the groups must not be larger than that which is pedagogically sound. What is educationally sound shall be determined locally. That's not good enough. Here I believe that the majority's position that the Government must come back with a concrete statement is not reassuring either. Group education often works well, and certainly represents good learning for many. We are concerned that the children should receive the best follow-up possible at school. We want them to be safe, not bullied, have good school buildings. This is important, and we have to be able to expect that the quality, the content of the school, should be the best. I believe that the class governance system is of great value. It has a close connection with the desire to keep the class, but also because the manager has an important function both professionally and socially, both to parents and to children. The student contact system instead of a class manager may mean losing the function and value of the class as a pooling environment. I have noticed an article by a teacher that I want to quote. He says, "Every teacher in today's school has enormous possibilities for development. There is nothing in the framework that substantially limits the teacher's educational freedom or creativity. I see that Kristin Clement wants to smooth out the differences in student performance. It is about instruments and measures. Some have claimed that the instruments used by the Council of State can lead to the very opposite. At the moment that poor results are put in focus, without helping the school, the parents and the students to deal with the situation and move on, you may be getting worse. Once again, I want to clarify that we could see all the proposals in context and treat them together, as a whole, then we would get a better school. I refer to the proposal that the Labour Party has made, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1539	The representative has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1544	The working party's belief in central governance and central guidance is well known in many contexts, and it is also reflected in this case. The Labour Party is opposed to giving individual schools and colleges, vice-presidents and management other than those at school, local freedom of action. Does the Labour Party not believe that local authorities, teachers and school leaders will do the best for the school? Does not the Workers' Party believe that those who run the local school are also best placed to organise the school, so that it provides the best learning outcomes? And what about this bill that prevents you from keeping the class, if that's what you want locally and think is the best thing for the students and for the school community as a whole? What's the obstacle to keeping the class?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1549	It surprises me that the representative Voie asked what was wrong with keeping the class. It is then clear in the setting that there is nothing to prevent it, and the Workers' Party has not opposed it either, because we want to keep the class. Furthermore, I would like to say about the principal's competence: the principal should be an adviser, he or she should be a tutor to the teachers. And it's important that you have a headmaster at the school, who knows the subject, and who has teaching skills. This is the educational competence of the Workers' Party. If you take away the teaching skills, it's like sending Nils Johan Semb to train the football team without him playing the field once. That's wrong. The principal must have teaching skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1556	I am somewhat surprised at Eva Nielsen's interpretation of the proposals for decisions that exist. This is the first time that the Storing explicitly says something about the resource framework. At least I don't remember being told anything about it before, at least it's not adopted before. Now, we're going to decide quite specifically that the resource frameworks are to be linked like this and so on, and that is to be the minimum. And then Eva Nielsen says it's now easier to cut down. I can't understand. In the past, the resources have been indirectly linked to other provisions. Now we're explicitly saying what the resources are going to be. What makes the municipalities now able to cut down more easily than they have had the opportunity to do in the past? I'm going to venture the opposite statement, that now it's simply not possible. Now the county officials and the education directors can go out into the municipalities and say: Look at what the Stortinget has decided in a concrete, explicit decision, below which you cannot go! What makes it easier? I just don't understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1561	What Mr. Rikvam says here is not right. For it has been said that the classification standard should be a resource allocation standard until it has been clarified with pedagogical security and safety measures. What is contained in the majority proposal, on which SV is involved, is only a short-term scheme, until the definitions have been defined. And that's how we think it's not good enough, because we want long-term funding and a solid system for the Norwegian primary school. Resource frameworks are what municipalities should govern, according to which all school owners have to govern. That's why it's so sad that the Storting today really says that we think it should be like this for a few months, and then we're going to come back to the autumn, maybe next spring, in connection with the quality selection setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1566	Arguing against resolving the classification number for resource purposes is possible. But arguing against it on a pedagogical basis seems to me to be more doubtful. I experienced that Eva Nielsen actually did the last thing. And then one has to look at what the majority wants to replace this with. We still want to maintain teacher contact, a permanent teacher or a student contact, which will take care of social pedagogical work, counselling and follow-up. The student should continue to belong to a basic group, providing both social, social and a safe and stable learning environment — the same functions as today’s class. I wonder: is the main argument for the Workers' Party resources, and not the pedagogical?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1573	That's right what Lyngstad says, that the class division is important for the Workers' Party, because it's the resource allocation standard that makes the school owners know how much money they can spend at primary school in their municipality. If we go away from such a norm before we get something that's better, in place, we're doing Norwegian school a big wrong. Lyng site tries to polemise with student contact and class board. He must be aware that when the Workers' Party has as its general principle that the class should exist as today – we are to have a class division – such a position will have consequences, consequences, for the other paragraphs of the law. We do not have a better system of financing Norwegian primary schools today than through the class-sharing rule, and then you should not throw it on the boat until we have seen a proper model – a better solution than the one contained in the majority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1580	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1583	A better school — increasing quality in school — is an important objective for the Right. If successful, organisational changes must be made to allow schools greater freedom of action and space for action. This matter is a point, an important point, in this work, and I note with great satisfaction that the Government's proposal is supported by the majority in this Chamber. The proposition contains four elements, and I'm going to focus on two of them. With regard to the other two, I would just like to point out briefly that the proposal on the school leave scheme is a follow-up to decisions relating to the municipal economic proposition for 2003, and the proposal on vocational training is a follow-up to the decision of April last year in relation to a Document No. Eight proposals. As far as the latter is concerned, the right and other government parties are included in the majority proposing that the county council be free to add the approval authority for a learning contract or training contract to the body most appropriate from local circumstances. I would like to point out that the majority requires the involvement of the social partners in the body. It is the principle of great local freedom of action that makes us support this proposal. I'll spend the rest of the time on the other elements. That there's now a majority to raise the class division, is very happy. Centrally given provisions have been over-directed and over-directed by the activities of individual schools. This has hindered greater diversity in public schools, and there has been very restrictive both educational and organisational. Today's decision will allow for great educational and organisational freedom for each school. In fact, this should be hailed around the individual classrooms. I do not expect the big wave to be taken, but it should have been taken. The resistance to removing the divide is justified by the fact that the school will, or may be, be drained for resources. That fear is without basis in relation to the clear assurances and formulations contained in the proposition. This is now reinforced and deepened in the majority comments. This has been necessary to make it clear that this is not, should not be and will not be a saving measure for municipalities. It is not, of course, as Eva Nielsen said, that ensuring resources is linked to deepening the concepts of ‘pedagogically sound’ and ‘safe’. No, it is tied to the message that will come from the Government regarding the Quality Selection option. I have no faith that the municipalities would have used this as a saving measure for the school, because the school is a high priority area in the municipalities. But with the assurances contained in the majority observations and the proposal proposed by the majority, the last remainder of doubt should have been removed. Therefore, the resistance to the removal of the classification division figure is without justification. In addition, when it is emphasised that the basic groups are to be pedagogical and safe, the fear that students will lose their social ties becomes unfounded. Removing the class division gives schools great freedom while ensuring the allocation of resources. It's good for the schools, not least it's good for the students. With regard to the changes that need to be made to the law by removing the classification division number, Right supports the proposals made in the proposition. We see that we will be minorityd on this point, and we will therefore vote subsidiaryly for the majority proposal under II when it comes to voting. Finally, school management and competence requirements for the Vice-Chancellor. We are pleased with the opening which is now due to the fact that people who lack approved education for addition to the teaching position can be added as principal. This is an important opening. And it's actually so that there are proms that are very skilled trainers, even though they haven't played high-level football. Real skills can be a good starting point for becoming a skilled head of school, both in relation to pedagogics and management. At the same time, the majority are clear that formal pedagogical competence is important, but in my view, it is of great importance that we now have the opportunity to open up so that real competence can also provide the opportunity to become a principal at a school. The majority also emphasise the importance of schoolleader education, and in this respect I would like to refer to the debate on the notification of teacher education a year ago, where the need for a schoolleader education – a principal school – was stressed. School owners are now given the opportunity to assess on a broader basis applicants for principal positions, and may be more likely to add according to local needs and wishes. At this point, too, there is greater local freedom of action. This too should be applauded in classrooms and in the individual municipalities. I am very pleased with the opening that is coming, both as a politician and actually from my background as a principal in high school. Today’s decision is a step further to give the school, the individual school, opportunities to make the best use of their own resources and in relation to their own needs. It gives you a better school, a better school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1603	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1606	We hear that the Right is trying to make the issue of removing the divide into a matter of trust for our local politicians. The right-hand side knows that reality is different in Municipality-Norway. At least we see daily letters of readers and articles that describe a situation where there are cuts and cuts that characterize the picture. The division number is the only kind of minimum standard we have today. And it's not just the Workers' Party that means this. In the round of consultations held by the Ministry, we have heard that all the heavy hearing bodies are of the same opinion. At the end of the day, I can't stand myself: we hear the representative Voie say here today that the Workers' Party is too centralized. But I would say that also the Right is, because there is something that these two things we have to deal with today show, it is that the Right is willing to use the State to ensure what is important to them. With regard to the payment of the State subsidy to private schools, the State is important to have. One does not have the same trust in the municipalities. This is inconsistent.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1615	In the case of the fresh air, maybe we can come back to that later. But to characterize giving educational freedom to the individual school as ‘central management’ seems to me to be quite well done. I think it is admirable to be able to interpret the freedom of the individual municipality and school to organise it as ‘central management’. It's quite impressive. We have confidence in local politicians, and it is clear that one could want more money for school and more money for many other things. My opinion is that the municipalities prioritize the school. What is important is that they now have the freedom to use the large resources that come to school, in a way that is best suited to their own needs and desires. It gives this change in the class division room for. That is why it trusts local politicians. It's the opposite of central government, it's increasing the local space for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1622	The representative Olsen, on behalf of the Right, had a reference to entry into force as a quality assurance of the law in relation to the individual child. Now I want to ask the Right: what is the reason that the Right is talking about quality and freedom, but does not regard quality as important enough to meet the high quality requirements of children in training, with their own proposals on objective and verifiable quality systems and controls?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1627	I might think it's a little bit incredible that it's said that the right is just talking about quality. If there is something that has been happening and has characterized the year and a half of Clemet State Council has been in the department, there are a number of measures that have just improved the quality of the school. This has been something more than talking. That is the opposite of what has really been criticised, namely that there have been too many proposals too quickly – it has still been called for one to postpone proposals, to postpone treatment, because one should see things in what is called ‘a context’. So this has not been talk, these have been concrete measures. Specific decisions have been taken, put in place concrete instruments, to really improve quality. I believe that we have absolutely nothing to be ashamed of. Here it's done incredibly much, much more than talking.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1634	I will first commend the government parties for their willingness to negotiate. In this case I feel that SV has received both bag and bag, and then the government parties have got in the bag. And that's what it's going to be in different contexts. We've secured greater local freedom, we've been involved in securing an exciting public school, which is the best bologgey against private schools, with which we're now going to continue working. In addition, we have ensured the framework of resources, which we have been concerned about, cf. document No The 8 that we had in the past. For that reason, I would like to pay tribute to the government because they've been on this particular piece. But I have a question for the representative Jan Olav Olsen. There has been some doubt about the understanding of the decision on the resource framework. I assume that he interprets it in the same way as I do, that a decision here in Stortingen stands until we make a new decision, and a possible new decision will only be taken in relation to the major messages that we will be discussing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1641	The last representative that Rikvam picked up, I can confirm. What I tried to say by referring to Eva M. Nielsen's representative was that the class division number should be there as a minimum level. It is not linked to this with ‘pedagogical defence’ and ‘security defence’, but it is linked to the government’s assessment of different grant models when we are informed of the suspension of the Quality Committee. I think it was a nice line. It is clear that the government parties are interested in negotiating, and we would like to negotiate when we have – I kept saying – reasonable counterparties. It is nice to hear that SV seems to have got in the bag and bag. If it's the case that the government parties just got in the bag, I'd say this is an awfully big bag, and it's very rich in content. I think we have to say that based on what is now in the setting, and what will be adopted, the government parties are well pleased with the content and size of their bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-12-lower.ana.ud1381e1650	The cord shift is over. The scheduled time for the morning meeting will be immediately available. The President will propose that the meeting be closed and that a new meeting be held at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox - It's a note.
