ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11.ana.ud1351e42	Document No 8:129 suggests some concrete measures aimed at economic crime and unethical behaviour in business. This is an important theme. It is of great importance to Norway, which has a small, open economy, that it can be trusted that industry, and in particular the financial sector, practice its activities in accordance with high ethical standards. We've seen examples of the opposite in recent years. This has raised a debate related to the credibility of accounts, the independence of auditors and possible conflicts of interest in the financial sector. Recently, large international Norwegian companies have also been accused of, and widely admitted, cases of corruption and price cooperation. It is obvious that Norway, which is also not a member of the EU, is particularly dependent on confidence in the international market. International actors must be able to rely on Norwegian accounts, and a high ethical standard must be expected in meeting Norwegian businesses. The Financial Committee therefore considers it important that Norway has a modern and internationally competitive regulatory framework to prevent economic crime and unethical behaviour. The Committee considers that it is of great importance for value creation and employment that the control mechanisms of business operate effectively and that financial market and audit actors provide services in accordance with high ethical and commercial standards. Document No 8:129 contains five specific individual proposals. The Ministry of Finance has made a relatively detailed comment on the proposals by letter to the Committee attached to the opinion. All the proposals addressed are to be assessed in some form within the ministry or within the credit supervision, with the exception of proposal No. 5, which is considered to be governed by the applicable law. In most areas, there are also processes in international legislation that are closely followed up by Norwegian authorities. The majority of the Committee is satisfied that the Ministry is actively working on several fronts to update and improve the legislation, based on both experience from Norway and international developments. As regards the specific proposals in the case, therefore, the majority refers to the letter from the Ministry and concludes that much of the ongoing work in the Ministry concerns the issues raised. It is therefore natural for the Stortinget to deal with any legislative amendment when it is promoted appropriately by the Ministry. The majority of the Committee therefore proposes that the matter be annexed to the minutes. However, I would like to comment on some of the proposals in more detail. With regard to the proposal for a ban on the provision of financial or legal advice to the same company by the external auditor of large companies, the majority of such advice is currently limited to the provision that such advice should not be appropriate to affect or raise doubts as to the independence and objectivity of the auditor. In addition, the Committee points out that there is a long tradition of the statutory auditor providing advice to audit clients based on good competence in relation to the undertaking. This is an important offer for small and medium-sized companies and companies in the start-up phase. But such advice is probably also a practical offer for larger enterprises. In this context, the majority of the Committee considers that an important consideration in the further development of legislation is not to prevent the provision of consultancy services that currently operate well for businesses. In addition, the majority of the department meets the assessment of the credit supervision report by the main audit firms in winter 2002 to 2003. The majority share the Ministry's view that it makes sense to consider more closely the issue of auditor independence when the modernisation of the 8th Company Law Directive in the EU on this issue has been completed. The proposal to impose an auditor's obligation to provide information on suspicious situations in the undertakings with which they are dealing is another current issue addressed in Document No. The 8th proposal. Ecokrim recently sent a letter to the Ministry proposing to amend the statutory audit act in order to impose on the statutory auditor a notification obligation in the event of suspicion of criminal offences arising from audit missions or other services. Today there is only one right for the auditor to report such suspicions. The Ministry has asked the Credit Authority for an assessment of this and aims to ensure that proposals for amendment of the Accounting Act will be sent out at the hearing. It is probably a drastic step for an auditor who is normally bound by professional secrecy, to report a client to Økokrim. It will be easier for both the auditor and the client to deal with this as an obligation rather than a right. The Board of Auditors has also signalled support for the proposal by letter to the Committee. On this basis, the Committee welcomes the intention of the Ministry to consult on the proposal and also demonstrates that such reporting obligations already exist in other parts of the legislation, including: in the Money Laundering Act and the Credit Supervision Act. Document No 8:129 addresses some current and important issues for Norwegian business. Therefore, it is reassuring that the Ministry is actively working on this on several fronts and that the majority of the Financial Committee endorses this work. On this basis, I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11.ana.ud1351e72	The rapporteur has given a good account of the majority's views. I just want to raise the minority proposal from the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. It is a matter of getting the Government to investigate and present a separate case to set up its own stock control, which the Progress Party has also raised on previous occasions. We think it might be interesting and relevant to have it investigated and to have it dealt with in a separate case. I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11.ana.ud1351e81	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestion she herself made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11.ana.ud1351e84	Document No 8:129 contains five proposals that add up to five very important debates. The financial scandal in the United States was the triggering cause for the SV to present the proposals we are debating today, because we believed that the developments that led to the scandals that hit companies like WorldCom, Enron, Global Crossing, etc., and that had their share of responsibility for the American exchange bubble that blew up at the end of the 1990s could also make itself felt elsewhere and also be a threat to Norwegian business and Norwegian economy. And in the last few months, we've seen more examples of the fact that the state of Norwegian business is not as virgin as someone likes to believe. We have an open economy with companies operating in increasingly interconnected global markets. Deregulation of trade and capital flows increases competitive pressure and pressures profit margins in companies around the world. It is a development that lowers the threshold both for unethical behaviour and for economic crime. The same trend has stimulated a strong growth in the volume of stock exchange and foreign exchange trade, which gives the economy more and more speculative insights and opens up adventurous opportunities for those who know how to enrich themselves in this market. It is not always the case that what benefits from the stock exchange is the same as productive business and society, for the rest, is earned. Therefore, these developments need to be met with regulations that facilitate the reduction of financial crime and the restriction of speculative activities. The proposals submitted by SV are only one contribution to this. There is a need for a wide-ranging political debate and action across a wide range of areas. Against this background, we are pleased that both the Committee's suspension and the Finance Minister's letter to the Committee of 9 October show the willingness to take such debates and to discuss possible measures. We are particularly pleased that the Minister of Finance signals that he will send out a proposal on reporting obligations for auditors at the hearing. We also note that both Ecokrim and the auditors themselves are in favour of such a proposal, and we also expect a proposition from the Minister of Finance to make such a change in the law. Nor do we bring our proposal that all option obligations should be stated in a company's accounts, to voting today. Like the rest of the committee, we will await the hearing of the Accounting Act Committee on the evaluation of the Accounting Act and look forward to the Government submitting a proposal on it. On the other hand, SV is promoting three proposals today. We do that because we want to go further and go faster than the committee otherwise in relation to these issues. We believe that the signals given by the Minister of Finance in relation to these proposals are too cautious. They testify to over-belief in discretionary measures on the one hand and a tendency to be overly concerned with following EU legislation on the other. Fortunately, Norway is still not prohibited from going beyond the EU. In these kinds of cases, we should take the measure of being a country of first importance. We who are from Bergen know that it is better to be a fan than to be a pack of foxes! I would like to take a quick look at the three proposals that we are making for voting today. Firstly, we propose a ban on external auditors for large companies providing financial or legal advice to the same company. The need for clearer legislation here has been made clear through the work of the Credit Authority and their thematic supervision, but not least through disclosures recently made by the Nations newspaper that Statkraft has used the same company for both external and internal audits. That case, according to the Nations, is a breach of today's legislation, but it reveals that there are grey zones and significant confusion among the companies to which the legislation applies. When entrusted to the companies themselves to assess what might go beyond the objectivity of the auditor, there may be consequences. A ban on large companies believes that we need to be able to implement without creating greater practical difficulties. I would like to point out that, in the United Nations on 20 October of this year in connection with the Statkraft detection, Høre's nutritionist, Leif Frode Onarheim, underlined: ‘I think the Stortinget will clarify that it is appropriate to ensure that two different bodies have to address internal and external audits.’ SV fully agrees with Onarheim, and we wish that the committee had given a clearer clarification of this today. Secondly, we would like to stress that a company that carries out corporate business for a company should not at the same time provide analyses of the same company. The stock market is a market that is highly vulnerable to manipulation by actors that may have better access to information than other actors. It is often very difficult to prove what is behind the price development of a share. Today, it is to a large extent the same companies that dominate the secondary market, which are also the largest in issues and stock market introductions. The fact that the information barrier operated too poorly internally in such companies was one of the reasons for the rapid growth of the global exchange bubble in the late 1990s. Thirdly and lastly, we propose to reverse the burden of proof in the event of a suspicion of serious financial crime. Here the Minister of Finance referred in his letter to Section 34a of the Penal Code. However, there is a paragraph that has a different device than what is in our proposal. The current provision addresses situations in which a convicted person is subject to the reverse burden of proof that values which he possesses are legally acquired. The intention of our proposal is to be able to apply the same principle in cases where there is a suspicion of serious financial crime. We believe that in such cases it would be natural to require that you can prove that larger values that you own have been earned through legal activities. This is a proposal which is becoming increasingly apparent in the international debate on corruption and money laundering, and which we are disappointed that the Committee does not wish to enter into a more detailed debate around it. With this, I would like to address the suggestions that SV has made in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11.ana.ud1351e117	The representative, Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken, has taken up the suggestions he himself made. The President has some doubts about the parliamentary status of the term 'freight ticks', but he is dubious about it. It is, moreover, the President’s observation as a local expert that most tablers have started out as midwives!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11.ana.ud1351e122	It is positive that SV has promoted this case. Economic crime and unethical behaviour have too much in Norwegian business as well, and it is contagious if it is not done enough. National authorities need to pay more attention, upgrade the law and make it easier for those responsible for controlling and punishing both internally and externally, and ensure that their bodies have the capacity to do their job. Government replies, along with what is mentioned in the credit notification, indicate an increased focus on the themes addressed here. The Centre Party will stress to the Committee as a whole that the ongoing investigations and improvements must be carried out with great force. There are far more themes in this area than what has been included in Document No. The 8 proposal, and I just want to talk about a little bit more than that. Yesterday there was an NTB message entitled ‘More unprofessional in the construction industry than expected’, mentioning a pilot project in which many have participated, also by the State. That was a discouraging result. There are a lot of people who reduce VAT, and it is not least difficult to get an overview of the companies that operate with foreign workers. The construction industry is an industry that strives a lot. The restaurant industry is different. We know a lot about what's happening, and we have to do something about it. The centre party wants to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, the tax office and the customs office within these tasks. In the vote, together with the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, we have pointed out that those who are punished with fines and damages must not have the opportunity to overturn the penalties on others by being able to deduct such amounts from the tax or get them covered by insurance. We should have rules, just like the United States, that prevent such over-execution of responsibility from happening. The same three parties – the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party – have also mentioned the need to investigate whether Norway is now going to have its own stock supervision, as the United States has had for a long time, and as Sweden and Denmark have established in recent years. The question has been raised earlier. A majority of the financial committee has so requested, but the follow-up to the observations of the majority has slowed down. We now think there is a special need to get that case raised, and given that there is now a rise on the stock exchange, it becomes more tempting for small savers to buy shares, and there is a need for that capital to benefit business. Then we must not get into such a situation that some of the small savers find out that they can easily be tricked. A share control shall be able to prevent that. We have experience from other countries to build on. Sweden has recently changed its law so that buying a share is considered to be a consumer purchase when the buyer is a person. This implies that the purchaser has a special legal protection, including, inter alia, a certain withdrawal period. In Denmark, company supervision has recently been established for unlisted shares such as: approves all prospectuses for share subscriptions. This helps to reduce the risk of fraud and facilitates the intervention of fraudsters. We have had some issues in Norway that have alarmed many small shareholders. Part of the preparatory work done in Norway is done by the Board of Directors, which has also brought the Consumer Council into the picture. There is a possibility that this can be linked to the Consumer Council, which then needs to develop a competence and strengthen its staffing in that area. The proposal is about to get such an order figured out. I hope that at the vote today it can become a majority for that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11.ana.ud1351e139	I would like to comment on one of the proposals submitted by SV. Audun Bjørlo Lightbakken has prepared for the substance in this. I would just like to stress the importance of this proposal. What emerged in the United States after the discovery of the Enron and Tyco scandals was mainly that the audit had been too poor. The audit had other and underlying considerations than the audit of the company, allowing economic shrinkage and unrealistic approaches that actually did not reveal crime in this case. The reason was that the companies that revised large companies like Tyco and Enron had more income from consulting the same companies than from auditing. Of course, both for the company, for society and for the shareholders, the audit must be completely unforgivable and independent of the company as such. These are the audit's first bid. Large companies like Arthur Anderson went to the dungeon immediately afterwards, simply because the confidence in the market was non-existent. This company was taken with their pants down. This means that the company went down simply because they were unable to distinguish between what was audit and what was advice. Arthur Anderson had earned more on the advice of Enron than they had done on the audit. Ergo was not the audit good enough, because they were scared to death because at the moment they squeaked away at things they thought were not good, it would mean that the company could lose the lucrative advisory role. In the United States it was extreme, for all of us, hoping it's not so bad in many other places, but that's probably reason to assume that we have elements of the same in Norway as well. If we look at large Norwegian companies, we will see that they have much the same pattern – you have one company that is the main link in both consulting and auditing. There is no reason to assume that there is anything wrong with these. But what Eva Joly did, among other things, has said that there should be a legal firewall, as she puts it, between advice and audit. It's not because you think that something is necessarily wrong, but to prevent something wrong from happening. That's why we have a lot of laws, to be preventative and to be in the forefront and not necessarily in the back. In the opinion of the SV, for the largest Norwegian companies, it will be in the company's own interest, it will be in the shareholders' own interest, and it will be in the society's own interest to have two relationships – one relationship that has revision, and one link that provides financial advice to the company, which is, of course, completely independent of each other. This would have served the board of companies, the shareholders would have earned, the society would have earned, simply because just suspecting that something might be wrong, could have affected the company ruthlessly – just rightfully or unjustly. Just a suspicion that audit and advice are being wasted together will be unfortunate. Fortunately, our law is better than what you have in the United States. However, it is also discretionary in Norway, and discretionary laws tend not to be as strict as they should have been. In this case, we do not manage for the largest companies to see any actual reason why we should not have such a law in Norway. We understand that for small and medium-sized companies, which have a locally based audit, and which would like to receive financial advice from them, it is in a different situation. So we're not trying to make things more difficult for business or small and medium-sized enterprises, at all. We are looking to create a law that will be in the interests of companies and society, and for the major companies, a firewall between auditing and consulting will absolutely serve the shareholders of the company and society the best. We are not negative to what the Minister of Finance writes to us, and we are not negative to many of the intentions of the majority, but we believe that there is enough basis in what we know to go on and make such a law. It would serve the Norwegian community and the companies well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11.ana.ud1351e150	I am pleased that the government's work against economic crime, including money laundering, has broad political support in the Storting. The proposals promoted by SV and their treatment show in many ways that Norway is at the forefront of international action in this area. It is not the case that a speaker was injured to say that the Government has as its principle that Norway should follow the EU. It is another thing to follow the EU, because it is important that legislation that becomes internationally valid is also passed on in Norway, especially because we are talking here about a part of the economy that is most global. It does not help with home-creed solutions, if they do not comply with international legislation. I would also like to say in general that the fact that a breach of today's legislation can even be recorded in Norway should be a little careful to use as a basis to say that today's legislation is not strict enough. The Committee majority has a balanced discussion of the issue of auditor independence and the need for or possibility of further regulatory regulation of the auditor’s role. In conclusion, the majority say: ‘The majority therefore meet the Ministry’s assessment of the Credit Authority’s report and proposals for regulatory assistance, inter alia. on the advice of the auditor, and share the assessment that it is appropriate to carry out such an evaluation once the work on modernisation of the 8th Company Law Directive has been completed in the EU.’;» I would like to stress that the Government aims at a two-stage process in relation to the regulation of the auditor's independence. A first step will be to give a prescription home, such as: may provide the basis for more precise rules on the independence of the statutory auditor. The credit supervision was asked by letter of 29 October to draw up a consultation note on such a regulatory body. This will be sent to the hearing, followed, where appropriate, by the Ministry in the form of a legislative proposal to Odelstinget. In the longer term, a more general assessment of the auditor’s independence will be carried out, including: in the light of the implementation of the 8th Company Law Directive in the EU. I would like to clarify this, because it means, in other words, that progress in this matter is not made dependent on the review of the new directive in the EU, but that we will also implement somewhat more limited national legislation before that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11.ana.ud1351e165	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11.ana.ud1351e173	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11.ana.ud1351e181	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 2-4, from Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party It is voted on by the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to make appropriate proposals to prohibit the external auditor of large companies from providing financial or legal advice to the same company.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to make appropriate proposals to prohibit companies that sell analysis services on the stock market from being entrusted with the task of companies they are analysing’. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests appropriate proposals to be made by the Government to reverse the burden of proof in cases of suspicion of serious financial crime, in order to demonstrate that greater values are earned through legal activity.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-11.ana.ud1351e219	The proposal of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: «The decision asks the Government to investigate and present a separate case concerning the need to establish its own share supervision in order to protect the interests of small shareholders in the share market.»
