ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e82	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e85	On behalf of Arne Braut and myself, I would like to propose a special compensation to the South Trondelag County in connection with the extension of the Regional Hospital in Trondheim. [[RiT]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e90	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 8 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e186	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Right 35 minutes, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 20 minutes each, Center Party 10 minutes, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a change of line of up to five lines, with replies from the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and three lines, with replies from the main speakers of each party group, from parliamentary leaders and from other members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e197	The Financial Committee gave its opinion on the revised budget on 15 June 2003. The purpose of the budget revision is to adjust the budget in relation to changes in the financial framework conditions or to any specific need for changes in the decisions to be taken after the adoption of the ordinary budget. The government has not taken sufficient account of the changes that have actually taken place since Christmas. Since the adoption of the budget, the economy has changed. We have a whole new situation that calls for action, not action paralysis. More and more people are drawing a gloomy picture of the Norwegian economy. Gross domestic product for mainland Norway had a negative growth of 0.6 pst. the first quarter of the year, corresponding to the negative growth of the economy in the last quarter of last year. Thus, the mainland economy is within a travel period, i.e. a deep economic downturn. This is the largest recession recorded since 1988. At the end of 1988, where the unemployment rate was at the current level, i.e. 105 000 persons, increased the unemployment rate by 40000 persons until the end of 1991. The government does not take this crisis seriously. It is pointless to cling to a tight fiscal policy when production falls, and unemployment increases. It is also wrong to collect a falling interest rate as a reward for a sensible economic policy. A new strong interest rate drop now, which is all sorts of reason to believe will come, is of course very desirable for anyone with a lot of debt, but it is a consequence of the bad times, not a result of a healthy economic policy. The Progress Party warned in its 2003 alternative budget that the Norwegian economy would be able to enter the recession, and we recommended a shift in economic policy with significant tax reliefs and increased State real investment. But the tone of both the Government and the Workers' Party was, as it is now, that it was important not to overheat the economy. Now one had the chance to adjust the rate in the revised budget, but that chance will leave both the Government and the Workers' Party. It has very serious consequences for Norwegian enterprises and jobs. The goal should now have been more at work and a restoration of Norwegian value creation. The alternative is that unemployment is accelerating and becoming high for many years, and that business is becoming confused. The Progress Party will not take the chance. Although the position of the Finance Committee has been such a slump, it may appear that agreement has been negotiated between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party. The working party has made itself completely flat for the Government, and has contributed to so-called containment through very many dubious cuts and with very many dubious reasons. To me, the Workers' Party and government parties now appear to be so similar that there are really only cosmetic dividing lines between them. The working party is desperately trying to create the impression that they are the alternative to the Government. But it's in words. In action, the fainting ones are the same. This budgetary audit should have provided a good basis for budgetary negotiations between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party for the autumn. The slumping has resulted in minor adjustments to the adopted budget. The Research Fund will be charged DKK 1 billion in addition to the Government's proposal. Ten million will be granted. SEK to the international marketing of Norway, 50 million. kr for road race protection, some additional appropriations for industrial research, marine innovation programmes, housing aid is increased, funding is granted for the start-up of construction in the university and higher education sectors, the majority secures its previous decision on net pay for offshore vessels, protective vessels receive 10 million. kr, the express buses are maintained, the competence development programme is continued – to mention something. It is also the majority of many and completely incomprehensible cuts. The government parties and the Workers' Party cut in grants to private church buildings, to the police, to the defense, they increase the legal fee and, in a perceptive way, ensure the Workers' Party a majority for increased self-esteem, for which they have criticized others throughout the winter. The real budget winners are illegal refugees in Norway. For some reason, you will not stick to the budget when it comes to receiving refugees and putting your foot down when the number is reached. Then you just give more money. In a number of other budgetary areas, however, strict budgetary discipline is being applied and problems are growing. The Labour Party also had many other non-majority containment proposals: tax and tax reinforcements in flanges, including an increase in the charge on drug shower. This is and will be something entirely on its own. As an argument, the Labour Party claims that the increase in fees will help to reduce the consumption of alcohol among young people, while budgeting for the state fund with increased revenue. It becomes relatively incomprehensible. During the winter, Jens Stoltenberg has been attacked in various media by increased excesses, child-rescue cuts, burial aid, municipal economy, unemployment, etc. – but in the revised version this is forgotten. The sand strike The Workers' Party operates in relation to unemployment, which unfortunately employs very few people. There is little helpful use of words when it is not effective to support proposals that could provide many more jobs. On 16 May, Jens Stoltenberg said to Today's Business that the Workers' Party would propose comprehensive measures to ensure work for all. What are the broad measures proposed by the Workers' Party in the revision? For example, when the Workers' Party: has there been an increase in construction activities to combat unemployment, and what is the link between increasing the appropriations for the construction of higher education institutions and postponing new construction in the defence sector on the one hand? Why does the construction of higher education give employment effect and not the defence's new building? In the nation on June 3rd, it could be read that the Workers' Party was concerned that the majority of the Stortingen have allocated nearly 3 billion kroner less to road construction than was agreed in the National Transport Plan. Why, then, does the Workers' Party not grant funds for road construction? For it is well that it is through budgetary procedure that the actual appropriations are granted. In the newspaper on 22 February, Jens Stoltenberg said that the Workers' Party would never accept increasing unemployment as an instrument of economic policy. But that's exactly what the Workers' Party has now accepted. By keeping the so-called tightness of the budget and being completely passive in relation to the reality we are now facing, all responsibility for monetary policy has actually been left to us, and that means that unemployment must increase. The Working Party cannot run from this. Nor does the Workers' Party have any credibility in terms of local economy. They have indicated the need for additions and have expressed the poor situation in the municipal sector. Nevertheless, the representatives of the Workers' Party are able to say that, after all, this is just a revision of the budget, and then there is nothing to be done. But it's right now, when you're making changes to the budget, that it would be natural to add if you thought it was necessary to give the local government a boost. In the Workers' Party's comments in the suspension, they state that they are aware that the tax revenue of the local government sector has been reduced by DKK 1 billion, they are aware that the financial situation is strained, that they are alerting to the provision of services in many municipalities, and even that there must be consistency between the tasks to be undertaken by municipalities and the money available to municipalities. After this description of poverty, the Workers' Party's conclusion is to grant zero kroner to the municipalities. The Progress Party took the consequences and proposed to compensate for the reduced tax intake in the primary municipalities by NOK 1 billion, but the Workers' Party said no, and instead helps the Government with cuts that are highly questionable. Practices around increased dividends have to end. On Wednesday, there was a heated debate in Stortinget about adding 10 billion kroner. Two days later, the Workers' Party votes to take a significant increase in dividends from the same company. How seriously are you going to take this? This is special, because when you add money to a state company, it happens below the line and does not affect the balance sheet. But if you take the money back from the company, it affects the balance, so that you can balance other expenditure increases with this. The priorities of the Progress Party in the revised budget may be summarised as follows: the refurbishment and start-up of public building projects with DKK 1 billion of redundancy and start-up of agreed road projects, increased maintenance and race protection with over DKK 1.5 billion a nationwide seed fund under the SND with DKK 2 billion for the Research Fund increased framework grants to municipalities reduced reception and increased transport of refugees increased investment in export promotion and international marketing increased allocation to hospitals no to any proposal from the Government to increase ownership 50 million. on mental health protection, a significant strengthening of the police budget and criminal justice, which are in a serious situation increased appropriations for defence and education We're going against the increased dividends from state-owned companies. We have promoted a number of proposals that will boost innovation and contribute to innovation in Norwegian business. We have resisted the temptation to propose reduced taxes, take a number of political battles and make major changes to the state budget. We will come back to that during the autumn budgetary procedure. But we have also taken the economic situation seriously and therefore made proposals that will help to speed up the development of industry, increase activity in the economy and increase employment, by granting it for purposes that we should in any case implement. When the economy of the country went well, it talked at all times about the need for a tight budget. Now that the economy is in recession, we are still talking about the need for a tight budget. I'm having trouble understanding this. I have been reading the budget debates from 1988 to 1992, and it is striking – especially because we were in a quite identical situation as we are now – that no one is learning from the past. Then the debates in Stortinget went just as they are now. It is, in fact, quite strange to read in particular the comments made by the Right in these debates. There, the Right is talking hot and lush about the need for growth in the economy. Much of it's very good reading, but the problem is that it's just in word and not in action. This government is following this up by not taking the economic development seriously. We have repeatedly criticised the current fiscal policy. We have pointed out the need for a system shift where economic growth must be the bearer, not the budgetary balance, the rule of action or so-called tightness. But here you hold on, and despite very alarming warnings from large parts of Norwegian business, which either have to go down, flagged out, permitting, or going to quit. It doesn't create optimism. What had created optimism had been that the Stortinget signaled that it was willing to make an offensive commitment to new business development in Norway. Unfortunately, the government has taken the position that everything called industrial policy and industrial development is being taken care of out there, despite the fact that we are now in a world championship where governments in all other countries are actively promoting business to strengthen their competitiveness and to facilitate conditions through framework conditions and tax changes, precisely so that they are both attracted to more jobs and businesses, and to be the best in the world. Here you won't even define what might be Norway's comparative advantage. Here you will not raise anything, actively focus on anything, or contribute to Norway as a unit in a number of areas – I think it is sad. There should have been a much greater degree of will in this room to take the larger grips, instead of ending up as we are now doing, with sand-pulsing. We are discussing small details and minor adjustments that have no bearing whatsoever on the budgetary balance. It is certainly the case that this debate is going to be marked by a vigorous attempt by the Workers' Party to expound what they have done in the revised. But that's not possible. It is not possible to explain the fact that the government has been completely flattened here. It is not possible to explain everything you have previously announced that you should do something about it, which you have not done anything about. There's no valid argument to say that since this is just a budget audit, we're not going to do anything. That's now you should do something. That's when you should have summed up all the plays and suggestions you've made during the winter, but they've been put into stable side rentals. With this, I address the proposals in the vote that the Progress Party is promoting either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e288	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e293	The aim of the revised budget is to adjust the budget, says the Chairman of the Committee. Yes, it is. And so it is the Progress Party with the government party that is responsible for the budget for the current year, just as they were responsible for the budget for last year, including the exchange from Statkraft and the other state companies. They are responsible for this. So it's almost 100,000 unemployed. The Labour Party is not so busy with the Government, but we are very busy with those who are unemployed, and those who can become unemployed in the future. The party of progress runs out of responsibility for them, and I want to challenge the leader of the committee on what one does for these free people. Last year, the Progress Party was involved in this year's budget and in making it much harder for those who are unemployed. They removed the holiday money and made it harder to get back when you're free, because they raised the limits. All of these things have been taken up by the Labour Party again in proposals in the revised national budget, but the Progress Party does not vote in favour. Why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e300	The Progress Party does not feel any responsibility for the budget. We feel a responsibility for the country's economy and for all the country's unemployed who have no bright future to look forward to. It is quite strange when the Workers' Party is considering the claim that it is those who, through the revised budget, have suggested something to get all the 100,000 unemployed in the job. All proposals from the Workers' Party are activating measures. If the Workers' Party had voted in favour of proposals from the Advance Party on increased funding for road construction, on the maintenance of approved construction projects and on the funding of a national seed fund, there would have been instruments that had created new jobs. I think that all those who receive unemployment benefits now, more than anything else, want a job to go to, not passivating measures, which is the only working party that has been involved in the revision. It's very bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e307	It is quite fascinating to hear the debate between the old and the new Workers' Party. I'm a little uncertain about who is who, and who is most associated with the Government. If you go through the setting, you'll see that the Labour Party and the Advance Party are united about a lot in terms of politics. Otherwise, I register that the committee leader says there is no point in a tight fiscal policy. No, it's meaningful. We see that the government's policy is producing results: the interest rate is falling, and the exchange rate is weakening. The central statistical agency reported yesterday that lower interest rates are speeding up the economy. We're getting messages from more and more companies saying that now it looks lighter. The point is that the economic policy of the Progress Party is a solid experiment, which might have given work to a few more construction workers for a period of time, but the price would be the reduction and deflagration of the competitive sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e314	It's not right, as Jan Tore Sanner claims, that the government has led a successful economic policy, and that's why the interest rate is now falling and the exchange rate is weakening. If you had wanted to read most of the analyses that have been given by the Norwegian economy lately, you would have seen that the interest rate would have fallen anyway, because we're in decline. The economy has negative growth. That means there is no development in the economy. Even the interest rate has to fall, especially because the consumer price index is as low in the same period as it is now. It would have been alarming if interest didn't go down. And of course, it has over time an impact on the price of the crown. But I think it is quite daunting to try to collect it as a benefit that Norwegian economic policy is so good. On the contrary, it lies in stable side rentals, and it does not seem that the government intends to take this situation inwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e319	Siv Jensen has spoken in strong order about the Progress Party's efforts in the fight against unemployment. It is a rhetoric that sounds quite hollow when we see how the Progress Party has put forward concrete proposals that could help with the growing number of long-term unemployed in the country. Proposals for more than one action area, proposals for a guarantee of action, work or training for the long-term unemployed, and not least proposals for a cut of 150 million. kr in labour market measures for people with disabilities – Siv Jensen’s support is last received. The number's speech in this area is crystal clear. We've had an increase of 10 pst. in the number of unemployed disabled persons and yet the Progress Party will reduce efforts to help this group. This is a matter in which we could, if the political will were present, enable Aetat to do a job for a group that needs much action to get back to work. The progress party's new social profile is set in a special doubtful light when SV stays standing alone to go against such a cut. My question to Siv Jensen is, how are you supposed to defend yourself against the 76 000 disabled people who want to get into work?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e324	It is quite right that the Progress Party has not prioritised setting aside funds for labour market measures in the revised budget, that is quite correct. It's because we've chosen to give priority to the effort on the opposite side, that's to increase the ability to create jobs. It helps so little for people's self-respect to have to go on unemployment leave for a permanent period when the prospects of getting a new job fall dramatically. Our main challenge must be to enable the Norwegian economy to grow, creating new optimism about new jobs in Norwegian business. The vast majority of people who are unemployed have one wish, and it's getting a job to go to. And then it's alarming that the majority in this room does not choose to facilitate the creation of the jobs to make people independent of mild gifts from the state. It should also have been significantly more concerned than they have been, and it is a pity that the Progress Party does not get a majority for its proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e329	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e333	The Labour Party believes that the increasing unemployment and the reduction of the competitive sector is the main challenge we are now facing. At the end of May, a total of 87 200 full-time jobseekers were registered. Compared to May last year, registered unemployment has increased by a total of 29 pst. Although the krone price has weakened in the spring, the Statistical Central Bureau expects in its very latest analyses that export companies will continue to have a strained competitive situation. Nor does the Agency ignore the fact that the profitability is now so impaired in many individual companies that they can be put down or flagged out. In other words, freedom will continue to rise. Norway needs a competitive sector of a certain size in order to balance the external economy in the long term. Industrial work places that are being laid down or moved out of the country now will not come back. It is therefore important to prevent the reduction of competitive activities that we see today. Here is the main point: if we are to contribute to the Norwegian industry through the State budget, changes in the budget must be implemented within a responsible framework. This has been emphasised by the Workers' Party in the examination of the revised budget. Unfortunately, we have seen for a long time that the government is leaning back and hoping that the market alone will sort things out. The government does not have an active industrial policy, nor does it have an active labour market policy. The Labour Party believes that active and targeted policies against increasing unemployment are necessary. That is why, in the context of the revision of the budget, we have proposed measures which together cost about DKK 1.2 billion, measures to combat unemployment, strengthen competitive business and create a basis for new jobs. The measures taken by the Party against unemployment are based on three elements. Firstly, the state must actively contribute to the creation of new jobs. The working party spends almost 400 million. on general research and development instruments. We propose, among other things: increased appropriations for research and development contracts and increased appropriations for SND, including: as support for start-ups and new projects, such as industrial design and culture-based business development. Secondly, the Labour Party will help to further develop industries that Norway obviously needs to invest in in the future, but which are now struggling and having problems. It's about offshore, it's about our supplier industry, it's about fishing, it's about the maritime industries, and it's about travel. The working party will consume approximately 450 million. on instruments to these industries in the context of the revision. Nowhere has unemployment increased as much as in the oil and gas supply industry. Increased domestic use of gas could create new opportunities. In order to achieve this, the Workers' Party is in favour of establishing a new State investment company for gas infrastructure. Unfortunately, the majority do not support it. Furthermore, the Workers' Party has proposed granting a State guarantee so that several ferries can be built. It will deliver assignments to shipyards that are today unsolicited. There are great opportunities for increased value creation in the marine sector, including: through growth in the farming industry, in further processing and in new industries based on the use of by-products. We therefore propose support for the SND programme on innovation, conversion and capacity-adjustment in the fishing industry and increased appropriations for the further development of shellfish, durum wheat, bitumen and cod. In order to meet the increasing unemployment in the construction industry, the Workers' Party proposes to increase the lending framework in the House Bank by NOK 2 billion and to accelerate the work of several higher education buildings. We are pleased that our proposals for higher education buildings have a majority. It is also positive that our proposal for more racial protection is adopted. About half of the Workers' Party's action package is adopted today. It means a little more active enterprise policy, even though it is far from enough. The starting point is the government budget adopted by the Government Parties and the Advance Party before Christmas, unfortunately a budget in which the risk of increasing unemployment was overlooked, also by the Chair of the Financial Committee. We have a Minister of Industry who has stood out during the winter with his empty toolbox. Today he gets at least some tools in the box. But then it is asked if he has the necessary professional letters when the job is to be done! The third element of the Workers' Party action package is an active labour market policy. The Workers' Party proposes the creation of 3,000 new job vacancies to increase the competence of employees and thus the possibility of a job. Unfortunately, I have to say that today in Stortinget we are not receiving support for our proposal on several action areas. It is also a great disappointment that the Government and the Advance Party maintain the extensive cuts in the day - to - day arrangements adopted in the harvest. Holiday plugin was removed, waiting days increased and benefit reduced. The working party proposes to fix this again. Unfortunately, however, the majority maintains its unsocial policy towards those who are unemployed. The fight against unemployment is the main element of the Workers' Party's draft revised budget. In addition, we believe that the pensioners must get what they have been promised. When the revised budget was presented, the Minister of Finance made it clear that the pensioners were not to be delayed from last year. Then Bondevik came home and claimed it was a misunderstanding. But the money was not in place in the government budget. New proposals had to be made to cover the necessary adjustment in pensions. A strange misunderstanding! The working party has been quite crystal clear that the pensioners would get what they were promised, and therefore in the revised budget we have also spent money to cover the growth of the basic amount. The government chose to reverse several issues adopted by the majority of the population. Retirement-stopping, net pay arrangements for offshore seafarers, were concerned with housing support for families with high electricity costs. Prime Minister and Minister of Finance have repeatedly been in the media, calling this irresponsible decision. The government, through the review of the revised budget, has lost all its rematches. Now the pensioners get what they were promised, the housing allowance is adopted and the net pay scheme for the offshore fleet is the same. And this is adopted within the framework of responsibility. The accusations of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance against the Storting were groundless. It shows the budgetary position. The budget that we are revising in the Grand Duchy today has been adopted by the votes of the Progress Party. It is, therefore, the Progress Party – believe it or not, after listening to the committee leader for 15 minutes – that has provided a majority for an economic approach that has given rise to a sharp increase in unemployment, cut daily allowances and too few action places. The Progress Party has voted in favour of a municipal economy that leads to the closure of schools and the cutback in the care of the elderly. Now the Progress Party should be responsible for revising the budget for which they voted. But in a familiar way, they run from responsibility and from the consequences of their own policies. Instead, they attack the Workers' Party in order not to do enough. This cannot be taken seriously. The representative, Siv Jensen, has confirmed exactly this for 15 minutes in the pulpit. At the same time, the Chairman of the Committee has fully confirmed the major fundamental problem of the Government. Having its parliamentary basis in the Progress Party and being exposed to such fundamental unforeseeableness as the representative Siv Jensen has presented today may perhaps take the night sleep from more people in the government quarter, I believe, than the Minister of Finance. It is once again absolutely necessary, especially after hearing the statement by the representative Siv Jensen, to remind everyone that the Progress Party has voted in favour of this year's budget. There are other major issues that have also received attention in the public debate over the past few weeks and days. I'm thinking in particular about what's going on in the health sector. During the last few days, the Minister for Health has held several business meetings, requiring conditions that must be in place for regional health businesses to implement the relevant structural change decisions we know. This applies, inter alia, to: requirements for ambulance services, a proper clarification of the relationship with the municipalities and the municipal health service and requirements for the professionally sound implementation of emergency preparedness in the maternity wards. The hospital reform liability system is not really good for individual decisions to be moved into the staging room. A short time ago, Stortinget dealt with a Document No. 8 proposals on the same subject, and in response to this, the Minister of Health made it clear that he would come to the Stortingen in connection with the budget proposals with a plan and notification part on the activities of enterprises based on the Health Business Act. At the end of my speech, I would like to ask representatives of the Government in this debate to confirm that, in the context of the 2004 draft budget, such a part of the plan and notification will be submitted, where the Stortinget will be briefed on the implementation and planning of major structural changes in health businesses. I hope that some of the members of the Government can respond to this during today's debate. With this I address the proposals that the Labour Party is promoting alone or together with others in the vote, as well as distributed proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e388	The representative Hill-Marta Solberg has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e393	The main challenge now is to reverse the development of increasing unemployment and to stimulate increased value creation in order to create new jobs. A tight budget is a contribution. So far, the Labour Party and the Government agree. The government also has faith in stable and good framework conditions, not in fiscal austerity in the middle of the year. We also thought the Labour Party meant that, not least in the light of Hill-Marta Solberg's opinions in a debate in Political Quarter 20 February this year with Siv Jensen: «But dear friend, who has said that the Workers' Party will increase taxes? ... When we're going to review our budget, we have to consider where to cut down, if that's something we're going to increase. ...and it is not that budget regulation for us means increased taxes.’ Why this reverse operation now? Does Hill-Marta Solberg think that there will be more jobs by increasing taxes on business by around SEK 1⁄2 billion a year, which the Labour Party has now proposed in revised national budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e403	The Labour Party as a whole has provided for all our proposals in our alternative revised budget. We have redispatched about NOK 2 billion on the state budget, with the following two main aims, first of all to create room for a package of measures to combat unemployment and, secondly, to ensure that what the pensioners had actually been promised. And it's redispatched the Workers' Party. Our redisposals mean that we've done real cuts and cuts of about $1⁄2 billion, and then we have income increases of about $ 1⁄2 billion. With respect to reporting, it is not possible for me to understand that the measures taken by the Workers' Party on the income side of the budget create problems for Norwegian business at all. That the stock discounts are increasing, I actually don't think for a moment how many jobs we're going to have in the future. These are tax incentives that affect those who have enough – and so on – from the outset, and do not, in our view, have any significance for the package of measures that we propose.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e408	The representative, Hill-Marta Solberg, referred to the fact that the Workers' Party has found infection for many of its proposals. That she didn't mention was what kind of containment proposal she had. So the Workers' Party has proposed an increase in the share of health, with a total of 164.3 million. This is, of course, a proposal that will go against them with the worst of advice. This is also a proposal that harmonizes badly with what the Labour Party has said earlier. Can the representative Hill-Marta Solberg explain why it is necessary and sensible to increase these properties, and does the representative Solberg not realize that this is an unsolidarian proposal, which will go hardest on the poorest in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e413	I have to say that already after such a short time of today's debate it is easy to see that the strategy of the Progress Party in this Chamber today is that attack is the best defence. It is rather daring when the 2003 Progress Party takes up the increase in excess of equity. Yes, the Workers' Party is in favour of a negotiated ceiling stoppage with the doctors. That means 75 million. kr in increased accumulators. But it is little compared to what the Progress Party has achieved by increasing excesses in medicine on blue prescription and by removing the burial aid when the budget was treated before Christmas. Then I think it is rather daring of the same party to make a big point that the Workers' Party is voting for the roof stoppage with the doctors, which involves a small proportion in relation to the strong self-promotion applications the Progress Party has obtained a majority in this hall before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e418	One of the most surprising in this setting is that the Workers' Party is not involved in getting a majority for more money to the municipalities. The Workers' Party, through its rhetoric, has for a long time created the impression that the Workers' Party is the party that will provide more money to the municipalities – in all debates and also in all possible newspaper posts. For example, Hill-Marta Solberg has said to the evening post that ‘Ap already announces strengthening of the municipal economy, and more money for school and care for the elderly, in the revised national budget’. The Labour Party's voters and trust-elected and municipal government representatives experience the paradox that, for once, the Progress Party has actually been with and allocated a little more money to the municipalities, as SV has done all year long, and that the Workers' Party actually had the opportunity to grant 1 billion fresh dollars to the municipal sector – not for next year, and not what the Workers' Party actually had in its original budget, because it is irrelevant, it is downgraded and history. Here it was about 1 billion fresh kroner, which could have gone to the municipalities tomorrow. Where is the Workers' Party? They're not there. And then my question is, why in the name of heaven isn't Hill-Marta Solberg and the Workers' Party there when they've promised it in buckets and buckets for months?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e429	This line illustrates a little bit of the differences between Djupedal's and my party. The working party has actually known quite a long time ago that when something is more important than other things, we have to give priority. We're not in the situation as SV, that we can be anywhere at any time. We have chosen to give priority to the fight against unemployment in the revised national budget, and then we came in the situation that the government took the fight against retirement. That means that we've been involved in financing, getting coverage, so that the pensioners get what they're promised. It's a hard priority we've done: we've been working on combating unemployment and giving priority to the pensioners. Øystein Djupedal doesn't think it's interesting, but it's a fact that for this year's budget, the Labour Party proposed NOK 3 billion more than the Government provided. We've also suggested it in the municipal proposition. It is in the municipal and state budget that the local economy has the opportunity to be remedied, and the Workers' Party will also do so in the budget process of the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e434	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e437	The main challenge this spring is to strengthen the fight against rising unemployment and to restore optimism in the business world. The revised national budget will help to secure and create jobs. «A winner of responsibility», wrote the VG on 17 June. At the chair, the paper states: ‘The agreement in Stortinget last Friday on the revised national budget once again makes us praise the Stortinge for proper work’. I'll join that rose. With flexibility and accountability, several parties have contributed to the adoption of a good budget today. The Cooperation Parties have obtained a majority in the Stortinge for the main lines of government policy. At the same time, it is obvious that several parties have contributed to the outcome. We see that the government's policy is working. A firm economic policy has contributed to a lower interest rate and a weaker exchange rate. The interest rate is now 2 pst. lower than when the Workers' Party ruled Norway. Since the adoption of the 2003 government budget, interest rates have fallen four times and new interest rates are expected. Lower interest rates contribute to job security and improve the economy of both families and municipalities. For a family with 1.5 million. Indebtedness — and this is not unusual — the reduction in interest rates means an annual savings of NOK 20 000 after tax. Lower interest rates also improve the finances of municipalities and will enable many municipalities to increase their efforts in schools and care for the elderly. Many jobs in industry are exposed due to high wage growth, strong exchange rates and international recession. Together with tax reductions, monetary policy is now bringing significant improvements to the business environment. Lower interest rates don't come of their own. The interaction between fiscal policy and monetary policy suggests that a more expansive fiscal policy creates the need for a tighter monetary policy, while a tight fiscal policy provides room for relief in monetary policy. Through the Holden II Committee, the social partners have given us a very clear advice. They warn against opening up a systematic increase in the use of oil revenues more than that resulting from the rule of action because it could lead to stronger crowns and weaken competitiveness and contribute to the deflagration and closure of firms in the competitive sector. In addition, the Holden II Committee underlines that it does not recommend measures to support individual industries and businesses. This is a clear support for a tighter fiscal policy and a more business-neutral economic policy. Our policy is an offensive strategy to do something about the cause of increasing unemployment. Kjell Bjørndalen from the joint association is of course right when he says that we cannot build ourselves out of the vacancy. When the challenge is to create greater space for the competitive sector, moving labour from the competitive sector to the protected sector is not the answer. The progression party's alternative is not new thoughts, but mainly a copy of the tools that were in the Per Kleppe toolbox, which was tested and that failed in the 1970s. We see that the government's policy is working. We're doing something about the cause of rising unemployment, and we're now seeing signs that optimism is coming back: Exports are on their way up. Figures from the SSB show that the process industry in May had the best figures in two years. Yesterday, the Central Statistical Office stated that low interest rates are being speeded up in the Norwegian economy. This means something to people's jobs. We are now getting more and more examples of businesses that can report brighter prospects. Intra-As, an enterprise with approx. 100 employees in Malvik, South-Tronde Teams, such as producing steel sinks, reporting a performance improvement of an estimated 10 to 15 pst. The decline in the krone price is important for growth this year. Fibo AS in Holmestrand, another company with approx. 100 employees, who produce aluminium components for, inter alia: The car industry also reports more positive prospects. The list may be made long. My point is that tight budgets, interest rates and exchange rates are about jobs. Therefore, it is definitely not a passive attitude to say no to the long lists of good wishes, but an active attitude to secure and create jobs. The setting of the revised national budget makes several lines of conflict visible. The first is whether it is fiscal policy or monetary policy that should speed up the economy. There are the government parties and the Workers' Party on one side and the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party on the other. The second line of conflict concerns fiscal policy. There are the parties of government and the party of progress on one side and the Labour Party and the Socialist Left on the other. For the Right, it is an objective that it should be possible to live as much as possible on its own income. When we lower taxes, we also increase the freedom of choice of individuals and families. That the Workers' Party will not lower the taxes for most people, is nothing new. More attention is paid to the fact that, in an age of increasing unemployment, the Workers' Party is choosing to increase taxes on business and further weaken Norwegian private ownership. We need more optimism and faith in the future in business. That's why we're lowering taxes, so we're removing bureaucracy and the form field, and that's why we're betting on research and development. For the right, it is important to allow the private sector to grow more than the public sector — both in the short and longer term. In today's situation, tight budgets are important to avoid even more people losing their jobs. If we were to follow the recipe of the Progress Party with a more expansive financial policy, we might have a few more building workers for a period, but at the same time we would have even fewer jobs in the competitive sector. When the Right wants to limit the growth of public expenditure, it is also for the sake of tomorrow's pensioners and tomorrow's taxpayers. We must ensure that economic policy is sustainable from a generational point of view. The pension obligations mean that we should actually put more aside. Those who don't want to pay the bill today, but also use all their political power to push up public expenditure, provide for the well-being we're going to live on tomorrow. This is a very topical issue. Yesterday, a majority in the United Kingdom chose to increase social security over and above the Government's proposals. Today, the government parties and the Workers' Party ensure that the social security scheme is covered. The point is that increased social security has a price, either it has to be covered by cutting off other public expenditure, or, as other parties do, you choose to send the bill to tomorrow's taxpayers. When the Right will limit the growth of public expenditure, it is in order to create more room for the private sector. We will give room for the individual's personal freedom and social responsibility. We want a society with more diversity and greater freedom of choice. At the national meeting of the Progress Party, Central Board member Torgeira Höien spoke to NTB as follows: ‘For each task undertaken by the State, the risk of lowering taxes and taxes is reduced, which in turn affects the freedom of people to choose.’ I agree with Torgair Höien. It is amazing that it is his own party that has now become one of the foremost to push up public expenditure on pensions, health care and municipalities. The result of such a line is, as Höien said, that it reduces ‘the sense of lowering taxes’. Finally, let me note that the suspension of the revised national budget shows that the Government is in agreement with the main lines of the budget, and it is adopted within the framework of responsibility. Let me also, for the sake of order, address the proposals on which the Right is the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e512	It's not just for the record. That is necessary if they are to be put to the vote. The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e520	One of the things that everyone noticed when the revised national budget was presented was that in a number of areas, the government chose to go directly into conflict with the Storting by reversing important issues that the majority of population had voted through. The government parties have to the extent that the cabinet actually stood. The recommendation shows that this will be adopted in the context of the review of the revised national budget. The government is losing all rematches. Yesterday the social security settlement was dealt with here in the hall. It was also mentioned by the representative Sanner. It is commendable that the government parties are involved and take responsibility for funding, but it might be interesting to hear whether the Right fiscal spokesman agrees with what was the Norman's opinion yesterday, that he was actually a little tired of the retirement stoppage being the way the Storting has now adopted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e527	Now I didn't hear Victor D. Norman's posts yesterday, but we'll probably all be bored from time to time, without wanting to take a reprisal on the debate yesterday. I think we should focus on what we're going to do today. What we have been concerned about in the context of the revised national budget, when the social security funds were increased in addition to the Government's proposals, is that it should be covered. The government parties and the Workers' Party have found each other on the containment side and it confirms that the Workers' Party has acted responsibly. Otherwise, I would like to say whether these so-called four rematches: what the government was concerned about, was that these four decisions that were taken beyond spring, had no impact. During the work on the revised national budget, we have ensured that the social security system has been curtailed. We have made sure that the exemption from the employer’s paid kindergarten is covered. That means that two of the four so-called rematches are now covered in. We think that is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e536	The tight budget and accountability have returned to the rhetoric of this government. Data from the SSB show that we had negative growth in the last quarter last year and in the first quarter of this year. This is called recession. In the past, it was called depression and viewed as a serious problem. Now this government calls it the result of a successful economic policy. Does the Right believe that the fall in interest rates is only a result of fiscal policy, or does the Right believe that it can also be related to economic downturns both at home and outside?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e541	I tried in my speech to say a little bit about the interaction between fiscal policy and monetary policy, namely that a more expansive fiscal policy creates the need for a tighter monetary policy, while a tight fiscal policy can provide room for relief in monetary policy. It is quite obvious that there are many aspects that play into the Norwegian economy. The international recession is clearly significant. Then the question is, how do we answer that recession? Are we responding by using fiscal policy with selective support measures and by ensuring that more construction workers can be employed? Or are we making sure to do something about the cause of rising unemployment and creating more room for the competitive sector? That's the last thing we've chosen, and we see that it's now producing results. The central statistical agency said yesterday, that lower interest rates are speeding up the economy. It's a safe course that we want to hold on to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e546	Jan Tore Sanner said that the most important thing in the revised budget was to strengthen the fight against unemployment and create optimism in business. But then it's quite unlikely that the government just a month ago presented a revised budget proposal that was almost chemically free of measures that could stimulate industry to innovation and change. On the contrary, it was cut, as for example. in the field of nutrition research. Not until the government saw that there were multiples for some suggestions, e.g. to increase the rights of SND and to research and development, they support such measures. Is it so to understand that the Right Principle is opposed to using targeted tools to bring down unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e553	The right is the principle of using targeted measures to reduce unemployment. That is what we have done in the revised national budget, because we know that the main reason that jobs in the competitive sector are threatened has been the high interest rate and the strong dollar. We correspond to what the social partners themselves stress and ask for, and this applies both to the employer and to the employee, namely a tight budget that can contribute to lower interest rates and weaker exchange rates. It is the most targeted response to increasing unemployment. Then, of course, we're not against discussing other measures, but the problem is that if you put all these other measures on top of each other, the result won't be a tight budget. Then the result is an expansive budget, which would not have the same effect on us being able to do anything about the cause of increasing unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e560	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e563	There is a ghost across Europe, and there is a ghost over Norway. It's the ghost of unemployment. More than 100,000 Norwegian families are affected, and unemployment will rise even more in the year before us. This ghost is the biggest social problem we're facing, and this ghost is the worst thing that can hit our families. This scourge doesn't have to be permanent, this scourge isn't natural, it can be done with if you have the will and the courage to use the means that the state has to fight unemployment. The fight against unemployment is one of the three main areas which SV has prioritised in this revised budget. The other area is an improvement in the municipal economy, and the third is to reverse this rematch that the government has put up with. Unfortunately, the government does not take the fight against unemployment seriously. They don't have tools, they say, the toolbox is empty. We see the result of that, because a blind belief that lower interest rates and lower interest rates in themselves are enough to create more jobs, is unfortunately not correct. It is also a sort of blind belief that only the budget is tight enough, this will reduce unemployment and get people working. Unfortunately, the situation now is that unemployment is the cause of the trends towards recovery in the economy that we see. The fact that the krone price has now weakened, that interest rates have fallen is due to the government’s policy – and the government’s policy has led to more unemployment. I find it amazing to note that the government’s representatives are talking in a way that this is the reason, after they have imposed a record high unemployment rate on Norway during the winter. Some of the paradox here is that we've got a way of fixing interest rates, and therefore maybe the rate of interest, which is disconnected from the political system. There is now a system in which the Norwegian Bank determines the interest rate according to four criteria, given in a mandate by the Stortinget. Now you might have to be careful about criticising the Bank of Norway too much, because this is a political responsibility that really lies in this room, but the Governing Council has thus bombed on all four parameters listed in their mandate. The first is that you have to have a stable crown in relation to the international currency. It has not been fulfilled. On the contrary, the Norwegian crown has been record strong throughout the winter, which has inflicted a bloodbath on the Norwegian industry. Production and employment are mentioned in other parts of the mandate. Production is stagnating, according to a report from the Statistical Central Bureau last night. Employment has never been lower. This means that unemployment is high. So the last one is inflation, which you've been driven by. So the inflation target has been totally bombed. In a situation where we are in bad times, one should have bombed at the top of 2.5 pst. So you've bombed at the bottom, at the bottom of 1.2 pst. the inflation target has now been, instead of 2,5 pst, which was the target. This means that the Bank of Norway has been wrong about all four parameters related to the mandate, and it is serious, because these are deeply political decisions. This has contributed greatly to the pessimism of business and the pessimism of society. SV was the only party here in the hall that warned against this kind of interest rate fixing. Unfortunately, we got right. Norwegian households and Norwegian workplaces have now had to bleed for this. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance has called the Governor of the Central Bank into a conversation about how this mandate should be understood. We have agreed on this for a long time, and we hope now that it means that the entire mandate is actually being used, that we are using a little common sense and not just economic models, which unfortunately are wrong. On Monday, there was an interesting article in the Evening Post, written by former Nobel Prize winner Joseph E. Stiglitz, who several should read. He writes, among other things: the indiscriminate pursuit of price stability is in reality detrimental to economic growth and well-being. Furthermore, he writes that technocrats and financial market actors, who benefit from this institutional instrument, i.e. the inflation target, have done an impressive job in convincing many countries about the excellence of the inflation target and how necessary it is to treat it as a top-level technical matter. The point is that this is the political reality, that the inflation target has become a kind of technique, not politics, as it is, of course. This is a precise description from the Nobel Prize winner of the disclaimer that is not to say that there is a magnificence and government that is, of course, responsible for the country’s economic policy, for unemployment, for interest rates, for crown prices – and therefore for using the tools available to the Storting. Adding this to the Governing Council is a political reluctance. It is, of course, a political responsibility which is therefore laid down, but on which the consequences cannot be taken. Let me take another example of this government's lack of industrial policy. A large industrial enterprise on the coast of Trøndelag, called Marin Harvest, is now to be laid down, unfortunately, because Norwegian salmon industry is not in good times. But when I then asked the Minister of Industry if he would like to contact SND or SIVA to see if it was possible to get this started, he said: No, I don't intend to do that, and otherwise the government has an excellent policy, with lower taxes, and we have now also removed the electricity tax to the industry. – Well, good day, man – axe shaft! There were 150 workplaces away! The government has no intention of doing anything. This list as Mr. Sanner referred to how well it went for the Norwegian industry, can be made very long by industrial enterprises that have been shut down. The whole of Norway sees that during this winter there has been a bloodbath mainly caused by a misguided monetary policy, and a misguided policy from the Government. SV's policy on this is a more active state. The state must use the means available to us. Through the budget, we now have a majority for a number of things that are positive. It's about gas ferries, a change in the permit law, some higher education buildings, a billion to the research fund, a little bit to development contracts, 50 million. kr for racial protection and a few other things that are important. For all things – these are good numbers in Stortinget, there should be a lot more. Indeed, the big picture should be what now needs to create optimism in order to fight against this pessimism which, unfortunately, has spread. And this is a careful start. We from the SV's side say very openly that we now have to have a national hard work. That means that a lot of people have to put taps on the stable, including we, in order to get their hands out of work and get solved unresolved problems. The government shouldn't least be a participant in this, and not a counterpart where one says unilaterally that only we get tight enough budget, so it's probably going well. Dear friends, it doesn't. The state must be active to get its hands in the work and to solve major, important societal problems. We have great challenges ahead of us. The second important priority for SV in this revised budget is the fight for the local economy. I have to say that I am very disappointed that we did not succeed in getting into the goal. In particular, I'm disappointed because the paradoxical situation arose that the Progress Party of all, who have always been the ones who cut the most in the municipal economy, was once right. They have granted some extra money, a little less than SV, but they have granted – and then we experience the paradox that it was the Workers' Party that would not be involved in this! Of course, it's not right that the representative Solberg says that SV has money for everything. We have a budget that's tighter than the government's, but it's probably a little bit random. The point is, of course, we've covered every penny we have. We have prioritised the municipalities, and we are surprised that there was no majority for this, simply because the local politicians of the Workers' Party, the Labour Party's voters in the Norwegian municipalities, have to see how narrow he is. The municipalities are now giving up people – not because they don't need these hands, but because they don't have the money to pay the employees. This pessimism that is also raging in our municipalities is part of what we have to fight. We have to try to create optimism. The decline in Norwegian municipalities reinforces this negative trend in which our society unfortunately is in, right these days. Our goal – and we are also challenging the bulk of the population – is that we must also do something about this. The community economics proposition is a sign in the right direction, we're happy about that, but it's half a year ahead until it starts to work. This means that many municipal employees will also lose their jobs, and many tasks will not be carried out in the next six months. Our third main goal was to get these four rematches that the government has put up with. The nursery agreement is a piece of this, which we are very proud to have landed. I'm not going to spend any more time on it right now. The pensioners have got what Stortinget actually asked for. This is covered in heads for heads, as Mr. Truers and others have said that we have not – of course we have. We are happy about this, we are also pleased that the net pay scheme is being continued, as SV was involved in a settlement. And we are happy that the families of children get the money through an improved housing support scheme, which SV was involved in. We are not pleased with this simply because we have now received these decisions that we are pleased with, but mainly because this also contributes to the reputation of politics. These constant rematches from the Government and the majority of the population contribute to weakening the reputation of policy, the reputation of policy and the general confidence of this room. I seriously believe that it should be carefully thought out by the government when, after that time, challenges and provokes the bulk of the population. Because there are people in this room who have to decide – not the government. So this revised budget has come a step in the right direction for some things. We would have liked to see that we got a lot further. We will come back to that in the future budget. I then take up the proposals, which are included in the vote, where SV is the co-rapporteur, and I will come back to some amendments to the proposals during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e604	The representative of Øystein Djupedal has taken the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e609	A more active state, says the representative Djupedal – and I agree with his reasoning on this. The need to ring workplaces that are at risk is now evident. The active participation of the State has been, and should be, an important instrument and tool for the closure of jobs. The Labour Party has promoted a number of measures that should activate a passive government in this area, and I refer to Hill-Marta Solberg's posts and her evidence of this. It is therefore with fright that I see that SV has given the Government all the necessary help to privatise a number of companies that the State owns through SND Invest. As a result, the state ownership of Norwegian businesses is weakened. Is the representative of Djupedal satisfied with an aberration of State jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e621	Now I think the representative Kristoffersen doesn't know what SND Invest is. There are no government jobs, but it is the country that through the SND contributes to equity in some enterprises. SND Invest is outside what we think is the most important task of SND and the state. And we now have a majority for approx. 200 million. kr more to SND through this budget. We have also received half a billion through the instrument proposal for this large "Ryan Fund", i.e. the district fund, which is to contribute to jobs in economically poor areas – a significant victory for public utilities, and not least a significant victory for low-nutrient municipalities. SND Invest has been a purely commercial operator, which we believe the private banking and financial market should essentially take care of. These holdings are mainly located in the Oslo and Eastern regions – certainly good capital for those with these holdings, but we have thought that the public agency should be more targeted towards areas where it is most needed. What is contained in the instrument proposal, which was adopted here in the Stortingen a few days ago, is a significant strengthening and improvement of the public instrument, where the rapporteur, Ryan, has done an exemplary job for the Norwegian business community. We're very proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e632	SV's rhetoric is known to be the richest ones to be marined economically if SV gets an impact on its priorities and on its policy. But the SV's proposal in the revised budget shows that it is not just the so-called rich who want to lose with SV's policy. SV goes, among other things. in order to increase the legal fee from 700 to 740 kroner, i.e. a rise of approx. 6 pst. This will increase the cost of bringing debt cases before the Conciliation Board. It will provide more expensive passports and also have some other negative consequences, which it will take too long to frame up. Does the representative Øystein Djupedal really think that the increase in the legal fee is a right and a good priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e641	One of the greatest challenges facing our society is to fight increased economic differences. Unfortunately, with the government that we now have, we see that the economic differences are increasing. The tax and distribution policies to which it is added contribute to the increase in the number of those with a lot of money. In the revised budget, we have not re-examined all the tax proposals we believe the Government has taken. But one thing we have taken, and that is the proposal for tax on dividends, which is the single tax scheme that contributes to the greatest differences in Norway. This is an important proposal – for which unfortunately SV has not received support. I expect that the Labour Party may support us in the next round. This is an important way to make sure that we get capital into the state, which can also be used more purposefully to balance the difference. The court fee, which the representative Hageseter takes up, is a relatively small matter, let me just say it. It's about NOK 40 more for the passport, as far as I remember in the hurry. It's clear that this is also an important piece for SV that can help us get money into our alternative budget, so that we can use it in other important areas. But the fight against economic differences, which Hageseter is concerned about – or which he later deals with – is for SV a major issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e652	When the Christian People's Party joined the Right Government, there were many who were anxious – including me – about how our aid efforts would go. But as everyone has registered, this government has had the highest effort ever made in this area. The biggest global challenge we have is to balance differences between countries. SV has normally been a member of the Christian People's Party in this work. That's why I'm shocked to record that SV now, together with the Progress Party and the Workers' Party – I'm not so amazed at these two, but above SV – agrees to move aid from Africa, South Asia and Central America to the Balkans. The Balkans clearly have challenges, but taking away from those parts of the world that are the poorest, I think is bad. In addition, much of this money is tied up in agreements, and we risk having to go back to expectations of commitments. Is this a new line from SV? Are we going to see that SV in his eagerness to be high up in gallups, has forgotten his heart? Does SV wish to reverse this during the day?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e661	Yes, yes – it's okay to try, of course. And that's a nice try. We are pleased – let me just say it right away – that the only visible sign that the Christian People's Party is in government is that the Government has not cut aid. We have been a warm defender of the part of the government's policy that goes on assistance, and it is to be the Christian People's Party's favour. I am absolutely convinced that if Per-Kristian Foss and his comrades had got what they wanted, there would have been a significant cut in the aid budgets. So I'm going to give credit for that. The change made in the revised budget on the recovery of the Balkans is relatively small. We have, together with other parties, found a way to do this: go back on a cut that the Government had proposed. This money was important, and we believe that the investment in the Balkans is important. That is why we have gone towards the Government and found evidence of this in a manner that is gentle, sensible and responsible. But I would like to challenge Dagrun Eriksen back, for there will be many new, big blows. I noticed that a representative from the Christian People's Party in yesterday's Evening Post said that the opposition is stealing the government's money in terms of priorities. If you can continue to give priority to assistance, we promise to support it. But then the government has to stop believing that the Storting steals money – The Storting grants money.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e675	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e678	Being unemployed is a bad situation. Unemployment is much more than the loss of income, even if it is difficult enough. Thus, the fight against unemployment is one of the most important tasks for growth and government now. For this reason, we in the Christian People's Party are pleased that the government's firm and consistent holding for a tight fiscal arrangement has contributed to lower interest rates and to the fact that the krona has staggered strongly, which is very positive for those who work in the export-right part of our business. Most professionals believe that there is good reason to expect that the pressure on interest and on the crown will decrease even more. Politically, it may have a cost side to pursue a consistent and responsible economic policy. You don't need to have a long time studying the gallup numbers to see them. But we don't miss the courage for that reason! As I just said, we already see positive consequences of this policy, and by avoiding populist changes, the positive consequences will be more. We note that optimism is on the way back both in the business community and in the professional community that is particularly concerned about economic policy. The government’s proposal for the revised 2003 national budget was largely influenced by the intention to secure and create jobs. This came, among other things. expressed through the provision of four new regional seed funds, administered by the SND, with 100 million. kr each, plus a loss fund of 100 million. NOK, and the provision of additional DKK 1 billion to the favourable loan scheme for school buildings in municipalities. The process in the Committee has been highly influenced by the fact that the various parties take the fight against unemployment seriously, even though it may be politically inconceivable as to what is the best form of action in this struggle. In this context, I will bring forward the cooperation on income policy. In addition to a tight budgetary policy, it would be necessary to reduce the strong wage growth. Good and binding cooperation between the Government and the social partners has resulted. The Government Party is helping to increase the fund capital of research and innovation by DKK 1 billion, and they are helping to increase the proceeds to the international marketing of travel by $10 million. NOK and to increase the allowance for race protection by 50 million. kr. In addition to this, I have to state that a co-consultant committee is going in to build more ferries. In combination with the dispensation mechanism when applying the rules of leave for particularly exposed industries, this is very beneficial for those working in the coastal yard industry. The construction of new ferries that meet specific emission requirements is also a good environmental policy, as well as the possibility of technological empowerment through the active involvement of Norwegian industry in developing the next generation of ferry fleets – ferries with propulsion machinery that lead to a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The dispensation scheme for the permitting rules, as I mentioned earlier, will also make it easier to maintain high skills in deferred industries that have relatively large fluctuations in employment due to the fact that order access may vary. Such a system of exemptions is in line with the desire of industry itself, and it is an approach that facilitates the framework conditions for business to create a basis for further growth and development in our country. I must mention another matter with which we in the Christian People's Party are very content. This is due to the increase in the charge of raspberry. There is now a clear majority in the Committee to increase the tax on this alcohol product. Alcohol policy is, in fact, a consequence of the concerns expressed in most of the parties, when the obligation to make cannabis Brussels almost a daily product had to be implemented from the New Year. The revised national budget 2003 is not the treatment of a new budget. There is the revision and adjustment of a budget, with a policy that has proved to be a long-term and effective tool in the fight against unemployment, and in order to secure and create jobs. The process of the Financial Committee has also underlined this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e704	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e707	I was wondering if I heard the article from the representative of Sørfonn. He belongs to one of the government parties, the Christian People's Party, and he was pleased with the firm and consistent attitude of the Government, especially in labour market and employment issues. Then I have to ask Sørfonn: was he so very pleased with the government's firm attitude when it came to the net pay system for seafarers, when there were measures to build more ferries in Norway to increase employment, when it came to making the permit law more humane to the unemployed? This was not the government's policy. Nor was it the policy of the Christian People's Party. But when I read Bergen's magazine and other newspapers, it seems as if it is the Christian People's Party's policy. One had to negotiate with the Financial Committee in order to have a majority in favour of these proposals. They agreed at the end, reluctantly, because the opposition stood by its actions. I call this the mildest totally misleading. I feel that I had to fix this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e714	First I would like to say that it is nice to hear that the representative Nordtun also reads the great newspaper of the West, Bergen's Official Journal. I think that can give him good and useful recordings and good information that he can certainly benefit from in his work. When it comes to the government's firm and consistent economic policy, we are pleased with it, and it is absolutely necessary to counter unemployment, which we experience as a threat. The solution comes from a combination of many things. It's related to what's happening out there, with a decline in the international economy, it's related to the high interest rate we've had in Norway, with the strong dollar rate and the high wage growth we've had. There are several factors that have worked together. The government has been consistently committed to do something about the factors we can do with it. When, in addition, with other good forces, changes have been made in the rules of permeability and the construction of several ferries, we thought that this is a win-win situation that in such a day it must be allowed to rejoice over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e723	I have always felt that the Christian People's Party has wanted to profile itself as the family and care party. They have often expressed special responsibility for the weakest in society. It was therefore with amazement that I saw that the government in the revised budget proposes to increase the proportion of people in a number of areas of health care. I believe that the pressure in the Norwegian economy today is so strong that it is imperative to increase the tax on disease by 75 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Is the Christian People's Party comfortable in providing the sick with containment and taking responsibility for the tightness of the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e731	It is good to record that the representative Monsen has also got the slogans of the Christian People's Party. Family and care are simply very important to us, and that is what we want to highlight more than anything else. Then he asks questions about property. Then it might be okay with a little clarification. What is contained in the draft revised budget is the result of what has been negotiated in the medical settlement. In addition, I would like to remind you that the ownership is not increased. This will therefore not have consequences for those who are already on the roof. This will allow some more people to get to the top at an earlier point in time, but the ownership is still there. To represent this as a very downturn is a completely wrong representation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e738	I am pleased that the vote shows that the government does not have a majority for its proposal to convert the electricity tax from 1 January 2004. I am very pleased because this is an unimaginablely bad proposal. This weakens the power balance by approx. 3 TWh, which actually corresponds to six extensions in Saudi Arabia. That's $2 billion. But worse it's that it beats the legs under the environmentally friendly heating industry we need to make people less dependent on electricity for heating. We experienced very high power prices in winter. The long-term, environmentally friendly solution to that is that we build out more waterborne heat. The proposal to convert the electricity charge will be the most effective measure to ensure that this does not happen. I want to ask the representative Sørfonn if it is such that he can promise that the government in the state budget will not put forward such a scheme that will strike the legs under the industry we so badly need.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e747	I am a little uncertain about what part of the electricity charge the representative Sørensen thought about, whether it is the electricity charge for the industry, which one has been ordered by the ESA to change. When it's about that piece that I understand it's about, it's a fact that we have to stick to, that we have an ESA directive that makes us have to do something about this fee. There has been a review in the revised budget saying that there are different ways to do this. But no conclusion has been drawn about what kind of option you want to fall down on. That part of the discussion will give us the time ahead of us, until we have to have a clarification on this question. We have not reached a conclusion, but this will be a debate that will take place in the future, and where the Government is very busy finding a solution that can serve the industry's interests, but that is also consistent with what can be approved by ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e752	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e755	With my last name it may not be so unnatural to open with a Garborg quotation, for the occasion back to in Danish-Norwegian: «Truth, Truth – if so it will lead to Hell!». One can spin a little bit around this call. First of all, the truth is that a majority of the Central Party budget would have led the Norwegian economy in a completely different direction from what I suggested in the Garborg quotation. In particular, we have actively supported targeted measures to counter negative developments in the labour market. The main measure is DKK 1 billion for the transport sector, with increased investment in road construction, maintenance and race protection. Another cornerstone of our approach is a comprehensive commitment to regional development in general and municipalities, especially in the order of NOK 1.5 billion. Thirdly, the Centre Party goes in to spend more money on nutrient research and development. Among other things, we have agreed to increase the Research and Innovation Fund by DKK 2 billion, while in addition we are launching special packages of measures for the furniture and yard industries. We also propose an increased commitment to the marketing of Norwegian travel life. We also want to increase our health and social spending. The red thread is easy to see and can be summed up as follows: the centre party believes that we neither have time nor can afford to bet unilaterally on that monetary policy, that is. the fall in interest rates, the Norwegian economy shall be deducted from the default rate. Financial policy intervention in the form of increased public consumption and investment needs to be taken, not least in order to address the acute problems that have arisen since the last harvest of the Norwegian economy. Nor is it about opening up an irresponsible flood of increased public expenditure, but thoughtful measures that meet the challenges we face in the short term. It is also part of the story that, in the professional community, there seems to be a greater consensus that fiscal policy action needs to be taken. The government parties simply express themselves as if the relationship between so-called tight budgets and interest rate fixing under the direction of the Bank of Norway is balancing on a knife edge, and that a weakening of the balance sheet – to put it again with Garborg – can quickly ‘bring to Hell’. The centre party believes this is a truth with some major modifications. The relationship between the deterioration in the budgetary balance and the rise in interest rates is relatively uncontroversial. For example, last year's government budget deficit was DKK 10 billion higher than budgeted, without making a policy shift in Norway's Bank impossible at the end of the year. In other words, we probably have a greater degree of fiscal freedom than the government parties claimed, and the economic situation requires the political parties to agree to use it. Much of the debate around the revision has focused on the rematches the Government has chosen to play with Stortinget, cf. net wages and salaries of seafarers and pensions. Karl Marx stated as well that history first repeats itself as tragedy, then as a comedy. On the other hand, the rematches in Stortinget have been primarily tragic, mostly because they have probably both taken place and time that should instead have been spent designing a budget more for their time. We'll see if Marx is right, and that the comics are too full of new rematches for the fall. The government does indeed believe that several of the proposals which today receive a majority are in line with the Sem Declaration. It may be, but once again: the truth is that many of these proposals were not proposed by the Government itself. After all, like now, it's the big business that makes the government realize what it thinks is its own goal. For the government parties, it may have to feel the most like the execution of an imaginary pregnancy. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions that the Central Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e774	The representative Arne Braut has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e777	Job No one, in the view of the Left, to bring down the growth in the number of unemployed and to create new, forward-looking jobs. The left is pleased that the Government has received through a revised budget in the Storting where both rigour and government priorities are secured. The aim of the 2003 state budget and its revision is primarily to make an important contribution to working life in the fight against increasing unemployment. We do this primarily by ensuring that the budget is revised within the responsible framework, so that additional interest reductions and a weaker dollar rate result. It may always be tempting to spend more money for a number of good purposes, but the cost of increasing interest and loss of jobs is, in the Left's view, too high a price to pay. No curtailment seems more unsocial than high interest rates, which frame both individuals, municipalities, the business community and not least young people to establish themselves for the first time. A tight budget is also the most important measure to secure jobs and a strong and competitive business throughout Norway. The left is therefore pleased to note that the government's policy is working. Since the 2003 government budget was approved, interest rates have fallen four times, from 7 pst. to 5 pst. After reaching a top at the beginning of the year, the crown is now weighted with more than 7 pst. In the fight against increasing unemployment, we must also use other instruments. For the Left, it has been particularly important to focus on creating new jobs. Left will give space to man's creative abilities, so that it becomes as natural to create one's own job as to find a place within the established working life. The revised 2003 budget is a lever for innovation, entrepreneurs and small businesses – a lever that will help create new jobs across the country. A large investment in seed funds will help to strengthen access to seed capital at the very early stage of the development of the enterprise. A large-scale research effort through increased permissions, including: The research fund and the FUNN scheme will significantly improve the framework for knowledge businesses and stimulate industrial research. This, together with other measures, will also be an important contribution to creating new jobs across the country. ‘These members are very well understood to be careful to promise money for all good purposes.’ This quote - believe it or not - was taken from the Progress Party's comments in the Financial Committee configuration. The party of progress, which in turn has supported the budget we are revising, but which uses billions of non-invading, and which will in addition signal tens of billions of new ones for use in 2004, increases that do not guarantee jobs in our competitively exposed industry at all, rather the opposite. The left, together with the other government parties, is very pleased that, through its work, we have been able to find multiple numbers for the collection of each crown in the expanded framework of social security and childcare. We are also pleased that some of the opposition parties acted as responsible as one might expect from responsible opposition parties. Yesterday, we discussed the municipal proposal for 2004 in this room. For the Left, the work of increasing local self-government and less state-level detail has been a major feature of this spring. It will also be in the future, but I look at the comments and the debate yesterday that left has a job to do. Workplaces that provide security for the individual, as well as tax receipts to municipalities, together with lower interest rates, will provide more resources to municipalities. We note that in the revision of the 2004 budget, the Labour Party prioritises the fight against unemployment first, but until next year, the Labour Party promises over DKK 3 billion more to the municipalities, more to the retirementist countries and the launch of many new public buildings, and according to comments, one will also fulfill the defence investment agreement. There are high expectations for the Workers' Party, and it will be exciting to see the implementation. The left is well pleased with its own efforts both in government and on the Stortinget this spring. Government policies work in the fight against increasing unemployment. The last thing we learned was that we heard the SSB's estimate for the Norwegian economy, which was presented yesterday. The SSB notes that the picture of the labour market is now somewhat stronger than it was in the previous period. Bets on the unborn business, on knowledge, on research and on innovation enable us to create new jobs that provide income to further develop our future. Together with a tight financial policy of my Left that the job of the Government is doing is producing good results. Finally, the Government Party will support proposal No. 109, from the Workers' Party, to give the Government the power to initiate measures for the North Sea divers while we wait for this matter to be dealt with here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e810	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e813	The representative Vihovde is content with his own efforts. But it must presumably be a good deal of painful things like the Left, who have tried to profile themselves in environmentally friendly energy use, must be on this government. I will show you, among other things: for the cut of Enova at 20 million. kr. The representative Vihovde focused on the fight against unemployment. I agree with what has been said here before, that one cannot dig or build itself out of the solution, but there is no capacity available, and therefore the bulk of the population has now succeeded in completing some construction projects, among others. project, and created a multiple for it. But I want to challenge Vihovde in another area, because there are some such curative projects that Stadsbyg has a mandate to implement. I know about some high-rises that are ready to put the spade in the earth, funded by rent income, but because of the tight frameworks that state buildings now have, they don't get started. The Labour Party and SV have pointed that out. I hope that Vihovde as representative of the government party can follow this up in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e822	Let me start with the cut in Enova. Yes, there's a small cut there, but at the same time, this government has invested a lot on renewable energy, and one has also added 225 million. kr. for heat pumps. So to the construction sector. There are a lot of good projects going on, and the Labour Party has got a lot of them started and designed. The left could have thought several of them, because there's a aftermath before the maintenance of public buildings. But when you're going to prioritize and keep a tight budget, there's a cut here. I could maybe challenge the Workers' Party back. When they now secure multiple numbers for the start-up of many new buildings, while also strengthening the local economy, securing against unemployment, securing defence investments and pension lists, how will they meet that priority when we are discussing the 2004 budget? As I said, there are many good measures one might have thought to have supported, but the most important thing is to secure Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e833	The representative Vihöd informed that job no. one for the Government is to bring down the solution. I could imagine an answer from the representative Vihovde whether she thinks the government has been happy in this area, when we see developments so far this year. When the unemployment rate is job number one, it might also be interesting to know what job number two, job number three osb. for the Government, and to the right a little bit about how development and status are on these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e841	I believe the Government has succeeded in this respect. It also shows the SSB’s business cycle report that this might turn around. It shows that delivering a tight budget, delivering a tightly revised national budget, works. When interest rates go down while the dollar is weakening, business in that part of the country where both the representative Hagesets and I live may get better terms and maybe don't have to cut in the workforce. The National Association of Technology Enterprises has stated that if the euro gets weak, it doesn't think so, but if it gets down to the eighties, it would be a good thing to turn this around. It's actually happened. This government is delivering, this happiness. Actually, it's job number one to get more people a job. If we can't do that, we'll weaken our welfare. We are reducing the revenue of the state that we need to use to finance the welfare arrangements that we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e850	It sails daily Russian oil tankers with crude oil along the coast of North Norway. This traffic is much, much larger than we had anticipated, and it's increasing. The coast manager has even said that Norway has been taken to bed. The standard of many of these oil tanks is such that the danger of an oil disaster is imminent. The need for adequate coastal preparedness is required at the most. In the revised national budget, the Government has only briefed on measures to be considered in the 2004 budget. No specific measures have been proposed. The greatest need is to put in place enough tugboat capacity. SV has proposed that 40 million be allocated. kr. to strengthen this capacity, so that it can be in place before the winter storms set in and the risk of accidents increases. The Government and the Left will not be in it. My question to May Britt Vihovde is whether she is satisfied that we are not getting the necessary oil protection equipment on the coast of North Norway until far out in 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e859	It is stated in the landfill proposal that, when it comes to the towing boat capacity, the government will come back to this issue in 2004, and that one has seen schemes that will work, which are approved, until one comes back to the total. I have also registered that the Government actually prioritizes the most important measure that came in Finnmark, namely the Traffic Centre. One has re-prioritized means to project this. It is one of the most important pieces to go along the Finnmark coast to ensure preparedness. I hope that the Government, as one has said, will establish closer cooperation between the various actors operating on our coast, and that they will carry out this work. I am totally satisfied with the job that the government is doing with this, even if you could have always thought that things were going faster. But one takes the grips as a finder needed, and perhaps first and foremost the Trafik Central.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e870	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e873	The last line from Geir-Ketil Hansen should have been addressed to me, because I know the most about it. I'm the one who's talked about it the most. May Britt Vihovde has no idea what's going on, that you're moving ship traffic within the 12-mile limit. Today it goes largely beyond the 12-mile limit. But don't do that. What I should say is that the Coastal Party believes there is room for spending more money than the agreed framework allows. However, the use of money needs to be targeted at the necessary measures to ensure a varied, value-creating working life as a foundation for the welfare state. We have been running with both tight budgets and high interest rates for several years. Despite the fact that it has been clear for a long time that this means that jobs are disappearing from the country, and that business is losing competitiveness, the government has threatened the interest-rate ghost every time someone has promoted constructive proposals to secure jobs in this country. Only now, when a few hundred jobs disappear every day, has the government found it too good to ensure income policy cooperation with the social partners. At the same time, the Governor of the Central Bank has been clearly informed by the Government that, if the Storting does not accept the framework, the interest shall be set up. Unfortunately, when the slowdown of investment in road, rail and maintenance increases from year to year, while economic policy leads to job closures, the need for oil money is increasing. It will be difficult for everyone to run long-term planning when one cannot rely on stable framework conditions for more than six months at a time. Now, it seems that the government has no long-term goal, and it infects the desire to invest in this country. It is difficult for ordinary people to understand that while we were able to raise large foreign loans in order to invest in future income opportunities, we cannot now, when income comes, invest in competitive business frameworks, in the maintenance of past investments, or in new expansions that can offset the competitive disadvantages of industry by lying far from the market. On the contrary, there are ever new proposals that make it difficult to maintain business and housing throughout the country. This is the Coastal Party deeply concerned about. The coastal party believes that we should distinguish between unsafe oil revenues and foreseeable gas revenues sold on long-term contracts. The coastal party considers that gas revenues greater than oil revenues can be used in the annual budgets. We believe that the investments from the oil revenues must be positioned so that they yield long-term returns. Stock speculation with the people's oil fund has so far failed, at the limit of scandalousness. More and more economists are critical of economic policy. The government should take that seriously. The Coastal Party is promoting three proposals, which are distributed in the Chamber. We hope that there will be a majority for the proposals, but that remains to be seen. In that case, the proposals will be submitted. The proposal to establish a national competence centre for the development of maritime industries in Haugesund is a follow-up to previous decisions and has no proceeds effect, the financial basis being proposed to be the bound seafarer’s fee within the net pay scheme. If the maritime forums themselves define the administrative needs, administrative costs will be kept to a minimum, because the industry is interested in making the most of the decisions contained in the Stortingen Premise of the Decision of 27 February. Development and research projects have already been launched with a longer time perspective than six months. The Coastal Party therefore requests the support of the distributed proposal in order to ensure greater long-term stability of the framework conditions, so that launched research projects can be completed and new ones started in line with the wishes of the Storting. When, in response to the Government's failure to comply with the Stortinget decision, the Shipowners of NIS only proposed to be covered by the net pay system, the Maritime Forums reacted along the coast to the Haugesund and asked the Maritime Forum there to be a speaker for the whole coast. The Coastal Party believes that this was a clear signal that the Maritime Nutrient Cluster needs an alternative speaker to the Shipowners’ Association, because the maritime clusters of the coast have a scope of cooperation that goes beyond the interests of the Shipowners’ Association. This is the background to our proposal. The background for all proposals relating to shipping is distributed in the representative shelves. My speaking time is not enough to elaborate on this, but the issues should be well known. The proposal for the phase-in of the Sabbath year is an attempt to exploit today's surplus of skills to stimulate older teachers to continue their efforts in school by offering them a year for filling their skills as an alternative to early retirement, while ensuring that young teachers do not disappear to other occupations until the large retirement age comes. All our proposals are an attempt to ensure broad competence and to prevent unemployment. I am addressing the proposals that we have made alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e896	The representative Steinar Bastisen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e899	This debate shows that the main objective of the Progress Party is to discharge the responsibility for the year's budget, for which they voted. The responsibility required to have influence and to have a majority in favour of its proposals is no longer within the competence of the Progress Party. The representative, Siv Jensen, said that the revision should sum up all the releases that had been made in winter. In winter, the party of progress has only submitted proposals on road construction that add up to approx. SEK 50 billion, including: Four-field road from Oslo to Trondheim. You don't get far north from Gardermoen by SEK 1.5 billion, as the Progress Party is now proposing. The representative, Siv Jensen, also said that the Progress Party had ‘refused the temptation’ to propose large tax reductions now. We have to take it as a little bit of a point of light in the debate, that in that party too we are now beginning to resist temptations. The treatment of the revised national budget takes place without the dramatic prospect of the Prime Minister’s saberrasling a few weeks ago. However, in one case there is a great deal of drama attached to the realities, namely the conversion of the system of lower employer charges in the districts. The Labour Party asked the Government to add to a broad discussion of this issue with the parties in the Stortinget, but the Government chose to restrict itself to briefings in the EEA Committee of the EEA. We believe that a broader contact with the Stortinget in such an important district policy case could provide a better basis, both to assess the possibility of exploiting the EEA Agreement’s derogation provision, which allows for a political assessment of exemptions from State aid law, and to assess the possibilities for a wider exemption than the Government now provides. It is good that the aim is to continue the current system for Finnmark and Nord-Troms as well as for fisheries and agriculture, as well as transitional arrangements in the areas where the lower fee is to be abolished. However, in the view of the Workers' Party, the Government has not fully clarified that there could be no basis for using ODA Protocol 3 in zones other than Finnmark and Nord-Troms. From the Labour Party, we would like to stress that the possibilities of maintaining a lower employer’s fee for industries where this is not a distortion of competition must be fully exploited. The possibility of using transport aid as an alternative measure must be exploited in all regions affected, and there must be provision for industrial policy measures where it is not possible to find solutions to address the cost increase in industries and individual enterprises. So far, the government has not presented a scheme for this. On the part of the Workers' Party, we will also stress that the increased tax revenue generated by the conversion is to be fully used for actions in the individual regions where the levy has to be increased. The measures envisaged must be permanent and not merely transitional. In the case of municipalities and counties, we assume that the lapse is fully compensated. Once the Government and the Advance Party have decided to remove the electricity charge for all businesses, there are serious problems for district heating development. Now, the Government is right to promise remedial measures, but it does not present a clear outline of what this should be like. As a result, district heating companies are being thrown into great uncertainty, and in many places the work being done is being stopped. Now the government can hope for a wet summer and harvest, so that the electricity prices will not be as high as last winter. But there is little doubt that the removal of the electricity charge for electricity will also lead to light and heat in the business world leading to increased power consumption and an even greater gap between what we can produce ourselves and the need. The bill will take the form of higher electricity prices for both industry and households. It is gratifying that the government parties join in the proposal to change the charging system for drug use, even if it will only take place from 1 January. It is no pleasure that the Christian People's Party today will vote against the proposal to increase the Brussels charge as early as 1 July. I would recommend the industry to put away the fight they are now warning against this fee. This industry wishes to be socially responsible when it justifies the desire for a lower alcohol charge that a greater part of its consumption should be passed through the normal distribution channels. That it also means that a greater part of the alcohol consumption will go through their accounts will be so. If they are going to run a campaign against increased charges for drug use, the fig leaf of social responsibility that importers are trying to cover up will disappear in the fight for lower alcohol charges in general. A number of countries have charged higher than beer to curb the consumption of this youth drink. There are several tax changes that cause problems, but it is because of the solutions adopted by the Government and the majority. The conversion of the waste taxes adopted by the majority last year has not been achieved by the Government. This concerns the levy on the energy recovery of waste, where it is still unclear whether ESA grants authorisation. If the solution proposed by the Workers' Party had been adopted, this problem would not exist. Nor has the legislation on the environmental approval of landfills been put in place without double bedtightness. Nevertheless, the new charging system will be introduced from 1 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e942	It is with pleasure that I record that the Government receives support for the main lines of economic policy through the consideration of the revised budget in Stortinget. A budget with a responsible framework is adopted. I note that the Government, with varying support, is getting a majority on important points. I registered that the head of the committee stated that the Workers' Party had made itself flat for the Government. I cannot register anything like this in the setting. Keeping the main principles of containment and responsible frameworks cannot be characterised by such expressions. The reason why the responsible framework is important is that high cost growth and strong crowns in 2002 and beyond weakened the profitability of Norwegian competitive business in 2003. The result is weak growth and increasing unemployment. The main challenge for economic policy has been and is to reverse these developments. We need to pursue policies to secure and create jobs, especially in the competitive industries. In this situation, it is important that economic policy incentives are facilitated by monetary policy. A tight budget has provided for lower interest rates and a weaker exchange rate. Since the government budget was adopted, interest rates have fallen four times, from 7 pst. to 5 pst. However, Norway still has a clearly higher level of interest rates than in other countries. The three-month money market rate in Norway is now about 1.7 percentage points higher than in the euro area and 2.8 percentage points higher than in the United States. Consequently, there is still considerable freedom of action in monetary policy. In a talk on 3 June, the Governor stated: ‘Financial policy now appears to be more neutral in overall demand and public consumption and employment are no longer growing. Financial policy – as presented in the Revised National Budget – therefore does not help to lock in the strong krona.’ In the same lecture, the Governor indicated that the period of monetary policy facilitation will last and that the Bank of Norway will consider taking greater steps in the reduction of interest rates. Lower interest rates mean reduced expenditure for households, enterprises and municipalities. It provides the basis for new growth. However, the assumption is that we continue to maintain tight budgets. The course has gone down, as we hoped. Since the turn of the year, the crown has weakened by 12.5 pst. against the euro. The decline in US dollars has been significantly less. Thus, overall, the effective price of the industry is now almost 10 pst. weaker than at the end of the year. In comparison, the crown effectively strengthened to about 16 pst. from the summer 2000 onwards. The world economy is currently poor, and Norway is not sheltered from this. In the last year, the Norwegian economy has developed weaker than in the past. The economic growth of mainland Norway is now estimated to be revised to 0.7 pst. in the current year and 1.9 pst. Next year. For the current year, this implies a decrease in the growth rate of well 1 percentage point since the national budget last year. New information since the revised national budget was presented confirms the picture of weak activity growth in the Norwegian economy. GDP for mainland Norway fell by 0.6 pst. in the first quarter of this year, following a corresponding decrease in the fourth quarter of last year. The decrease in electricity production may explain some of the decrease in activity. In addition, developments have been particularly weak for industry. The result is a weakening of the labour market. Employment fell by about 15 000 people over the last year. The registered unemployment rate has increased more than expected, and the development of job vacancies has been weak. More than 100,000 people are now without a permanent job. It's a tragedy for each one of them. This is why the fight against unemployment is the most important issue for the Government. It is therefore positive that we are now seeing the results of economic policy. The interest rate decline and the turnaround contributes to new optimism for the Norwegian economy. It confirms new forecasts presented yesterday by the Statistical Central Bureau. Under the heading ‘Low interest rates are being speeded up in the Norwegian economy’, the central agency presented estimates showing that economic growth is rising next year. According to the Agency's analyses, next year we will see that unemployment starts to decline again. The precondition for this to happen is that the Government will join the broad lines of our economic policy. There's no reason to change a rate that we're seeing now is giving results. The financial policy of the Government has provided room for interest rate reductions and the reversal of the krone price. If we were to follow the recipe to spend more money, the room for relief in monetary policy would be gone. This would undermine the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. The foundation of our welfare society would therefore also be threatened. There is also a need to focus on the long-term sustainability of economic policies. It is important to pursue budgetary policies from year to year that look forward many years in time. The country's liabilities relating to future pension payments are not reflected in current government budgets. The commitments relating to the age and disability pensions of the population at the beginning of this year amount to approximately NOK 3 400 billion. We are now estimating that the Petroleum Fund will amount to approximately NOK 800 billion at the end of this year, i.e. not more than one quarter of pension obligations. If we add together the net cash flow of future petroleum activities, we can estimate it on an uncertain basis to approximately NOK 1 900 billion, i.e. more than half of the estimated liabilities. This reality indicates that it is important to maintain the guidelines established for the use of oil revenues. We must pursue a policy that ensures the basis for the generations that come after us. Calculations of the generation accounts presented in the revised national budget show a significant need for tightening, between 50 and 75 billion kroner if the contractions were to be made over one year, i.e. 4 to 6 pst. of the total gross domestic product of mainland Norway. Other Western countries, too, will have an increasing share of older people in the population beyond the turn of the century. In line with this, public expenditure on old-age pensions is expected to increase in the whole OECD region as a whole towards 2050. While expenditure on future old-age pensions was relatively low in Norway compared with other countries in 2000, by 2050 Norway is clearly above the European average for old-age pensions. The difference is not due to the fact that the age structure of the population, i.e. demographic development, is more demanding in Norway than in other OECD countries, but it is due to the fact that more of the other countries have made more progress in reforming the pension system than we have. The government will return to a security reform of the Norwegian pension system after the Pension Commission has submitted its final report, expected in October this year. I also point out that in the revised national budget, we provided estimates showing that pension expenditure will grow faster than the value of the economy. Public health expenditure on old-age and disability pensions is now well 9 pst. of the total GDP of mainland Norway and estimated by an unchanged pension scheme and with wage adjustment of G to rise to nearly 20 pst, i.e. above double by 2050. While we take into account that future pensioners will also pay taxes, this implies that the future's active labour market must use a significantly larger proportion of its total income to pay taxes than is currently the case. Finally, let me reply to a challenge, a question from the representative of Hill-Marta Solberg about the health reform. The representative of Solberg said that the health reform has not been served by bringing individual decisions into the Storting from businesses. I fully agree with that. I can confirm that the Government in the budget proposal for next year will provide a wide range of information on health business performance and strategic plans for the coming years. It will also provide information on the implementation of adopted structural changes and their consequences. I refer you to the review given in St.prp. No 65 and the letter of the Minister of Health contained in the Innst. S. No 208. This will allow the Storting to discuss, in the context of the budget, the broad lines of the development of the structure of the specialist health service in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e977	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e980	The finance minister said in his speech that it was a tragedy for each of the more than 100,000 people who have now become unemployed. At the same time, the Minister of Finance specifically took developments in interest rates as income for a successful policy. I'm afraid, and I really hope that the Minister of Finance doesn't collect anyone's words about the fight against unemployment long before he's near the finish line! The revised budget outlines that the unemployment rate will increase this year and also into the next year. There may have been nuances in what the Minister of Finance said in his intervention instead. Is it the case that the Minister for Finance is adjusting to this point, or will he now confirm that his assessment is that unemployment has not reached the peak and will continue to increase in 2004?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e988	I did not adjust the estimates contained in the revised budget, and they also largely correspond to the new calculations that the Statistical Central Bureau presented as late as yesterday, confirming that next year we will be able to experience a decline in unemployment, but beyond this year we will be able to experience an increase. It is that when you see the first signs that economic development is turning toward improvement, then the first thing that comes is not the decline in unemployment. I stress that the trends in economic growth that we see are vague, they are cautious. They are also obsessed with considerable uncertainty about international developments, particularly in the United States, but also in parts of the EU. So we're going to be careful to collect this as manifest and very clear signs. But it's a sign that it works in Norway. Not least, we have received reports from the export industry, which are now beginning to put aside plans to move out, lay down and limit their workforce.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e993	When the Minister of Finance was a big business representative, he spoke very often about ‘harry money’. It was a concept used by the then wholesaler to describe the discovery proposals that were highly questionable. Since Per-Kristian Foss became Prime Minister, apologies to the Minister of Finance, he has been constantly looking for new and creative ways to spend money. So one of the methods is to balance budgets by increasing dividends from state corporations. It is well known that the state companies are given money under the heading, where they do not affect the balance sheet, and then you take the money back over the line and cover other expenditure increases. I would like to challenge the Minister of Finance for this and ask him to answer if he believes that the recovery of other increased expenditures by means of increased dividends is not a good money. Because he has previously raised this issue for many times.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1002	Dividends are for an owner good income, that, in line with others, and that one helps to recover some of the reduced income or increased expenditure in this way, I won't characterize as a cashier in any way. I've never done that either. I also record that the Progress Party is now at full speed away from what they meant in the budget last year, where they, together with the government parties, helped set up the dividend percentage of State power, which is now under attack. I think it's a bad method. The fact that companies are provided with significant increases in equity suggests that the requirement for dividends on equity also increases, as would have been done for any private owner. But since we are only in the time of the mimorring: as a former magnificent representative, I also remember the Progress Party from that time. I remember a party of progress that was for less public expenditure, for less government ownership, and actually to confirm that we were not going to use the Petroleum Fund for pensions other than pensions. It was times! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1013	The central bank manager has now carried out several interest rates throughout the spring, and he has also announced that new interest rates will be set, even larger than those that have been. This is just a confirmation that the monetary policy that has been pursued, especially last autumn and last year, was wrong. Most will now agree that the costs incurred by Norwegian industry and Norwegian households are far more than what should have been. In any case, the four fields mentioned in the mandate are not met: the inflation target has been far from reached, production and employment has gone in a completely wrong direction, and not least the crown price, already mentioned in the first sentence, has proved disastrous. My question to the governor, excuse the finance minister, is whether he is satisfied with the central bank's exercise of monetary policy. I'm recording that he called the head of the central bank into the Ministry of Finance. I think that's wise. But the question is brief: is the Minister of Finance satisfied with the enforcement of monetary policy by the current governor and his board?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1020	Halfway through here, I became both the head of the central bank and the prime minister. I don't know what to put the most emphasis on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1025	Yes, there would have been something.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1030	One of the parts, maybe. In answer to the question, I would say that the Minister of Finance and the Government have full confidence in the Governor and the manner in which he conducts monetary policy. But it's part of the system that you have to learn later from the assessments that have been made, and where they might not be completely kept. Prognosis for the future is uncertain. Saying something about how it went in retrospect is, to put it mildly, something safer than science. It is precisely in this process that there is a dialogue between the Norwegian Bank and the Ministry of Finance. It's as part of this dialogue we've asked the governor to explain the distance between forecasts and actual price developments. It's not like the governor's name is on the carpet. This is an ordinary way to communicate with the governor. The result shall be presented in accordance with the wishes of the Storting and the Government, inter alia. in the 2002 credit notification, which is thus coming to the autumn, where you will learn from the assessments made. I think someone and everyone can benefit from that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1037	We have well found that the government has given up what many think is the most important district agency, that is, differentiated employer fees, because it has been said from the EU that hope is to be said, and then we jump. So you try to cover up how this really turns out. We know that a differentiated employer fee is available to be used specifically, and we know how it has worked. According to the media, the Minister of Finance has stated that the loss of a differentiated employer’s fee can be compensated by lower pay demands. Is it really the way to understand that the Government believes that regional policy instruments should be compensated for by the fact that the rural population is going to fall into wages and thus have a lower standard of living than the one in the centre?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1044	There were two misquotes in the post that was kept here, and therefore they were not reproduced as quotations either. But then the false, highly misleading statements become contrary to actual circumstances. One is that the Government has given up the differentiated employer’s fee. No, it's the result of an order that is widely known through our EEA Agreement, and that neither a central party government would escape in any way. I register that the Center Party is the only party that has given us the advice to run this to court. It has an overall business life warning against, as the district industry will then be in a situation where two to three years later you will have to return money that has been paid out in the years that have gone by. That would be disastrous, even for the district industry. The second error in the post was the claim that I should have claimed that lower salary demands and lower standard of living should have been promoted. I have not made such an opinion, it does not believe so, and therefore it is also misleading for the debate to bring it in. We shall make arrangements to compensate for the loss of the differentiated employer’s fee as far as possible under the current legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1053	I noticed that the Minister of Finance in his contribution also responded to a challenge with regard to health businesses, which I presented to the Government earlier today. I saw it as a positive response that the Storting should have a review of adopted structural changes in health businesses and discuss the structure of a planned notification. The Minister for Health has requested in his business decisions that the implementation plans be submitted to him by 1 November and before any changes are implemented. I must then understand what the Minister of Finance said, so that when the Stortinget gets this in connection with the budgetary documents, that is to say, before changes are implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1060	I can confirm – on the advice of the Minister of Health – that the Stortinget will be presented in such a way that it is possible for the Stortinget to influence the long-term plans. At the same time, there is reason to stress what Hill-Marta Solberg said in his first post today, namely that individual decisions for which each health business is responsible should not be brought before the Stortinget. It has the majority of the Stortinges in connection with a Document No. Eight proposals stated earlier that there should be clear boundaries between what is brought into the main hall and what is the responsibility of the Council of State and the business meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1066	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1069	Unlike the Government, we in SV have an offensive commitment for business in our budget proposals, and it should only be lacking with the high and rising unemployment rate that we have. There is simply no lack of unsolved tasks in our society, and then it makes sense to link important tasks that are not done with the unemployed with the right skills, and not least to ensure that those who are unemployed or who are out of work retain their skills, through the means of various research and development programmes. Our efforts are largely directed towards industry, fishing industry, travel and research. We're adding the very largest pot into the SND, plus 400 million. It is important to focus policy on stimulating the emergence of competitive jobs based on new ideas or innovations that will drive the economy forward. Support for SND will help to overcome the increasing unemployment by helping business to convert and at the same time ensuring many new, sustainable and profitable jobs. A type of conversion is the development of competence through research and development contracts. SND support has proved to be important for the implementation of the project and helps to trigger other funding. As a result, SV and the majority increase this item by 35 million. kr. The majority increase the Fund for Research and Innovation by DKK 1 billion, and the government party has happily joined this. We're also zeroing out the cut on the Research Council of 53 million. kr, and records that the government party is also good at going back on it. And I was going to say, "That should just be missing." The amount was already substantially disposed of through binding commitments, and would have led to monthly skepticism in business to later bet on R & D, because one would have noticed that one could not trust that the Government is fulfilling its obligations. And they are right in that, because one cannot achieve the OECD target by the end of 2005 by cutting off the path of research. In the primary industries, there is also a need for conversion, both will and responsibility. On Monday this week, the Stortinget adopted structural measures for the coastal fishing fleet, which will have a major impact on this fleet, and the commitment to conversion and development is even greater than in the past as a result of its decision by the majority. SV is on a total package through SND of 125 million. kr for fisheries and aquaculture, where innovation, conversion and capacity-adjustment in the fishing industry are strengthened. We'll allow money for a loss fund, and we'll put in $50 million. kr to a State guarantee scheme for operational credit in the fishing industry. All of these are good suggestions, and we're very happy that they get multiples. Of course, SV has a stake in the part of the business that deals with alternative energy. We haven't forgotten the power crisis from this winter, as many didn't have alternatives to electricity for heating. We're spending 200 million. UKR into ENOVA, which, through conversion to renewable energy, will provide several thousand new jobs. While we are concerned about this with electricity: The government has presented a proposal for a change in the electricity charge that is about exempting all businesses from electricity tax. This gives rise to different competitive conditions for alternative forms of heating and energy sources. It won't be profitable with the development of district heating systems, and not least it will lead to an increase in power consumption that will enhance the already existing sub-balance. For the power-intensive industry, this is serious. PIL has entered the Danish solution, which the Labour Party and SV in this setting have asked the Government to look at. I would like to ask the Government to evaluate the Danish system in the further work on the state budget, and give the Christian People's Party a special responsibility for getting the Government on track. They have expressed themselves entirely in line with the Working Party and SV mean. So finally another thing, which has to do with our relationship with the EU: the cancellation of the differentiated employer fee. SV is very much pleased with the work done by the Government so far, neither in the case of exemptions for industry that do not compete across borders, the ODA mechanism, the maximum notification of transport aid or the creation of structural funds within EU legislation. In a letter to the ESA from the Government as late as 5 June of this year, the transport aid has not been proposed, no exemptions have been applied for from the industries that could have been granted, no evidence is still available for the exemption for agriculture and fisheries, and no new arguments are put forward for the continuation of the Nord-Troms and Finnmark schemes. It is totally unacceptable for SV if we do not use the possibilities contained in the legislation we have to comply with. It's going to be a disaster for business if the government doesn't think otherwise, and with a completely different motivation, it's going to go into that work in relation to ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1095	So it went better than many thought. We're revising the state budget, and we're making some, but not many, changes. Many would say – and rightly so – that we are making some improvements in an already good and correct budget. The starting point for the revised budget this spring was lower tax input, or lower revenue than estimated, and higher expenditure. It has been one of the challenges for the Government at the time of its presentation and for the State in the process. But all the main efforts in the 2003 budget are made. It is a historic commitment to health, and to aid to the world's poorest. It is a tight budget that takes the challenges of securing and creating jobs seriously. There's a big investment in the construction of new kindergartens. It is gratifying that there has now become a total agreement on a plan for the construction of kindergartens for everyone and for a lower parental payment. It is not a either–or, but a both– and, first of all, a strong expansion, the lower price. This is the family party Christian People's Party well pleased with. Important pieces have fallen into place. It's a victory for the families of children. There is more money allocated to upgrading school buildings. There is increased employment in construction, but it also gives children and young people a more pleasant job. The Christian People's Party has now been implemented in Stortinget to strengthen the support system for secondary education students. In the examination of the state budget in the autumn, the Christian People's Party was an important driver in order for the Stortinget to commit itself to the care of the outreacher's grant in the transition to new scholarship schemes for high school students. It has now come into place in the 2003 budget. A significant increase in grant allocation has been adopted, especially for students from families with a weak economy. In order for pupils from low-income families to be able to take secondary education, they need to receive increased scholarships. The new aid scheme is an increase of 400 million. kr from the 2003–2004 school year in relation to the current scheme. This effort will significantly improve the students' study everyday life. The disembarkation grant continues as it is today. It means a lot to young people and families in the districts. In addition, the aid scheme will be based on needs testing against income and wealth, and the aid scheme will take into account expenditure on learning material. Need tests can be used to provide both basic and educational scholarships. The training grant tested will replace the low-performing loan scheme of the Workers' Party with a system that really prioritises them with the greatest need. It is a great victory for the Christian People's Party that there is now a majority in favour of an increase in the charge of so-called intoxication. At the time of the submission of the 2004 government budget, the government will significantly increase the cost of drug use. Rusbrus has become a decoy drink for young people down to the age of 12 to 13 years, especially young girls. Studies show that young people who drink cannabis do not reduce the intake of other alcohol and that when they drink alcohol, they drink relatively large amounts. The Christian People's Party is seriously looking at developments in relation to drug use, and is therefore pleased that there is a majority in the United Kingdom to use the tax to combat the incidence of drug use. The question has been asked whether ESA will accept such a charge. For the Christian People's Party, this is too important a matter for us to now present legislation that has problems with ESA. We will therefore now use the time to avoid a scheme in line with the ESA guidelines, which makes the shower more expensive and therefore less attractive. Tax deductions on gifts to non-governmental organisations are a good investment in volunteering, hard work and welfare work in our country. It is therefore gratifying that there has not been a majority in favour of removing tax exemptions for gifts to non-governmental organisations, as proposed by the Labour Party. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it would have been totally wrong if savings were to affect Freedom Norway. Finally, in the Christian People's Party we are concerned with family and care. In this budget, the Christian People's Party has had many important issues – important both for family and in terms of the concept of care.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1123	Two days ago the Stortinget St.prp was treated. 51, Means for an innovative and innovative business. The proposition was transmitted in the spring from the Government, and among other things. given the labour market situation and the need for an even better instrument by industry in Norway, the matter was dealt with at record speed in the Committee. But a well-organised tool must have money, otherwise it is not much worth. Otherwise, they can't help reverse the current and create new jobs that we so badly need. That is why, in the Labour Party of this revised budget, we have presented a package of measures against unemployment, how many of the elements are just filling in the pot of the instrument. It is gratifying that the majority in the United Kingdom agrees with us, and so we have had a positive impact on many of our proposals. I'm starting with SND, which has a very important role to play. We proposed to increase the grant to the Landwide Innovation Scheme by 125 million. kr. This item shall be used for innovation and conversion. We have chosen to be quite focused on these appropriations, so that they can be put in where we believe it is possible to get relatively fast growth of jobs. I have to admit that I'm keeping a button on the nationwide innovation system. It can be used throughout the country and can be used by industry across the regions. We have chosen to focus on some areas within the possibilities offered by this item and have therefore chosen to give priority to the following areas: support for the commercialisation of research results, development of competences and support to start-ups of 50 million. kr a new culture-based business development programme, SEK 5 million. SEK new industrial design programme, 5 million. kr Map of the programme of industrial design: Design is becoming more and more important in product development. It is shown, among others: to which products win in the struggle for the international market. On the Design Day, which is arranged every year, a number of products are presented for good design, and interestingly, not only waiters, glass and furniture are being pulled in. In 2002, good design was awarded, among others: a car chair, a lighting mast for road lighting, a starting loop for starting cars and a roller for older people. I could have mentioned many more exciting products. We have to get even better at focusing on this, and to that, we need money. Travel life is another area in which we can get much better. In 2001, the Norwegian Tourist Council developed a stepping-up plan for the promotion of brand construction of Norway as a travel destination for 2002–2006. This was developed after the signals given by Stortinget in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 15 for 1999-2000, the profitable and competitive tourism industries. The problem is that the Tourist Council has not received any more money, but instead has been cut. Travel life is workplaces, and there are jobs all over the country, both in Asker where I live, and in Røst in the north. When we now propose to increase the post Grants for the international marketing of Norway by 10 million. kr, it may not sound so much, but for the Norwegian Tourist Council it means that they have the opportunity to market Norway internationally in the winter coming, and they have the opportunity to follow the escalation plan. Together with the industry itself, they will be able to invest even more in international profiling, which I have learned is the will, after participating in conversations with them about this. Travel is an important industry, and it covers, as I said throughout the country, in addition, important women's jobs. The Tourist Board, in its plan of escalation, says the following: ‘In the long term, a positive national reputation will be essential for the successful export of Norwegian culture, nature, knowledge, competence, goods and services and tourism. Substantial strengthening and coordination of national efforts in this area is essential.» On Wednesday, the Stortinget decided to integrate the Norwegian Tourist Council into the new Innovation and Internationalisation Unit. Together with the SND, SVO and the Norwegian Export Council, the Tourist Council will now have a wish fulfilled, as they have also rewritten in their plan, namely the coordination of public efforts. With a little more money for innovation, design, culture-based business and international marketing, this should provide an even better starting point, even if the unit is not yet in place – and at least not tomorrow. It's so much I could have talked about when it comes to the proposals that we've got a majority for, but time is running out. But just one thing to the last speaker: I am so agreeing with the heart in the case of raspberry. It's great with a fee increase. Then we have to put in place measures to make less and less use of this product.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1162	International recessions are also marked in our country and have, among other things, As a result of increasing unemployment, unemployment is not high compared with international conditions, but where we have to return statistically to Gro Harlem Brundtland's government only in the 1990s in order to find a higher figure. Then it was in return considerably higher, without any comfort for those affected. The fight against increasing unemployment has therefore been and will continue to be a priority task for the Government. Business needs to be able to employ more people. It is necessary to facilitate the establishment of new enterprises, the expansion of existing ones and the strengthening of competitive industries. This must be done on a broad basis — across the country, in all industries, in all industries. Therefore, it is primarily the general framework conditions that need to be improved in such a situation. Therefore, through a tight fiscal policy, the Government has arranged for us to have an interest rate reduced towards the European level. The reduced interest rate difference weakens the pressure on the krone price, so that the Norwegian competitive industry gets better conditions. Policies work. In addition, the Government has been actively involved in income policy cooperation with the social partners in order to achieve a moderate settlement, and has also succeeded there. Conducting a tight and responsible fiscal policy to improve the general framework conditions is not a passive exercise – on the contrary. With an increase that tends to increase the cost of further welfare measures, this is a demanding exercise. When the revised budget is adopted this afternoon, it has retained its tight profile in relation to expenditure growth and its additions are in a responsible and sound order of magnitude. At the same time, fiscal policy over time has not prevented a significant decrease in interest rates over a six-month period, an increase in expectations and a decrease in exchange rates. The budget review will provide the basis for further positive developments. The call to pursue a different budgetary policy, to spend more money, to increase expenditure growth, has been legion, not least from the changing majority in this House. Many have wanted to distribute negative characters to the Government here today. The only negative that you actually see is minus $20 billion in taxes and charges, minus 2 pst. in interest rate and minus 10 pst. in the average currency swap for Norwegian kronor so far. Reductions in taxes and taxes are a central framework condition for business and therefore also a key prerequisite for better employment and to avoid unemployment — at least increasing. It is therefore discouraging to see that in today's debate, two of the parties that are marketing themselves as the leading front-line soldiers against unemployment want to increase the taxes on business in such a situation. The working party will increase the tax by over 650 million. kr. The address note is mostly for Norwegian business. The Socialist Left on its side takes more in and increases taxes by SEK 1.6 billion and reintroduces, among other things. tax on dividends on shares. Is this what is stimulating business, as the representative of Grande Røys gives the impression in a line today, or is it the targeted instruments she's talking about? Or is this tax increase the first part of the national effort on which Øystein Djupedal is involved? The head of the Socialist Left Party, Kristin Halvorsen, thinks about a chronicle in Tønsberg's magazine the other day about business policy, and says that tax on dividends does not affect businesses and business, just the owners. The owners are, as I understand the party's policy, immaterial in business and value creation contexts. We have 420,000 companies in Norway. 95 pst. of which are small or very small. Try to tell these owners that increased taxation of business-related income does not matter to their interests, to their relationship to their own and to the establishment of jobs and new businesses, which is what we want in the situation we are currently in. I also understand that the party's leader is of the opinion that taxing business owners more strongly is a good preventive medicine against individuals buying expensive cabins in Blindleia, at Home or where it might be, or having too many cars. Such a lack of knowledge about the context of business and the everyday life of small businesses is sympathetic. It is very little suitable to raise the efforts of business owners to increase employment, because the increase must also come from there. We need our business more than ever. In any case, we cannot adopt state aid measures out of unemployment. The workplaces need to be created and the value created needs to be increased. It is absolutely necessary for the welfare society for which not least SV is the warmest spokesman, and is always prepared to use new public billions to increase its size.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1183	As almost everyone here says, the great challenge we are currently facing is the fight against the increasing unemployment. The Bondevik II government has apparently not made any distinction with any offensive industrial policy, except to repeat this with tax relief and the need for a tight fiscal policy. On the contrary, we have experienced reductions in tools and targeted measures. At the same time, the life expectancy of unemployed people is worsened by the number of day-careers, the reduction of daily pay, the reduction in pay-out time and the higher income threshold for daily pay. Nor was the proposal for a revised national budget designed to improve the situation in this area. Before the presentation of the revision, three documents were presented. 8-proposals, by representatives of the respective SV, the Progress Party and the Labour Party, on different measures to combat unemployment. Let me, quickly, as the spokesman for these matters, acknowledge them: the setting in all three cases is that the submitted is to be attached to the protocol - a reference to the treatment of the revised. In its alternative to the revised national budget, the Labour Party has promoted measures to combat unemployment for DKK 1.2 billion in order to fight unemployment, strengthen competitive business and create a basis for new jobs. This we got to notice within the same framework as the government had set up. If the Government and the majority of the budget had not given priority to large tax credits, most of them to owners of capital and those who can best afford to pay taxes, the scope of action for measures would be much larger. But there's a limit on how much you can change in tax terms in the middle of the year. During the deliberations of the Financial Committee, the Government's proposals are more important when it comes to measures to combat unemployment, even if they are very close enough. The Labour Party's wishes have been echoed in some important areas. SND is being strengthened to a large extent, with a nationwide innovation scheme for, among others. commercialisation of research results, support for start-ups, a new industrial design project and a new cultural-based business development project. When it comes to culture-based business, there is a lot of positive going on, but there is a lot of untapped potential. We also need an offensive state enterprise policy in this area. The Minister of Industry was challenged in an interpellation debate on this, but got away from it. It is therefore gratifying that the entire committee now agrees that SND should develop a dedicated programme for this and that 5 million will be allowed. kr in year. Culture is an important tourism product, but travel life also needs stronger international marketing, so it is important that support for this is now increased compared to that provided by the Government. Research and development contracts are strengthened by 35 million. kr, so that SND does not have to reject good projects that could lead to a build-up of skills and increase profitability in companies in the future. There are several numbers for the construction of several national road ferries, among others. gas ferries. The fishing industry will be strengthened by 40 million. kr more to SND's innovation and conversion programme and to the marine innovation programme. The risk loan loss fund in the industry will increase by 65 million. kr. Net pay arrangements for offshore vessels in NOR will be in place. There will be more to racial protection and to the promotion of priority university and high school buildings. We have received many input from businesses that access has to be granted to extend the period of leave beyond 26 weeks. Many industries are very seasonally focused, and others have little work to do for the time being. When people have been on the list for 26 weeks, cancellation is often the only option. This is why professionals also lose the skills they need in the next round. It is therefore important that the Government now avail itself of the possibility of granting a derogation from the 26-week rule. Then much more can be done, even within the same frame as the Government has placed itself. It shows the Workers' Party's proposal. We have proposed 140 million. kr more for regional development. It will strengthen the county’s role as a regional development actor and provide greater opportunities for local food funds and industrial development, even outside the central areas. We also propose extending the loan frame to SIVA and the strength of Enova in relation to what the government has provided. There are not many actions in this room. It is very bad that we do not get a majority for the requirement for 3,000 new sites for action, with 2000 of them to be within the scope of in-company training. The untimely cuts in the order of business are also not reversed. Nor is there any number to expand the lending frame to the House Bank by 2 billion kroner. Now, when we find out that the Progress Party is criticising the Labour Party for its lack of will, I'm a little surprised that they're not with us to get multiple numbers for more of these suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1215	For the government parties, the revised budget is primarily about the fight against unemployment. Unemployment is a social problem. Flagging, closures and redundancies are very dramatic both for employees, for management and for owners. Competitive business wears down and reduces manning. The reason is fairly clear, there are high dollar rates, high wage increases, high interest rates and high cost levels elsewhere in Norway. In such a situation, it is the government's duty to take responsibility, and the government has taken responsibility. The main steps are: a tight budgetary policy that reduces the level of interest and the rate of interest. The Government has made clear budgetary priorities in order to achieve this negotiation with the social partners and an agreement on a moderate wage settlement. Gaining control of wage growth is essential tax relief of DKK 20 billion, which has mainly gone to business to increase research and development appropriations and tax credits for business research and development. This creates new jobs in the long term traditional measures such as increased resources for Aetat, SND-directed incentives, more flexible rules of leave, money for the construction of school buildings and gas ferries, more marketing for travel life, more for racial protection, etc. All of this has been done within a responsible financial budget framework. The positive now is that the Government's actions are working, and that we have achieved a significant impact of the measures taken to reduce unemployment. You don't see it on the unemployment figures, but you see it on the framework conditions for business. The interest rate has now been reduced by 2 percentage points since we presented the State budget for 2003. Since the turn of the year, the exchange rate has declined by about 12.5 pst. against the euro. Wages and salaries for 2003 are moderate and clearly break the high wage growth rate in recent years. In total, this increases competitiveness significantly for business. Earlier this week, the Export Council published statistics showing increased exports of traditional goods in seven of our counties. Exports increased by 16 pst. in Rogaland, 15 p.m. in Hordaland and 12 pst. in Westfold, to mention the three best states. The Council of Exports states just a weakening of the krone price as the main reason for the progress of these counties. Similarly, statistics from the Statistical Central Bureau show that the export figures for the process industry for the May month were the best since June 2001, with DKK 9.5 billion in export revenue. Here, too, the crown price is highlighted as a contributing cause. Yesterday, in its short-term analysis, the Central Statistical Office could confirm that low interest rates are accelerating the Norwegian economy, and that interest rates will continue to decline again. These are good signals. There are signals that give hope that firms that are struggling and that in these days assess the future in Norway can decide to continue to stay in Norway and perhaps postpone or cancel cancellations and redundancies. There is hope that the trend will reverse, and that the growth in unemployment will stop and be replaced by increased employment. The response from the professional communities to the revised budget was also quite unambiguous, the tightness of the budget contributes to a continued decline in interest rates. So when we see the impact of budgetary policy, when we see the communications from industry, from the Council of Exports and from the Central Bureau of Statistics, there is no doubt that the government's efforts and the priorities made by the Government provide a better framework for business. On the other hand, it is frightening that the opposition parties almost continuously require measures which, in sum, may halt this development. The repeater is a variety of ‘packages’ where the public is to grant additional appropriations in areas that may increase activity. Many seem to believe that the state can afford out of the problem and replace lost jobs in the industry with public jobs. Such an approach would be dramatic for the export industry because it would maintain the pressure on both interest, currency and wage growth. It is very special when the left-hand side actually resorts to tax increases for business to finance measures for business. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left propose, in the revised budget, increased taxes on business, including: by tightening the split model, increasing the wealth tax on shares in a number of enterprises, increasing the tax on options in employment and double taxation on dividends on shares. It is in business that unemployment is increasing, and to me it is quite incomprehensible how the left side should fight against increasing unemployment in business by increasing the burden on hard-pressed enterprises. In fact, the Socialist Left presents this with increased tax on dividends as one of the grips of the Socialist Left Party's industrial policy. The party therefore considers that increased taxes on equity do not affect business. But the proposals to increase taxes on equity come from parties that will set up billions of funds to support businesses that are struggling with just access to equity. The proposals come from parties that complain each time a Norwegian company is sold abroad as a result of weak Norwegian ownership environments, and from parties that have just asked for NOK 10 billion more to a single company to ensure national ownership. For business it doesn't matter how the box is tapped. Values disappear regardless of the tax method, and thus also the basis for increased value creation and employment in Norway. This is why there is a significant difference between how the government parties and the civil side behave in relation to the fight against unemployment. The Government has adopted a tight and responsible budget for 2003. I am pleased that this will continue in the revised budget as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1267	If there's something we don't need anymore in this country, there's more unemployed. One of the most unsafe things we humans can experience is not having a job and not knowing how to pay our bills. That is why it is so important for us in the Labour Party that the proposals we are making in the revised budget are linked to preventing more people from becoming unemployed and creating more new jobs. At the same time, it is important that all those who have already become unemployed are offered employment through labour market measures, and not least that we try to correct the unfair cuts made by the government parties and the Progress Party to the unemployed when the budget for the current year was discussed. It's amazing how busy the government is of increasing unemployment. For them, tax laws apply, and only tax laws apply. Although the Prime Minister now this week has suggested that it is now enough tax havens, the Minister of Finance is staggeringly silent. The right must also soon realize that tax relief does not help the companies that have gone bankrupt. Instead of appreciating the budget for the current year, the Government of the Expert Committee’s investigation was to serve as the basis for the Government’s assessment of the competitive industry situation. Meanwhile, jobs disappear, and the Minister of Industry says that all he has is an empty toolbox. From May 2002 to May this year, unemployment has increased by 29pst. Without comprehensive measures, unemployment will continue to increase. Aetat expects unemployment to continue to increase both this year and next year. The central statistical agency states that improvements will not be made until 2005. This is in stark contrast to what Mr. Sanner claims. In the line change with Siv Jensen today, he said that there are now reports from the business community that things are going a lot better. The forecast says that 200 people lose their jobs every day in June. The working party does not call this ‘better’. No, unfortunately, the dark developments continue. Ask the employees of Elopak in the smoking industry if they feel that it is out of flagging, when the board said the company is moving to Finland on Wednesday. Some of the measures launched by the Workers' Party in the context of the revised budget go to SND. It is important that the good arrangements that exist are expanded by filling in with instruments. The Workers' Party is opposed to the Government's proposal to cut 50 million. kr on the economic framework of county councils for regional development. Here we're going to increase by another 90 million. kr. We also want to increase the lending framework to SIVA by 300 million. kr. The Labour Party believes that the gas from Norwegian socket should be used to create new industries and more jobs here at home. The State must participate in the investment in new infrastructure and research and development. We take up again our proposal that a state investment company should be allocated NOK 3 billion in equity. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority in favour of this proposal in the Chamber. With the problems we have in the shipyards, we want to give the ferry companies commitments to support four more ferries in 2003. The ferry companies that replace conventional ferries with ferries operated by natural gas believe that we should have significantly longer concession periods for the routes in question. Not only in the shipyards is the situation difficult, but also in the fishing industry there are major problems. As an emergency measure to ensure the reception of fish, it is in our opinion necessary to establish measures to ensure operational credit for the fishing industry. We reopen our proposal to provide a 200 million guarantee framework. kr to the fishing industry and grant 50 million. kr to a loss fund. These are some of the few suggestions we're making. What a sheep does in a revised budget is limited. Liability for 29 p.m. The increase in one year's unemployment is with the Government, with the support of the Progress Party, as they are responsible for the year's budget. It is these parties that are also making sure that the unemployed still have to live under worse conditions than if the revised budget of the Workers' Party had been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1295	As others have also said, it is gratifying that the reading of the revised budget has become what it should be, namely the revision of the budget, and not a new, complete budgetary round. And it is gratifying that the revision will be adopted within a responsible financial framework. The best contribution the government can make in the fight against unemployment is just a tight budget, with lower interest rates and weaker crowns as a result, and improvement in the company's framework conditions, among others. through tax relief. Now I understand that not everyone in the room agrees. Hill-Marta Solberg even said in a reply earlier today that tax incentives have no significance for the creation of new jobs, so it was quite good to increase the taxation of business by NOK 0.5 billion in the middle of the year. I note that the Workers' Party's talk and previous wishes to strengthen the private Norwegian ownership no longer apply. Sin for Norwegian business and jobs! Competitiveness needs to be improved and value creation increased. With the Cooperative Government, progress has been made in the right direction. In cooperation and dialogue with business partners, wage growth has been moderated this year. Interest goes down – up to now by 2 percentage points. More could come. The crown is weakened. Taxes and taxes have been greatly reduced – in two years they have been reduced by 19 billion kroner, half of which are for businesses. This shows that the government is doing something about the basic problems, and seems to be succeeding. For example, the combination of interest rate cuts, weaker crowns and international rises that Longva in the Statistical Central Bureau says to the Evening Post today that he ‘sees brighter prospects for the Norwegian economy’, and he continues: ‘The interest rates will be a strong stimulus and play an important role in increasing activity in the Norwegian economy.’ The Labour Party's criticism that the Government is doing too little is therefore a bit hollow, not least when it is known that with Stoltenberg as Prime Minister, the conditions for Norwegian companies were greatly exacerbated, interest rates went up, the crown increased, and taxes increased. The Labour Party is right at one point: there is a difference between who is in government. The party of progress is an interesting party. They have as their primary objective a «strong reduction in taxes, levies and public intervention». Nevertheless, they systematically vote for proposals that increase public expenditure and thus reduce the possibilities of lowering taxes and taxes. More and more of the proposals they previously opposed are now in favour. Torgeir Höien, who sits in the central government of the Progress Party, has said so eloquently: ‘For each task undertaken by the State, the risk of lowering taxes and taxes is reduced, which in turn affects the freedom of people to choose. We will not increase, but reduce the power of the state in society." He has not received the last rounds, because more and more proposals they opposed in the past, they now vote in favour – I should almost say, if this entails public expenditure. The only systematic thing about the Progress Party is that they're changing their perceptions systematically. But there will be no less state and greater freedom for the individual of it. It seems that the time when the Right and Advance Party agreed is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1318	Today, the Stortinget revises the government parties and the Progress Party adopted last autumn. That means we're not going to adopt a new state budget, that means we're going to make adjustments to a budget Progress Party and the government parties were passed before Christmas. It is obvious that the room for action to change the budget is limited in the middle of the year, when one has started spending money on the various budget lines, and when opportunities to do things on the revenue side of the budget are very limited. However, it is good to remember this, because when you listen to the debate, especially on the part of the Progress Party, you get the impression that they are almost unaccountable for the budget that has been adopted. They voted in favour of the budget. What we are doing now is revising – adjusting – a budget The Progress Party has voted in favour. Work for all is the main objective of the Workers' Party in economic policy. The more worrying we are when we see that unemployment is growing. Only last year's unemployment has grown by nearly 30 pst. This is the story of a marked increase in unemployment. A coordinated environment of trade union economists warned of increasing unemployment, and the Ministry of Finance announced increasing unemployment in the budget last autumn. Nevertheless, there were too few and too weak measures against the increasing unemployment of the government parties and the Progress Party, and the result is that unemployment is growing rapidly and steadily and steadily every month. We proposed major measures to combat the increasing unemployment of the Labour Party in the budget we submitted last autumn, and we have proposed measures in relation to the revised budget, which is now under consideration. It's true that interest rates go down. That's good, we're all happy about that. But there is no doubt that the main reason for falling interest rates is the rise in unemployment, and the objective of economic policy must be that through income policy, through budgetary policy, we succeed in getting interest rates down, not that there is increasing unemployment that brings interest rates down. The Workers' Party is committed to pursuing an economic policy that provides a basis for lower interest rates and a lower exchange rate also in the long term and over time. That is why we have been committed to having responsible budgetary frameworks, now, as in the past. In addition, we have proposed a wide range of other measures to help reduce unemployment. We want an active industrial policy, an active labour market policy, as opposed to the inaction we see from the Government in these two areas. We have proposed a package of measures to combat unemployment and have received a majority for parts of it now in the review of the revised national budget. We're happy about that. But we regret, of course, that we did not get a majority for the rest, nor did we get a majority for more extensive measures against unemployment last autumn, and of course we will follow it up in the ordinary budget coming autumn. The actions we have highlighted at this time are more for innovation, re-establishment, by strengthening research, development, government and public instruments such as: research and development contracts, State R & D funds and other public instruments that can facilitate innovation, start-ups, business. The second is targeted at particularly vulnerable sectors — tourism, fisheries, but also the engineering industry, among others. by entering in order to build new ferries, and we have also taken part in some of the measures relating to construction, school construction and the House Bank. The third is active labour market policy. Sometimes it's referred to as almost passive, somewhat inferior. But we think that one of the finest things we can do once people have become unemployed is to make sure that they get the skills, training, have a reason to get up in the morning, and that the authorities then offer them a labour market measure like a bridge back to work, so that we avoid that leave leads to permanent exclusion of people. That is why, as one of several elements, we are placing an active labour market policy, and we regret that the government parties and the Progress Party have voted it down at this crossroads as well. Within a budget framework that is responsible, we have prioritised, in addition to the fight against unemployment, measures for pensioners. We follow up on the promise that pensions will be regulated as wages and salaries develop. We believe that the government took completely unnecessary rematches by creating two uncertainties, both in terms of post-regulation and in terms of whether pensions should grow in line with wage developments. But the government has accepted defeat. They lost the first round, they lost the second round, they played something called revish – lost it too. But the pensioners have got their money.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1333	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1337	We all agree that the fight against unemployment is important. The government has presented its solution, namely to provide tax relief to business and a tight budget with a view to bringing interest and interest rates down. And it works. Now it's like in economic policy it takes time before things work. I have two questions for the representative Stoltenberg. In the autumn of 2000, his government provided a budget with significant tax relief for business. When the competitive business reacted, but received the following response according to the daily newspaper on 7 October, by Kjell Opseth, a prominent representative of the Workers' Party: If they cannot live with these charges, they get so friendly to cancel people. My question to the representative Stoltenberg is therefore: From what we see today, with competitive business and downsizing in industry, was it a deliberate election the Workers' Party made in the autumn of 2000? Or was the analysis of the Workers' Party wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1344	It is strange to hear representatives of the Right saying that the main measure to combat unemployment is a lower tax. And then they say it works. Well, we've probably never had as much tax relief after the war as we've had in the last two years, and not in many, many years, unemployment has grown as strongly as it has in the years when you've given so much tax relief. So if it was the case that lower taxes would give lower leave, at least history has proven that it's completely wrong. We have had strong tax cuts and strong increases in unemployment. It is linked to another point on which the Right is entitled, namely that we should have responsible budgets, and the problem is that we give too much tax relief, it is difficult to keep responsible budgets. That's why the Right has worn it out. Right should have had tighter fiscal policies in the past. At that time, they had avoided the sharp increase in exchange rates and interest rates – it had at least contributed to the dampening of the exchange rates and interest rates. When we had a tight fiscal policy in the autumn of 2000, it was precisely because 1/2 pst. cyclical taxes are far preferable to losing control of the exchange rate and the increase in costs, as has been done in the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1349	What characterises the treatment of the revised national budget is that the Workers' Party has laid its ground before the Government. Everything that was said earlier about local economy and extensive measures to combat unemployment shines with its absence from the Workers' Party. There are proposals that, if the Labour Party had voted in favour, would ensure far, far more in the fight against unemployment, among other things. by providing road construction and construction services, and also in other areas, including: in the case of the municipalities. During the examination of the revised national budget last year, the Workers' Party prioritised increasing the population grant to municipalities. At that time they also had money for the municipalities during the revision. This year, you have a burden on how bad it should be, and now the Workers' Party refuses to secure the same income for the municipalities as it was supposed to have from the budget adopted. Tax revenue is falling. My question to Jens Stoltenberg is: Will the Workers' Party continue to claim that they represent Kommune-Norge when they vote a suggestion of NOK 1 billion more to the municipalities, when they voted for more money to the municipalities last year, in exactly the same situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1356	I think it's good to remind the representative Hagen that it's Hagen's budget, the budget he voted for, we're now revising. In that budget, too little money was allocated to the municipalities. We had NOK 3 billion more for the municipalities when the budget was adopted. It didn't have the Progress Party. We've added 3 billion kroner to the municipal bill, where we're dealing with the municipal economy next year. So both for this year and next year we have significantly more to the municipalities. What we have done in the review is that, within the limits of the review of the budget, but not re-adopted, we have given priority to measures against unemployment. And if that's how Hagen thinks it's too small, it's nice that he doesn't vote for all of our proposals today. He is voting against several of our proposals, not least linked to an active labour market policy in terms of skills and qualification of the unemployed, and he is standing by the cuts in the unemployment allowance of those who have become unemployed. We have proposals for many measures. Hagen has voted against many of them, and Hagen must now soon take responsibility for the budget he voted for last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1368	The behaviour of the Workers' Party related to the local economy is strange, I must say. Here they really had the opportunity to fulfill one of the most important promises to their voters, but they have not chosen to do so. But that's what the Workers' Party will answer for. It is saddened by Kommune-Norge, and it is saddened by the many, many people in Norway who could have gotten it a little better – if not much better, so a little better – one billion dollars is, after all, all money, too. One of the last governments that Stoltenberg did was make a change in monetary policy. This has now worked for over two years, and it has not been a success for any reason. In all the four areas specifically mentioned in the mandate, the Governing Council and the Governor have significantly bombed. This has contributed strongly to the difficult situation of Norwegian industry, has contributed to the strengthening of negative pessimism and has contributed to greater unemployment than we would otherwise have. My question to Stoltenberg is basically the same as I asked the Minister of Finance: Is he satisfied with the exercise of monetary policy that has taken place under Gedrem, on the basis of this amended mandate that he has received?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1377	I'm optimistic. The world is moving forward, and the cooperation with SV and the Workers' Party is developing more and more. Now also Øystein Djupedal has come to the realization that 1 billion is «money, it too». [[Laughter]] We have redispatched SEK 2.2 billion in the revised budget and found money for pensioners and for measures against unemployment. And then in the budget for this year we found 3 billion kroner and in the budget for next year we found 3 billion dollars. But we have not found it in the context of the revision, simply because it is not a new budget. It's a revision, and then we had to give strict priority within the framework we had. As far as monetary policy is concerned, the short version is that I am not concerned about the guidelines, but I have been more concerned about their practice. It is true that everyone — many in this room, but hopefully many in Norway’s Bank — has learned from the experience, and you have to keep it with you the next time we get the kind of pressure at interest rates and at interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1386	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1389	The most eye-catching thing this spring is the behaviour of the Workers' Party. I really find reason to congratulate the Prime Minister on the success of his many opinions that were perceived as threats to or warnings of a possible cabinet issue in relation to the revised national budget. I myself spent the whole winter shooting record, along with the Government, for the 2003 budget decision, despite having it as a subsidiary budget. There have been no limits to how ill this budget has been with regard to the local economy, with regard to the eyes of the Workers' Party, and with regard to some other welfare schemes. In the autumn, we will vote for the budget as one package vote. So in the spring we can rectify any damage caused by the budgetary procedure in the event of the harvest. We had therefore expected, when Jens Stoltenberg and others in the Workers' Party were high on the track and created expectations of a better local economy and a rematch on some of the welfare arrangements, that they would make suggestions. We expected comprehensive measures to combat unemployment in the construction and construction sectors and proposals for appropriations. There will be no maintenance and construction of schools, nursing homes or roads with a lower crown price and a lower interest rate. It is the budget that governs it. Therefore, it is only to note that the threats worked, and that the Workers' Party has laid down completely flat and accepted the same framework as the Government. It will be interesting to see whether the Workers' Party also applies exactly the same framework as the Government has chosen when the budget procedure for the harvest comes. It would be interesting to get an answer to that. We have, in fact, as the only party that stuck to what we did, even though it was subsidiary, in terms of the local economy. We have been informed in the revised national budget that the income of the municipalities through the tax entrance will be approximately. One billion dollars less. Then we take responsibility and grant that billion. Then it becomes for the local economy as it was originally meant from both the Government and us in the subsidiary budget we voted for. The situation is now that the Labour Party and the government parties are exacerbating the municipal economy in 2003 by DKK 1 billion at the vote later today. I also want to bring out the winner in the revision. For all other areas, including health services, hospitals, etc., the government has the opinion that what has been adopted is to be kept, and if it appears that more money is spent than there is coverage for, there is a tightening of legislation and other things that are being changed, for example. the unit price of the hospitals with retroactive effect or comes with another index to prevent hospitals from being paid what they were promised. However, with regard to immigration policy and asylum policy, where it is early seen that the budget can be blown up, there is no tendency to tighten up the regulatory framework, even though we know that it is working. We can see that from Denmark, which has been tightened up. The Progress Party has recently made a number of proposals for action in this Chamber, which have been implemented in Denmark, with the result that the influx of asylum seekers in Denmark has fallen radically, the number is now just a few thousand. In Norway, last year the figure was about 17 000, and it is still likely to be a significant figure — so significant that 1 billion more is allocated to this in the context of the revision of the budget. That's a pretty amazing priority for the other parties here. We do not understand that here too we cannot tighten up the legislation and show any ability to keep the budget within its limits. Then there's something that's really fun even in the case of the Workers' Party. A few days ago, we agreed that it makes sense if State power gets an increase in equity because they're lost for equity. Yes, we were involved in the harvest by giving subsidiary support to it, because we can't separate out the elements we think are completely hair-removing stupid, it doesn't work. But at least we haven't done it completely voluntarily now, as the Workers' Party does when they increase the yield from State power by 482 million. kr. It seems like one year you want to grant equity under the line to have a place where you can collect money over the line the following year. And that's tricking the population. That's why I'm saying that the actual budgetary impact is a gap of well over 800 million. kr, probably more than twice if you go in and look at the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1402	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1405	One of the most interesting things that happened in winter was that the leader of the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen, said at the national meeting he would stop criticising other parties. Afterwards, he was to concentrate on telling us about the Progress Party's policy. It lasted a few weeks. Today, both Siv Jensen and the representative Hagen have spent almost all their time dissolving everyone else, and they have told very little about what they themselves intend to do. In a way, it's also okay, because then we can do it again. It is not surprising that the Workers' Party is holding the frames. We did that in the state budget last year. Then we had exactly the same frames as the Government, and we have exactly the same frames as the Government now. The difference is that last year we redoed over 7 billion kroner. Then we found money for many good purposes. Now the amount is NOK 2 billion, simply because we are in the middle of the financial year, for example. cannot use dividend taxes as a source of finance. This means that the framework is smaller than the level of change that can be made in the middle of a financial year. The Progress Party knows that, and the Labour Party knows that. Therefore, the changes are less now than in the ordinary budget decision on the harvest, and that is also why we have less for some purposes than we would otherwise like.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1412	If I don't remember correctly, Jens Stoltenberg boasted last year that he had even tighter frames than the government. And given the usual effects of fiscal policy, it would mean that unemployment could be even higher if you just looked at it. Otherwise, there's a mistake here, Stoltenberg. I said in my national meeting that for once I would use the national meeting speech just to talk about the policy of the Progress Party and not anyone else's. I haven't cut myself off from the opportunity to do what Stoltenberg does all the time, namely, just to criticize others. I also knew that it would not be possible, because we actually also want to repeat all the untimely and false attacks that Jens Stoltenberg has been using throughout the winter. Then we have to start telling the truth about the Workers' Party. And the truth about the Workers' Party is that the Workers' Party, along with the government parties, prevents municipalities from getting one billion more. Otherwise, I notice with interest that, as far as the framework of the State budget is concerned, Stoltenberg has no opinion. He's just doing automatically what the Government decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1422	There's a lot you could pick up, but it might be interesting to have a little more fundamental discussion with Carl I. Hagen. This is something that is very important in the revised national budget of the year. It's about how we settle the social security bill. The other parties ensure that the social security system is covered by cuts in the budget, on the assumption and on the basis of the recognition that if we all want better welfare in this country, we must join forces to cover the costs. There's Carl I. Hagen coming out. My question to Carl I. Hagen is: Does he not see that by doing what the Progress Party constantly does, taking money from the oil fund, the Progress Party takes money from the generations of the future? Does he not see that it is our children and grandchildren who will have to bear greater financial burdens than is necessary in the policy pursued by the Progress Party? Is Carl I Hagen happy with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1431	With regard to the proposals of the Progress Party – both in relation to the budget last year and also to our proposals now – they have one device, namely to improve the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy, to raise growth. If we don't get an increase in economic growth, that's going to be the big problem in the future. That is why we must make some investments in the future. We need to provide a necessary infrastructure and also improve the capital supply to the private Norwegian industry, so that we can increase our growth capacity. There's no designation of the future, we'll say, social security payments. And we admit openly that when the situation from last fall to now has changed with an estimated 20,000 more unemployed, and many arrows point downwards, we believe it is irresponsible passive to pay people unemployment benefits in order not to do anything. Then it's far better that we use something more of our gigantic surplus to pay people wages to build roads, maintain schools and build hospitals, than that people passively just have to receive social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1438	It's approaching choices again. The safest sign of it is that Carl I. Hagen starts talking about refugees. I'm not going to ask him about it now, because then he just gets to talk about it one more time. I'll ask you something else. We have behind us a winter and spring of great concern in many communities about proposals for the decommissioning and closure of hospitals and health services. Food departments and emergency services in districts in many places in the country have been proposed. And now several decisions from health businesses, on closure and degradation, have been given a preliminary opening by the Minister of Health at the business meetings. While the Progress Party usually has a high level of cigaretteing in health policy, it has not, however, lifted its finger to intervene and has not supported the proposal for political consideration of these proposals, which have been promoted here in the UK. With reference to the hospital reform, the Progress Party sits on the sidelines, while people around the country argue for their health services. Suddenly, the moral anguish and the wandering point finger are gone. The SV and the Central Party are today promoting a proposal for an impact assessment of these reduction and closure proposals, and the question is whether the Progress Party supports that requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1449	Let me first refute it on immigration and asylum policy. As if we were not to point out and say so, when, in strict frames from government, SV and the Workers' Party, priority is 1 000 million. kr more for that purpose, when you cut the police, cut the defense and cut the road maintenance to get it to! There is no one else who dares to mention it, because then of course you have to have a very bad conscience. Someone has to dry out, and it's dry. In the case of hospitals, we have clearly stated that what is professionally sensible and justifiable to do in terms of a hospital structure, we must support that. But if the lack of money and the poor economy in terms of change is used as a reason, we won't accept it. We closely follow the Minister of Health's activity in relation to the business meeting. But it is only after the Minister of Health has made his decisions that the Stortinget, as a follow-up check, may come in.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1456	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1459	There are probably some signs in time that indicate that the Storting will soon need a small vacation, and there are not so many hours left either. I think we can make a debate that is marked by a lack of faith in the future and optimism, which does not belong in one of the richest countries in the world and in one of the world's most beautiful countries. If you get out of this house, you see how irritable Norway can be, how lucky we are that we have all the resources we have, and for example. How much water do we have? A lot of countries are struggling with water supply and clean water, and a lot of the conflicts in the world are going to be about the fight for clean water. I wanted to start by saying that, because we in the Stortinget have a very great responsibility to make sure that we don't draw a picture of Norway, of the Norwegian economy and of the opportunities we have, which makes people lose their courage. There are many signs that suggest that we should gather about some broad, important promise in Norwegian policy. As unemployment increases, it is important that we take advantage of the opportunities we have and deploy resources. The starting point is that the worst thing a society can do is waste people — with or without competence — getting out of work. That's why it's completely backwards that we have a municipal economy that is so tight in many places that you start saying people that you really need, around the municipalities. This is now true in relation to some schools and in other areas. The money we had to spend to care for the growing family doesn't exist, and it goes the opposite of what many would want. If we can't both describe what's wrong, and also point out the possibilities that exist, I think many others, outside this hall, won't take advantage of the possibilities that actually exist. Now the Stortinget has been made up after a major election in 2001. We have a bourgeois majority in the Stortinget. That means we have a Right-Maintained Government, with a Prime Minister from the Christian People's Party, and they are largely at the mercy of the Advance Party. No action can be taken by the electorate until 2005. It demands that we be able to work together on some important issues until 2005, or should we spend our time every six months setting in motion major ‘hulabalu’ and struggles, spreading the pessimism that sometimes prevails in Norwegian policy? There were many who said that the kindergarten agreement – doing something like that – was the most hair-driving thing ever done in Norwegian politics. And it's true that it was kind of done. But this has led to NOK 5–6 billion more to the kindergarten sector and a reform that people have been working for for for 30 years – perhaps not all the parties on the Stortinget, but later it became all-round. One has managed to get an obligating majority to work out a kindergarten reform that provides space for everyone, and with a maximum price. It's a big boost. If you can think further along that axis and think about school, and especially high school, next time, you can get something in that area as well. And then, as a third case, you can try to solve the unemployment problem, not with the 1950s solutions and yelled about the heavy pipelines and the heavy pipelines, but with emphasis on what is sustainable in the long term, with environmental jobs. What this Greatness is not going to agree on is the distribution policy. It is clear – the right and the SV do not agree on point 1, which is the objectives of the distribution policy, and point 2, which is the instruments of the distribution policy. I guess that's the area where the differences are going to be greater. That's where we've experienced the most petty defeats, with cuts in the benefits of the unemployed and increased excesses as a result. We're going to take that fait every day in Stortinget. If we get the lice right in place by appealing to the bad conscience of the Christian People's Party, we'll do it. But I guess the distribution struggle will be one of the most important until 2005. What's going to happen if the Storing can gather around some broad, important settlements is that we indirectly defend some right-wing policies. It's clear that if we tie a part of the billions that the Right through the Sem Declaration has committed the Government to use for tax relief, and most of all to those who have a lot from before, then we can make sure that we have freedom of action in the future as well. SV is going to continue the constructive tone that we've been trying to cultivate. We're not always going to be able to do it with the same amount of luck. Let's do this self-criticism on our own behalf. But I think, in fact, that if people don't most people see that we have a huge majority that can gather on some of what we think is important, and what we're all going to talk about in the election campaign until 2005, people lose respect for politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1483	It is interesting that SV tries to place themselves in the centre of Norwegian policy, and they have money for many good purposes. However, the incidence is not always as good. In the revised national budget, they propose to cut 830 million. kr to the snow-white development which is under way, so that it must be described as monopoly money. More seriously, they want a lower rate of oil exploration and investment. It would be serious for the supplier industry, which is struggling. Unfortunately, the SV is also opposed to the creation of a company that can bring the gas ashore in Norway and provide the basis for industrial exploitation of the gas also in us. It could provide a basis for industrial development in line with what we have had through the development of the oil industry over the past 30 years. It would create the faith of the future and optimism that Kristin Halvorsen called for. It could also contribute to sustainable development in the long term. So I hope that SV, which is now reorienting itself to freedom and Europe, can also reorient itself to value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1490	It is true that SV did not agree to grant NOK 3 billion to a company that could build gas pipelines from the base and into mainland Norway. But there won't be very many pipelines of the proposal that the Workers' Party has put in place, either. Let's be so sober that we admit it. This includes, among other things: because it is going to be difficult to raise private capital to invest in that type of pipeline, because it is not obvious that this is very economically profitable investment either. It is simply so that if you want to have profitability in these pipelines, you have to have an innumerable number of gas power plants at the other end. And it's like the companies that so far have asked to build gas power plants haven't. So they've been allowed to build three, which it hasn't worked out, because it doesn't pay off. But we are also in favour of this policy for environmental reasons. There are many more jobs to bet on renewable alternative energy. That's what's the solution for the future. It's not the hard pipe and the heavy cube that's going to secure us in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1497	The representative, Kristin Halvorsen, is talking about both energy research and workplaces within this area. When it comes to practical policy, I still thought it was a little bit of a failure. Here's one of them. a proposal in the field of energy research, on top. 1830 heading 50, where proposed 20 million. kr. This is a proposal behind the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party. So that means that SV could have secured multiples for this 20 million. kr for energy research if they had joined it, but they do not. Then my question to Kristin Halvorsen is: Isn't SV taken up by energy research? Or is there any other reason why SV does not win the plural for this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1506	When you're in an interview with the finance committee, there's some tricks you can take. You can, for example: come five over twelve with proposals that you know you could have received a majority for if one came five to twelve. And this is just such a kind of a suggestion. This is an area where I think that if you had given yourself a little bit more time, and if you had wanted to achieve results, you would have been able to find a majority for a common effort that had actually led to an allocation in the Stortinget. But it also happens that if you come up with a proposal five over twelve, you come up with a proposal that you really don't want any results from, but you want to fly around a little bit. If this is a field where you have the opportunity to get a majority later, then we in SV are of course open to discussing it. This is a field that is prioritised by us. And if we're going to spend a lot of money like this a little bit over time, I actually think we can do things in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1514	SV is basically unbalanced in the monetary policy regime as a plurality in the Stortinget stands behind, and has, at several levels, produced this as the main cause of its problems. However, I believe that SV is also agreed that a well-functioning business is an important concern for both growth, development and well-being. From a broad range of sectors of the economy, both on the labour market and on the employers' side, there is a strong demand for a tight financial policy approach as an important tool to curb the pressure on the crown and on the interest rate, thus strengthening the very basis for growth, development and well-being. My question then is: Does the representative Halvorsen and SV mean that those who require this are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1523	We believe that those who claim it, once again close one eye and blink half way again the other. There must therefore be more perspectives on policy. We think it is strange that monetary policy has not been much more focused. Many competing companies received a 10 pst mark-up at the last price because they have been driving so hard on this. The Governor has now admitted that he has been too strict, but we should have had a much stronger emphasis on the element of the mandate of the Bank of Norway to pursue monetary policy on the basis of unemployment. That would make a lot of sense. Bombing on the interest rate is not something you can kind of risk with. It has such great consequences for the Norwegian industry. We believe that one should not look blindly at the tightness of a budget. Industry and business are completely dependent on offensive efforts in terms of skills, research and risk capital for businesses that are initially unable to achieve this in the private market. Here is a balance that makes it not necessarily the tightest budget that is the most efficient budget for industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1532	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1535	We hear a lot of talk about people being insecure by day. People are uncertain about their jobs, and they're uncertain about the world economy and how he's going to affect Norway. At such times, it is important to be able to rely on politicians to do their part in creating security. Our common political challenge now is unemployment, as many have said here today. Before the revised budget was presented, LO Leader Gerd-Liv Valla challenges politicians to make their share of the job for the unemployed. She warns against a slight populism in the fight against unemployment. Citation: "We can't spend money now, it would ruin everything we've got and push the interest rate up again." We get a budget that is more responsible than many fears in the past. The government has shown some action. That's what the Storting has done, by being realistic. A user with less than 800 million kr more than the government had provided, and that is to live with. The government, together with a responsible increase, has been given a tight budget, in solidarity with those who are unemployed or who are at risk of losing their job. Now we've got a framework that allows us to keep going. I'd like to praise the Grandfather for that. So I'm going to come up with something that Kristin Halvorsen has drawn up both in the «Position» recently and in the hall here today: the will for more cooperation across the board. I think the way we talk about each other, the way the representative, Halvorsen, refers to the government and the 'cold blue', and the way the media sometimes portrays the opposition, does not tend to create respect outside. I'll take one more thing. When the representative Stoltenberg says that it's not the government's policy that makes interest and the crown price go down, but the unemployment, it's part of the truth, but it's not completely erased. If we are to believe the economic disciplines – if they are very collective in any case – the judgment is clear and also with the governor: the government's policy is the main reason why interest rates have fallen. Think about whether the representative Stoltenberg and we in the government party could agree on this: it seems that unemployment and the international economic cycle, but provide me with also the government seems to be its policy! We take "tran", with bitter and heavy cuts, and then we see that it works. If we talk true about each other, as one of the ten bodordas says we should, I think it would give me more respect for us politicians out there with people. The representative of Halvorsen wants more cooperation. Yes, I think it may be a thought, but under two premises. One is that everything has to fit into a totality in relation to the frame. If we just take one area and see what's best for it, and we don't put it in a context, it doesn't make sense. Therefore, the recipe of the representative Halvorsen must contain some more items in one way or another. How do we take care of our health when we work together in areas by area? In the Danish population, they have a practice where one of the major reforms has been made until they have been able to work until a quite broad consensus is reached. I think it's pretty good, but then one must have time to wait. If the government says there's a lot of intentions we have to look at, yes, the government has to get access to it. One must not do as one did in the first round of the nursery arrangement: insert statements where one goal is counterproductive. Now it got a good solution, but if we had time to work to a deal along the way, we could in the Storting, as it is composed, have behaved in a way that had created a greater understanding out there. So the only way to do this is to put this in a whole box. The second requirement is that we also have to look at the use of resources within a sector. I agree with the representative, Halvorsen, that the school is one of the areas we're going to look at. But it will once again require that there are two things we have to do there as well. The only thing is to create a content reform that further strengthens the school – we agree – and then we have to do a good job for the buildings. One says all the time that the school buildings stand and fall into decline. But we're doing a good job for the buildings. First, the government did a lot, and then the Storting has done even more. But once again, we need to look at the use of resources we have today, whether it is possible to redispatch a part, as we actually have good resources to use in an international context. Once again, we have to be willing to do both. So it applies to welfare policy as a whole. When we get the Pension Commission's proposals to the fall, it will show that we need to work on a change called'reliable welfare policy'. And when we're going to make a viable welfare policy, we have to be willing to look at both what we need from general, broad schemes, and what we need to target more. It's also a common challenge. That challenge I hope we'll be willing to take, and that we're not just going to jump after each other and come overboard.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1559	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1562	The representative Lilletun is a well-meaning human being. At least he'll have to. I think he's overestimated even if what he says and thinks, and that's good. There is waste of resources that there are so many unemployed today. It's approaching 100,000. It's the biggest waste. Then it's not like the representative Lilletun says, that people know a security for what the Storting does. When Lilletun tells us to show solidarity, I agree with that. But does Lilletun think that the almost 100,000 people know some kind of solidarity when the Stortinget, the government party together with the Advance Party last year, cut into all the measures that made them feel some security? Now the government party had the opportunity to fix this again. They now see that the number of unemployed people is going wrong. Couldn't they have been doing something about it now?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1571	First, I want to thank you for a description that I thought was okay. It's not bad when we can give each other descriptions as an actual experience as well-meaning. So I think the representative of Frøiland was injured to talk about two different things. To bring down the number of unemployed people, there are two things we can do. The only thing is that we actually have a tight budget, which provides the basis for the jobs. I'm not going to supplement it anymore. The second is measures that we saw in the work, and the benefits that we give. Last year we were criticized for two things. One was that we cut down at a time when you can get unemployment benefit, from three to two years. It turns out that it was professionally sound, and it has been said from more and more countries that it was wise for us to do so. And then we did a lot of things about the performances. I have said that I am not overconfident that everything we did there was completely targeted. There was no more money within the frame we had then, but I have said that the Christian People's Party is willing to join in and look at the devices for some of those arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1582	So far in the public debate on the revised budget, the representative, Mr Lilletun, has called attention to the rush, so much, in fact, that he has eagerly leaked from the internal proceedings of the Financial Committee, despite the fact that the committee's own members were equipped with self-imposed silence. The government’s current concern is to prevent young people from drinking more alcohol. As a result, with effect from the financial year 2004, the levy on cannabis is to be increased. My question to Lilletun is as follows: Does Lilletun believe that an increase in the charge on cannabis contributes to increased or reduced revenue for the state fund? Because if there is any correlation, it is thought that an increase in the tax will reduce the consumption of cannabis. It is at least the arguments put forward by the government parties. In that case, it would have to mean lower taxes on alcohol to the State. But most of the proceeds we see go in the direction of increasing the income of the state's treasury by means of an increased tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1591	I do not expect the representative Jensen to follow on with what I mean about the revised budget, but I have to say that it is very selective when she only discovered that I am busy with the noise. My exposure has probably been somewhat broader. There was no leakage. I said what the government party would go in for, and what the Labour Party had previously said publicly. I'm overindulging that intoxication is a new example of cynicism from people who will make young people use more alcohol. The next grip here is, in fact, creating a rush, for further fixing the grip on drug abuse among young people. The main foundation of the Christian People's Party to go in to increase the fee is that it will bring down the consumption. The fact that the Treasury will also benefit from it is not stupid either. But that's not the main reason why.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1600	One of the most important things we need to work together on, but, unfortunately, as Lilletun doesn't mention one word about, the differentiated employer fee has been abolished. SV has worked a lot on that matter, and we want to create multiples for the Government's proposals. Unfortunately, we can't see that the government's struggling so much, and at least we're not impressed by the correspondence that has taken place with ESA in the matter. The level of ambition is not high, the information of the Storting has not been satisfactory, and it would be unnecessary for us to force information out of the Government in such an important matter, so to speak, to experience that we get another type of information from elsewhere, which is the opposite of what the Government is saying in letters to us. Can Jon Lilletun give a simple explanation as to why the Government is not interested in exploiting the legislation that is actually there, and the possibilities that lie in the legislation that we have when it comes to the compensatory measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1607	I would like to distance myself from the problem that the Government is not interested in exploiting the possibilities there. Previous governments have worked on this – and the current one – and I believe that it is foolishness on the part of the EU not to accept something that is so unbureaucratic, simple and sensible as our employer tax system. That's the first one. So it turns out that it's hard to get to. This means that at least we have to have two thoughts in our head at once – and maybe more. One is, we can't create such a bureaucratic system that there's going to be a boy that no one can find out. At the same time, the system must take care of industrial workplaces, it must take geographical care, and it must take care of the environment. The government will continue to work on this, but it is clear that the government and government parties are interested in a wide dialogue on the Storting to find good solutions to the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1615	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1618	The examination of this revised budget has shown that there are several parties in this Chamber today who are occupied by the increasing unemployment rate. And that's important when we're in a situation where almost 200 people lose their jobs every day. Our most important task then must also be to prevent unemployment from being allowed to get stuck at too high a level. The centre party is concerned about this issue, and we believe that the state should be able to use its financial strength in three areas in particular. One is to contribute to access to capital for Norwegian enterprises and businesses, the other is to contribute to knowledge building and development in the Norwegian community, and the third is to invest in construction, road maintenance and other measures, among others. on the transport side. We're committed to an active co-operation between state and private without having ideological contradictions between the two. We also think that there is reason to use the country’s financial position to safeguard local well-being — what is about taking care of our children and our elderly. I must say, however, that I am somewhat disappointed with the Government's recipe for growth and well-being, and that the only government seems willing to discuss in a situation where action is called for in relation to unemployment, industrial development and well-being, the only thing with which the government has the ability to meet it, is the question of tight budgets and the subsequent hope of a fall in interest rates. I also think that that phrase is beginning to wear out a little, when we see in the hall today that one krf after another stands up and takes the credit for almost everything that has contributed to making this revised budget a little more expansive than the government provided. It appears in itself like a paradox. I think there is reason to question the monetary and financial policies that have been pursued in recent years. There is reason to put a critical search light on the alleged knife-bearing relationship between tight budgets and interest rates. The 2002 government accounts showed that the government budget deficit was DKK 10 billion higher than budgeted, but this did not prevent interest rates in the economic situation in Norway from falling in winter. The point is that while the relationship is relatively obvious in terms of the more expansive aspects of the budget, and that it can increase the pressure, it is difficult to quantify this pressure. Thus, it is also absolutely impossible for the government to be able to state what is the correct tightness of a budget, and I have not seen it clear to this day either. Instead of having an intolerable debate on the tightness of the budget, I think we should have a debate on the challenges we face, among other things. in relation to unemployment and to industrial policy. And I think some of the government's problem is not that they have the wrong business policy, but it's the absence of an active and targeted business policy. It's also the absence of the ability of a critical debate on monetary policy developments you've had in the last year, which has undoubtedly had many unfortunate aspects, and which is probably an experiment we can't afford to repeat in the way we've seen in the last year. In the proposal for the revision, the Government went in to take a rematch on several issues, including: net wages and salaries of seafarers, pensions, housing allowances for young children’s parents and kindergartens. Usually a rematch is played after a draw, but in these cases there was a clear increase in number. And I have to say that that's something that surprises me, it's not only the rematch in the revised, but also that the individual states councils in several debates this past week have almost asked cabinet questions from this chair in relation to whether they want to implement, and will carry out, what the Storting actually has adopted. The problem with these kinds of fights is also that they attract attention and make budget management focus on losing weight, instead of going into time and discussing the current challenges that we now have to deal with, the current economic situation we are in the middle of, and the current challenges. In addition, it is said that it is constantly to deal with the great majority of people who doubt parliamentaryism – it is now possible – but I do not overlook the fact that in some cases there is also a lack of craftsmanship. The centre party and SV have today made proposals to get on the table the consequences of the savings measures proposed by health companies, which will go far beyond smaller hospitals. And I am surprised that the Labour Party and the Advance Party are not willing to support such a proposal. If it is the case that one of the Workers' Party will not contribute to bringing individual cases into the Stortinget, I must be allowed to ask a question to the Workers' Party: How many hospital services should be built down before the Workers' Party finds out that this is a matter that should be discussed in the Norwegian Storing?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1640	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1643	The centre party has had much the same opinion as the Labour Party in terms of work and employment. This has come to terms e.g. by means of the Municipal Committee, its extensive work on such issues during this session. The rule is that the same main course has been used for the two parties in these two key policy areas. The central party has previously been involved in the work against the government's unsocial changes in the agenda. It is therefore incomprehensible that the Centre Party is now embarking on a new course. The party broke out of the cooperation that one has had with the Workers' Party and SV on these areas. The question to the representative Arnstad must therefore be: what is the reason why the Central Party does not support the proposal to provide the unemployed with the same benefits as they had before the restrictions on the day-to-day arrangements? And why do they go against increasing the number of action sites by 3,000?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1652	It is true that in many ways the Labour Party and the Centre have the same starting point as regards the desire to prevent both the increase in unemployment and the commitment to active economic development. The reason why we do not agree with the proposals that Sandal refers to here is that, among other things, believes that the overall financial framework for which we stand — and where we are also using significant increases in resources in relation to the Workers' Party, both on the industrial development side and in relation to the creation of new activities — would have reduced the need for the number of places of action. What we think is most important now, in fact, is that money is spent on creating new businesses, creating new jobs, and then trying to prevent part of the closure of business that we now see. I want to point to some special areas that I think are important. One is that we are going to have high compensation of employees in this country. I don't think either the Workers' Party or the Center Party want to reduce the compensation of employees to compete with the rest of the world. But then we have to focus on a targeted industrial policy that highlights our priority. One of the major shortcomings of the Government's arrangement is that they have no willingness to that kind of bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1659	ESA has decided that we cannot keep the differentiated employer’s fee or the electricity charge as it is today. It may be an expression of the EU’s ‘foolbox’, as Lilletun said, but it does not help to characterise it as such. In its note, the party of the centre writes: ‘This scheme listens to Norway’s ideal requirement is maintained by the same. ‘... That's probably wishful thinking, too. SV has tried to see what kind of opportunities we have to put in place a system for the electricity tax that can work fairly, which can help maintain jobs in industry, and which should not hit the ground during an environmental effort on bioenergy and alternative energy. We have therefore looked at the Danish system – not necessarily at the level of fees, but at the technology – and we are a little surprised that the Senterpartiet does not share this view. What, then, is the Central Party option?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1675	Let me say that I share SV's view that the Government's plan to remove the entire electricity charge is unfortunate, not least environmental, because it will remove the incentive to switch from electricity to heat in this country. It will remove the competitive advantage as part of renewable energy, inter alia. bioenergy has, and is very unfortunate in this context. I am also concerned that the powerful industry and the process industry should be given the possibility of further exemption from electricity charges. I think that's important. The central party's primary position is therefore that we should simply take up that fight. After hearing the Government's response to the differentiated employer's fee, I am far from sure that the Government has actually used all the possibilities available to tackle the fight. I think it's just too early! Therefore, the central party's primary position here is that we should maintain today's system, which is the best, and then perhaps the Workers' Party and SV's proposals regarding the Danish fee can be a possible two. But I think the problem with the system is that it can be administratively and bureaucratically quite difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1684	This was essentially quite interesting, because the powerful industry has an exception today. What will now be exempted from electricity taxes is all that is not heavy industry. So it's about shops, businesses in general, hotels, restaurants and whatever else. These will now be exempted from the electricity charge, in the order of NOK 2 billion, which the State loses. In addition, this will lead to an increase in energy consumption of an estimated 3 TWh, i.e. equivalent to six Sauda extensions. So that means that it's not possible to think that you're going to be able to do this in a reasonable way. So the Central Party chooses to say that's the position we have, we think it's just fine, instead of being able to push the Government to put in place a system that, after all, is a little bit better. This means separating energy in the process industry from that which is hot – the Danish have a system, which is also recognised in the EU system. There's no ideal system, but the point is that the system we have, that system is definitely gone. The government then chooses to lie down and say that these two billions, these three TWh, we're just going to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1691	I'm a little uncertain about what kind of conflicts the representative Øystein Djupedal wants to add up to. Our view cannot in any way be taken into account for the government's view. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Djupedal, that the government's view, exemption from the entire industry – the whole business – is unfortunate. In my view, this is primarily unfortunate in relation to the effort that should be made in Norway to move from electricity-based heating to other energy sources. This is a competitive disadvantage, especially for bioenergy, which could have been a major investment in Norway. We have almost as many opportunities for bioenergy as we have on wind and on some other renewable energy sources. So it's clear that purely environmentally, the government's proposal has a terrible impact. My point is that we should have taken up the fight to maintain today's system, because, like the system of differentiated employers' fees, it is a sensible system. It is a system that can protect part of the industry that is most district-based, most vulnerable, and that we also want to be linked to the communities concerned in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1698	The President would like to remind you that speaking time is 1 minute when it applies to lines. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1704	In examining the revised national budget, the Government has adopted the broad lines of its budget line within a responsible framework. I'm glad. Through economic policy, we have taken major steps to secure well-being and employment in Norway. But we're a small country with an open economy. The development of the international economy is of great importance to the economic development of us. We can never completely isolate ourselves from the effects of setbacks on our trading partners. We are affected by lower demand for our export products and financial market turmoil. Our best insurance against the effects of bad times out there is to keep order in your own house. The government has done so through the budget that is now being revised. The fight against unemployment is a major concern of the Cooperative Government. High interest rates, high interest rates and increasing unemployment were the serious situation when the government provided the budget for this year's last harvest. For us, the challenge was clear: the negative development had to be reversed. The necessary medicine was also ready: the budget had to be tight enough. We would then facilitate lower interest rates and exchange rates, which are essential for securing and creating jobs. We passed the race. The medicine has worked. Since the adoption of the budget, interest has fallen 2 percentage points. Everything indicates that more is waiting. The crown has fallen almost 10 pst. this year. As a result, the competitiveness of enterprises has been strengthened. In addition, we have adopted tax reliefs for business. The conditions for research and development have improved. Thus, we have made a significant contribution to increasing profitability, growth and new investments. Municipalities will gradually notice that interest expense is less burdensome. Young people in the start-up phase and others in high debt have received better advice. 2 pst. interest decrease means more than NOK 20 000 net to route with for those who have a loan of SEK 1,5 million. kr. As the effect of lower interest rates and weaker exchange rates spread in the economy, activity and employment will be stimulated. The Government follows the rules of action for budgetary policy. However, this year's budget heading does not involve mechanical application of the rule. Nor has it been the intention of the guidelines. The budget means that we are now spending more than DKK 14 billion more than the expected real return on the capital of the State Petroleum Fund at the start of 2003. The budget threshold related to lower tax revenue and increased daily cash payments is not included in the revised budget. It is therefore not correct, as some claim, that budgetary policy is passive in relation to a situation where unemployment increases. Before examining the revised budget, I said that the budget had to be kept within a responsible framework even after the audit. The good results we have achieved must not be overlooked. I made it clear that we would not negotiate the responsibility. I find that we have succeeded. Today we end another year of work in Stortinget. I note that the Government has had an impact on the broad lines of its policy. Examples include: increased efforts in the fight against poverty at home and outside a family policy with a focus on freedom of choice between cash support and cheaper childcare facilities a more offensive environmental policy, and a balanced development of the Saudi River new law on free schooling, faith training plan, measures to improve public health improvement of the instrument in industrial policy reliefs in taxes and charges, in particular for the companies relocation of eight supervision from Oslo measures for increased local freedom of action in school policy It has been an exciting and demanding year, including in international policy. Among other things, we have address key issues such as the revision of the EEA Agreement, the fight against terrorism and the Iraq conflict. I thank the Stortinget for working together on solving these and other issues, both in domestic and foreign policy. Out of tasks I want to mention in the future Unemployment shall be combated by increasing freedom for municipalities, giving new impetus to local democracy, continuing to fight poverty at home and out of strategy for innovation and innovation, putting users at the centre of the labour, social and social services follow-up to quality committees on content and structure of initial training follow-up to the pension Commission in order to ensure sustainability of the pension system. The government will do its part to solve these and other tasks, and invites the Storting to continue working together.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1783	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1786	The government underestimated last year's risk of increased unemployment. The measures that were introduced were too weak and came too late. The result is a sharp increase in unemployment. It is the Prime Minister's choice to call the good results of economic policy to the Government. We believe that these are bad results, when the unemployment rate has increased as much as it has. The government has also begun to create uncertainty about pensions and pensioners’ incomes — first by creating uncertainty about post-regulation of pensions at the time of the revision, which was cleared up by the government bowing to the bulk of the population, and then whether pensions should be regulated in line with wage developments for the current year. It also made sure that it was cleaned up, and the government suffered defeat in relation to its proposal. Last night, new uncertainties were created by the decision of the Minister of Labour, who is responsible for the settlement of income, first ‘complained’. And after it was pointed out that it was unusual for a government council to complain about the decision of the Stortingen, he corrected it to be “lean” for the decision of the Stortingen. My question is: if the Prime Minister agrees with the Minister of Labour, is he prepared for the decision of the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1797	With regard to the development of the insured, there is agreement between the government and the accumulation that they should have an income development ‘at least in line with’ other groups. We first know exactly how big it will be in the new year. That is why we have found it right to have a regulation clause that ensures them this – ‘at least in line with’ other groups. The size would add more now. We'll take note of that. There is agreement on the realities. The Council of State also made it quite clear yesterday that of course we are following up and implementing the Storting decision. As regards the time off, the Government has not underestimated it. On the contrary, we have pursued an active policy to combat it – in addition to the budget, income policy cooperation, more to research and development, lower taxes and taxes on enterprises, strengthening of Aetat, funding for school buildings, seed funds, etc. But we live in a world where the free space around us is increasing more. I hope at least we will avoid getting as high in unemployment as when Jens Stoltenberg was Minister of Industry. He made a record.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1806	It is mainly the Workers' Party which ensures the Government's proposal in respect of the revised national budget. My first question to the Prime Minister is: What consequences will this have for the choice of the first negotiating partner in the autumn's budgetary procedure? The second is – I repeat the question from Jens Stoltenberg: Does the Prime Minister agree with Councillor Victor D. Norman that there was reason to complain, or that it was gross, that the majority did not follow up the Government's proposal for social security settlement, which was lower than what was adopted? And will the Prime Minister state clearly that he and his government will for the future recognize that it is actually the Grand Government that is the Supreme Government? They could be in doubt about that, which followed the debate with the Council of State Norman yesterday. If the Prime Minister has the more common and correct perception of our parliamentary governance system, will he take a little talk with the Council of State Norman at the Chamber, so that he may also follow the usual rules of the game?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1815	Of course, with regard to the choice of the first negotiating partner at the Stortingen budget procedure for the autumn, it will be up to our groups in Stortingen. I guess they'll do it, among other things. in the light of the reactions of the other batches to the draft budget presented. When it comes to pensions, the government always thinks that its own proposals are the best, and we're sorry every time they're not fully accepted. But the pensioners become winners at the year's settlement. They deserve that. There has been a underregulation of their pensions and basic amounts for many years, even when the Workers' Party was in power. Now we've agreed on a back-regulation of 0.6 and 0.5 pst, a total of over $1 billion. That's what the government said we'd do. It's done in the proposal we made. There is also a guarantee of post-regulation until next year if what was proposed is not enough. After what the Storting has now decided, I expect that it will meet the need, but we will see that in the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1826	I understand that the Prime Minister is hesitant to comment that one of his own government councillors almost mistrusts the Stortinget, because that's what Victor D. Norman was doing yesterday. When the Council of State “complains” the decision of the Grand Council, he is out on bold exercises. It turns out that even though he's a professor from the Bergen School of Commerce, there's some knowledge of Norwegian policy he's missing. I would like to invite the Prime Minister once more to say a little bit about what the Prime Minister thinks should be the tone between the Government and the Stortinget. I guess there's some of the things that are challenging for this government, too, that you have a little bit of a hard time getting to know what a large number is, because it's invited to rematch in one area after another. The most incomprehensible thing I've been missing is the settlement of pensions. There the government knew that it had the bulk of the population against it, and yet it makes itself unfamiliar with any pensioner – and there is one million of them – twice! It threatens the government's size, and yet it falls to its feet. This is certainly a government that can be characterised as ‘up like a lion and down like a skin trap’.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1833	Of course, the Council of Normans has not mistrusted the Stortinget. On the contrary, he has made it clear in yesterday's debate that he is going to follow up on the Storting decision. What he's been worried about, and there's a certain reason, is respect for what the Institute has between the government and the social security organizations. But we note that the Storting has now done what it has done. We actually agree on the reality, the guidelines adopted by the Storting, that the insured should have income developments at least in line with others. We don't know the exact number for that until the New Year. That is why we found it appropriate to make any post-regulation. And that's good reason for what the government offered. It went through Norman yesterday. I don't have time for that now. The problem is, of course, that the Storting has been easy to figure out together on expenditure increases, but not on containment. SV's Ballo said in a radio debate that when it came to the insured, the opposition probably agreed on everything except the containment. But that's where the government has contributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1840	It's not free to think that there's been a bit of a strange situation in ours. First, the Prime Minister calls for accountability and rigour in the budget, and when we come to today's debate, the Christian People's Party takes the credit for almost everything they have not proposed, but has nevertheless joined in at the end. Then there are numerous rematches, which have created undue uncertainty among many groups, among other things. in the case of pensioners. Then we have not only a Minister of Labour, but also a Minister of Economic Affairs on Wednesday evening and a Minister of Municipalities yesterday, who cast doubt on whether they will follow a vast majority of clear and unambiguous decisions. That should worry the Prime Minister. But I will now address a specific question with the Prime Minister concerning the statements made yesterday by the Minister of State. She said right away that the NOK 2 billion that Norwegian municipalities can lose on the fact that the exemption from a differentiated employer's fee disappears, the government will not do anything about it, if you know that you have an opportunity through the law, because it will give municipalities a competitive advantage over private business. Does the Prime Minister share that view? Does he agree that one has not chosen to use the possibilities, because it could give the municipalities a advantage?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1849	In the case of rematches, as a football player, I have a certain professional background. I think it was wise and correct of the Government that the decisions of the representative, Arnstad, were inserted into the overall context of the revised national budget. The thing was that there was developing a trend in Stortinget beyond the winter and the spring that a number of spending decisions were taken, but without any suggestions from the same majority who adopted them. We made it clear that we had to get back into the revised national budget to see this in context and make sure that what remains is done within the responsible framework. We've achieved that. In the case of a differentiated employer’s fee, the public sector will receive compensation for the increased employer’s fee in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1858	The Prime Minister just said that the issue of rematches was about whether or not these proposals should be put into an overall context. That's not what this was about. It was about the government rejecting all of them, ignoring the Storting decision. Although the Storting had decided to re-regulate the pensions, it was not followed up. Although the Storting had decided to increase the housing support, it was not followed up. So the government has lost all the rematches, so that all these proposals have been implemented within a sound framework. It's not a surprise, because the Workers' Party has always made it clear that we would only vote for expenditure increases that we were sure we could finance within a responsible framework. Obviously, the government didn't believe that. But we have done so at every budget audit, and of course also at this budget audit, where we found room for money for pensioners, housing support for electricity victims and other important measures. So it wasn't about the frames, but it was about what the frames were to be filled with, and there the government has suffered defeat. Otherwise, I record that the Prime Minister, after having received three questions, does not answer whether he agrees with the Minister of Labour that he is very sorry for the Stortinge's decision, as he said.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1868	Of course, the Prime Minister thinks it is best for the Government's proposal to be adopted, and what we proposed would make the social-securityed winners in the year's income statement, and it could be more likely next year if they get income development weaker than the others. We take note that the Storting would adjust this, and we agree on those realities. It is not right that the government lost all so-called rematches. In fact, when it comes to re-regulation of pensions, we introduced it into the social security proposal — historical re-regulation for 2001 and 2002, which the Storting had adopted. When it came to housing support, we put in most, but not what was a lasting change, but what was going on in the extraordinary situation. When it came to childcare taxes, or tax deductions for the employer’s children’s playground, it was unclear what the majority on the Stortinget meant. There were two different formulations in two different settings. I'm glad it was the limited variant that was finally adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1875	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1878	There is an improperly bold game when the Minister of Administration yesterday got himself to complain about the decision of the Grand Duchy, and when the Minister of Local Councillor earlier in the day got to call the Grand Duchy a 'toy box', for which the President of the Grand Duchy was reasonably charged. I have noticed that the Prime Minister is concerned about the discussion institute. The majority is concerned that the Government has a lack of follow-up to the Storting's guidelines and decisions, and you can ask whether the members of the Government have respect for the work of the Storing. Unemployment is rising. Unemployment has increased by nearly a third in the last year. There has been a significant number of new unemployed every day since the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party took over economic policy. The government has done little to reverse this development. The Labour Party believes that there is a need to take a firm stand against increasing unemployment and to strengthen Norwegian business, as we also proposed during the budgetary procedure in Stortinget last autumn, and as we propose now. Firstly, we need to strengthen efforts to create new jobs by strengthening business-oriented research, by strengthening business research and development, by helping to develop new enterprises based on research results and by supporting those who will create new businesses. Secondly, we need to put in place measures to trigger opportunities for development in industries where we are good, and to prevent the decline of competitive business – by developing industry built on Norwegian gas, in which case the State must contribute to the gas being transported to industrial plants, by bringing new assignments to the shipyards, including: in the construction of ferries, as we need, by strengthening the competitiveness of shipping, inter alia. through net pay arrangements for offshore vessels, by strengthening travel life through increased international marketing, by strengthening the construction industry, inter alia. through significantly more cheap mortgages for the construction of dwellings, the acceleration of public buildings and not least the development of the Norwegian fishing industry. The Workers' Party proposes increased efforts for innovation and conversion in the fishing industry. We suggest increasing bets on the breeding of new species such as cod, halibut, cuttlefish and shellfish. The fishing industry is struggling with serious problems today. In the state most dependent on the fishing industry, Finnmark, 11 out of 33 fishing industry plants are bankrupt or have recently been in bankruptcy proceedings. Further three are out of activity. Nearly 700 workers are affected. The government doesn't do anything. The population of Hasvik Municipality was reduced by 7 pst. last year. The government didn't lift a finger. The working party is now repeating its proposal to release 400 million. kr in loans to the struggling industry. Again, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right Party say no. Thirdly, we need to strengthen school provision and care for the elderly in the municipalities and at the same time prevent new leave in the municipal sector, by proposing NOK 3 billion more to the welfare offer in the municipality for 2003 than the government provided, and by proposing DKK 3 billion more to the municipalities for 2004 than the government provides. And, not least, fourthly, we need to strengthen the supply of unemployed people, by creating more job opportunities, by providing a guarantee of employment, education or job opportunities for all under 25 years of age, and by giving companies in vulnerable industries the opportunity to permit employees for more than 26 weeks, so as to avoid having to resign. The Labour Party strongly opposed the weakening of the unemployment benefits by the Progress Party and the Government Parties. The party of progress and the government parties reduced social security by up to NOK 25 000 for those who are unemployed for one year. The Workers' Party proposes that the previous rules be reintroduced. Work for all is the most important task of the Workers' Party. It's through work that we create values for society and for individuals. Together, we have to take a vow to reduce unemployment and to strengthen Norwegian business. The more disappointing it is that the government parties and the Progress Party once again fail the unemployed, including the unemployed. by maintaining the cuts in the unemployment benefit they carried out at the end of the year, and by failing once again to implement targeted and effective measures to reduce unemployment and to create new activity in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1899	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1902	The Minister of Finance informed the Stortinget earlier today that the decisions taken at the Health West and Health Nord business meetings were to be submitted to the Stortinget in the context of the 2004 government budget. That orientation is essentially in line with the proposal that the Central Party and the SV have made today. But in the context of that briefing, what was to be presented to the Storting was a bit suspended in the air. The Minister of Finance stressed that there is no single decision to deal with the Stortinget, but that is a briefing on the general structural measures. Then there is reason to ask the question: what is the meaning of a simple decision? Decisions in the Health West and Health Nord concern specific changes to hospital services in a number of specific hospitals. For some hospitals, these changes are so big that it is asked whether hospitals can survive as local hospitals in the future. For Wefsn Hospital, there is a radical decision that is taken: the disappearance of surgical emergency preparedness and the transformation of the maternity ward into the maternity ward, which will result in 50 pst. of those who are born must be born in another hospital. In the emergency message, St. report. No 43 for 1999-2000, it describes the kind of problems that will arise from the establishment of this type of preparedness model. There are doubts about the long-term survival of hospitals as hospitals. It is safe to say that decisions are taken that are in many ways the beginning of transforming a local hospital into a district medical centre. Then, at least, my interpretation is that one is in the very law of state acquisition of the hospitals, that one is completely at the limit of taking decisions on the closure of the local hospital and the transformation into a district medical centre. The sum of the decisions taken will affect the hospital provision for, for the part of North Norway, 50,000 people. I'll assume it's the same thing in the West. So there's a question here about what you mean by not dealing with individual decisions. I'm a member of the Transport Committee. The size shall deal with the national transport plan up to the next year. Then you have to deal with roads. Then you have to deal with where you're going to have airports. Then you have to deal with whether trains are going to go by day or by night, and you have to deal with where there are railway stations. It's at all a number of individual decisions, if you can say that, you have to deal with it. Shouldn't you do that about hospitals? I challenge both the Workers' Party and the government parties whether they agree with and agree that, in the context of the 2004 State Budget, the decisions taken by the Health Service in Health Nord should be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1917	The government parties boasted yesterday that this government is delivering the goods. The truth is that this government delivers many faulty goods and many goods with fine wrapping, but without real content. Such an example is the failure of the Government to follow up the quality reform in higher education. The country's universities have clearly demonstrated that a total of 140 million are missing. DKK in compensation for salaries and prices for 2002. The Board of Education has confirmed that there are no differences of view on the calculations. Nevertheless, the government does not come with the money. The Progress Party will only be guided by SV in terms of proposals to provide universities with this money, which will be used for the start-up and implementation of the Quality Reform. Lack of money is a blow to the face of students and university staff, and endangers the whole reform. An important clarification in education: on top. 2445 supports the Workers' Party and SV in the proposal of 5 million. kr to Studentsenteret in Bergen. However, it should be on item 30 Start of construction projects, and not on item 32 Design of construction. The project has been investigated. We want to get started. I assume that representatives of the Workers' Party and SV confirm that they want to get started, and also that the Government will follow the order this time. Why doesn't the government want to invest more in road construction? The country is flooded with important road projects ready for construction. The Treasury is flooded with oil money that can be invested. It is amazing that the government will not invest any more in road construction in Norway, without comparison probably the most profitable investment we as a nation can make. Why is it better to have workers on unemployment than to work on road installations? Road construction is investment, and unemployment benefits are expenditure. It is incredible that the Workers' Party will not participate in a large-scale investment in road construction. It is also quite frequent when the Labour Party at the same time boasts of its own efforts against unemployment in this budget review. The product provided by the Workers' Party as an action against unemployment is a defect. There may not be work for everyone on the measures taken by the Workers' Party, but there will certainly be unemployment for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1928	For many years there has been work to improve hospital capacity and hospital services in Akershus, and there are very good reasons for this. The main hospital in Akershus, what we had previously learned to know as SiA, the Central Hospital in Akershus, and which has now been called New Aarhus, is too little to serve the already large and growing population. But this is not the only problem, because New Aarhus is nothing new at all. The buildings are old and very worn-out, to use a very careful description. Therefore, the physical offers to patients are far worse than they should reasonably be, and the working conditions for employees are far from what they should be. Employees deal better with the situation than we can demand in the current circumstances, but there is, of course, a limit to them too. The preliminary project for New Aarhus was approved, and it was then provided that the construction start was to take place during this year. In St. prp. No 1 for 2002–03, however, the project was considered to have an excessive cost level, and therefore Health East started work on reducing the cost to about 200 000 people. 7 billion kroner. This work must have been done, as far as I am aware, and the revised pre-project will be formally dealt with in a week. This project will make a strong contribution to achieving the health policy objectives that the policy environment seems to agree on, and it is therefore very important that progress is not shifted again. People in Akershus have a strong expectation and a reasonable demand that the 2004 State budget provide a clear signal for this project, so that work can start. I would otherwise refer to the decision taken here today, against the votes of the government parties, where the Government is empowered to do what is necessary to enable the construction to take place in 2004. It's a little strange about the government parties, because we were shoulder to shoulder in the election campaign for two years so that this work had to get started. The government parties, as at the time were in opposition, were very critical of the then government in view of the fact that there was no greater progress and greater speed on this matter. I hope now we can count on the state budget for the autumn, which is what is necessary for this work to be started. So it's very necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1943	Sometimes it is necessary to remind each other that there is a revised national budget we have for treatment, and then there are adjustments to some of the things we are doing. So it gets very hollow, I thought, when the Progress Party is now talking about more funds to the municipalities, more to the competence reform. Yeah, that's important. We should have done that last year, but then I miss the Progress Party in relation to both the municipalities and the competence reform. But it's unlikely that one is involved and is spending more money on the skills reform. So I hope that when we get back to the fall, we'll find it when it comes to money. Otherwise, there are two conditions I would like to mention in a short article now at the end. It is a matter of course and practice activities of the School of Police. The Labour Party is in favour of a comment to oppose the closure of the Police College centre in North Odal. We're in on that because we think it's necessary to tell you about it. But then there can be questions about whether this has any economic consequences, and therefore we believe that it is natural to take this issue back in connection with the budget of the cottage. I therefore ask the UK, the Central Party and the Coastal Party, who are proposers, to make this proposal, No. 33, on a transmission proposal. It's important what we've said, and I'm asking the government to notice that we mean it, and then I hope it can be done. So to the Student Centre in Bergen, which has got some hurting cravings for start-up funds, $5 million. kr. It is necessary for this student centre to start now, which will be built for 3,000 students. Now 17,000 students have passed. The center is 30 years old, and it really needs to do something about it. But the department advised that we should lead it to post 32, where it is now. I'm not going to make any suggestions to lead it to another location, but it must be quite clear that these funds are intended for launching the project, not for further development, because this has come so far that you can do it. That's what was meant by the plurality of the finance committee. I would have just clarified it, so that you don't start asking questions about it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1954	‘Cooperation management will strengthen the efforts of the transport sector and increase road appropriations. Better standards are needed in the interests of the environment, value creation, the need to reduce regional handicaps and better accessibility and security. It is also necessary to focus on racial protection and to include the need for racial protection measures as one of the criteria for the distribution of pesticides.’ This is the verbatim quote of the first paragraph under the chapter on the "trafficking" of the almost two-year-old Sem Declaration. What has become the practical result of these fine words? The answer is that this has so far become only empty words. Many had expectations that the positive words about trade would turn out to be in the budget. The change is big when it turns out that the fine words have no content. The government has not delivered the goods here. Earlier this year, the prime minister was out and promised that the government would invest in racial protection. Many people who live with racial danger for much of the year believed what was said, and looked forward to increased efforts to secure the many rascal routes. Here too, disappointment was great, as it turned out that there was not a krona for racial protection in the revised national budget. Instead of getting an increase in the size of a transport project, the revised national budget takes several items from the budget. The value creation in the country is the basis for employment and well-being. Better road standards are decisive for the environment, value creation and construction. We're going to have to reduce the distance constraints. We must improve the appearance and security. In order to unlock the potential of value creation across the country, it is crucial that more attention be paid to the issue of culture. If we're going to go all over the country, the road sector is absolutely decisive to bet on. We have a follow-up on maintenance of approx. 10 billion kroner. In addition, we have long lists of unresolved tasks that relate to repair, race protection, ferry clearance and other projects. Today we have an increasing unemployment rate. We have free hands and free machines that could be used to solve some of the challenges we face in the transport sector. This would have been to bet on lasting values. The Central Party has also included in the revised national budget, as we did in the last autumn, an additional billion for transport, which should mainly be used for racial protection and maintenance. Many of the commercial activities are far away from the major routes across the country. So we don't have to forget the secondary highway network. The centre party will therefore also invest more in this particular road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1971	I just want to tie a few words to case no. 4, which applies to a Document No. 8 proposals to introduce a reduced fee for environmental fuels, so that it can be made available on the Norwegian market. This environmental fuel, or sulphur-free fuel, as it is also called, is a bit more expensive to produce than normal fuel, and is therefore dependent on a tax incentive to make it available on the Norwegian market. Incomprehensiblely, only the Progress Party is clear that we want to follow up on this matter. It is even more incomprehensible when you look at the comment in the 2002 revised budget setting, which reads as follows: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, ask the Government of the 2003 State Budget to submit proposals for a lower tax on petrol and low-sulphur diesel, as has been done in some other European countries.’ This plural note has not followed up, as the government knows, and the plurality behind this comment has also been blurred, as it is only the Progress Party that is fixing this today. Then you can think about what happened in the meantime. The only thing I've figured out has happened is that SFT has calculated that this is a profitable environmental measure. It's a sample surface on the top of 300 million. kr, while the environmental benefit is estimated at 384 million. kr. In other words, this is a profitable environmental measure. Whether that is why the parties have jumped from the proposal is unclear. But in any case, the SFT has calculated that there are also economic motives for implementing it. The proposal is also in line with an EU directive which states that sulphur-free fuels should be available in 2005. So it's just a matter of time before this load gets pushed down our heads. Environmental petrol and diesel are already being produced in Norway and are being exported to other EU countries that have introduced such tax incentives. Only Statoil Mongstad has invested over $1 billion to be able to produce this. At least we can't see a single argument for not introducing this in Norway right now. It is a good environmental measure, it is a profitable measure, and it is a measure that is in line with common sense. We are therefore very much behind this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e1995	On behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, I have submitted a proposal asking the Government to carry out a broad impact assessment of the changes that the Minister of Health is now opening up within the various health companies, leading to the dismantling and closure of food departments, treatment services and emergency preparedness at hospitals, and that this impact assessment is presented to the Stortinget before the changes are implemented. We've been confirmed in the last few days that there's going to be significant changes in several of our health regions. The Ministry of Health has stated at the Enterprise Meeting that, in the context of the changes in Health West, they will have submitted a report on the preparatory work for changes by 1 November. In our opinion, that is not enough. We believe that there should be a proper impact assessment of the changes that are now being proposed with regard to health businesses. Several representatives have mentioned this before today, and I am very surprised that no more follow us in this proposal. These include: pointed out by Sogn and Fjordane at the Sogn Regional Council that this proposal, which has now been adopted by Health West and, to a large extent, accepted by the Minister of Health during the business meeting this week, is a breach of the obligation to distribute, i.e. the impact assessment. It also surprises me that individual decisions should not be brought to the Grandfather in terms of health development. Both the government parties and the Workers' Party seem to agree on that. I believe that this has such a significant impact on the health provision of individuals in the areas concerned, on social development and on welfare development that it should have been submitted to the Stortinget as the country's top elected body and as responsible for these different sectors and overall social development. An impact assessment should include: contain an assessment of professional safety. There are large questions about it from a professional team, including: In Sogn and Fjordane, you know that you don't have medical capacity and medical coverage at a food supply as it's now suggested. There should also be a question of whether the pre-hospital service is adequate and whether cooperation with the local health service is adequately ensured, or whether there should be new and burdensome tasks to be entrusted to the local government sector, without compensation and organisation for the necessary resources, both financially and professionally. We are now talking about district medical centers or close - up hospitals. In my opinion, this is some kind of deception. This may be good, but it can also be a mixture of a medical care system and a nursing home institution. I don't think it's right to let the Stortinge comment on these things. The majority are so concerned with the performance of health enterprises that it is not possible to see health policies for health enterprises only.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e2010	The Coastal Party has presented three proposals that do not seem to have a majority today. Proposals Nos. 111 and 112, which relate to the long-term framework conditions for the development of maritime industries and the simplification of the transfer of competences and the dissemination of information through a national centre of expertise, have, as I understand it, a greater opportunity to be realised through a more thorough examination of the 2004 budget. Since this government has clearly depreciated maritime industries as a future growth sector, it is not appropriate to convert these proposals into transmission proposals. Following the vote in the corridors, these proposals are more likely to be realised by being withdrawn from the vote today and taken up in the course of the harvest budgetary procedure. The premises for the proposals are distributed in the representatives' shelves, so now the idea can lie down and make up for it over the summer, and then we come back to the matter. The location of a centre of competence coordination is less important than its establishment. The main objective is to strengthen and bring together the maritime cluster environments that need to work together to meet the Storting's net pay premise. It should just be lacking – and I do not understand it – that the framework conditions for the maritime industries are not as similar as those we compete with. And where will the officers come from when we don't have young people to man the Norwegian vessels? I ask again, where will the Norwegian officers come from? The years go by, whether we like it or not. Proposal No. 113 to be converted into transmission proposals. There should be elements that the Government might consider, since it would mean both deferred retirement and ensuring broad and complex school competences. The coastal party thinks it's better to use older teachers than to replace them with pensioners, but this government has so many wonderful ideas about how to create a better school, that nothing can surprise us anymore. But in this I leave proposal No. 113 to the Government’s assessment by converting it into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e2023	For jobs and businesses in the districts, the differentiated employer’s fee has been absolutely necessary. When the EEA agreement was to be adopted, the current Prime Minister Bondevik almost put his hand on the heart and promised the Norwegian people that this was Norwegian tax policy, and we should keep this. The EU sceptics among us said that no, that's probably not the case, and unfortunately we got the right. In 1999, Norway was sentenced to the EFTA Court. The scheme became known illegally as Norwegian fiscal policy and is now part of the regional policy of the EU regime. Of course, this is SV very worried and tired of. Since 1999, we have been making proposals to bring different governments into line with the principle of long-term consequences and come up with an alternative regime, which was legal, not because we think this agreement is so glittering, but because it has been the majority of them and because we have had to deal with the realities. Three governments have stabbed their heads far into the sand, Bondevik I, the Stoltenberg government and now Bondevik II. It would have been understandable if we, who are against the EU and the rigid regime that is there, had tried obstruction. But that this government, populated by warm EU and EEA members, does not understand the rules of this system, tries to fight for lost schemes, does not understand the rules and opportunities within the system, it is a mystery. The representative of the Christian People's Party, Lilletun, was up and said that it was foolishness on the part of the EU not to approve this scheme that Norway wants and that is glittering. Yes, that is possible, but that is the system Lilletun and his party colleagues want! And then what do we do? It is probably not useful for Norway to say that you are a fool, so please do their system again! And when ESA opens the door on fire for example for Norway. shall be able to expand the geographical area of transport aid, send a letter to ESA and ask them: please close that door again! Isn't that what we said in the first place, that it wasn't allowed to give anything more? - So it's not like that! There are many schemes that could have been tried. For example, it would have been interesting to hear how the Government looks at a type of structural fund that they have in the EU, which can contribute well to regional development – not directly to businesses but to regional development. Then, of course, the question that I think the government has to answer soon, when it seems that they are losing all battles about these arrangements: what is the Government's plan B? All responsible governments must have a Plan B in such situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e2043	Like Andersen, I should like to focus a little on the differentiated employer fee. In today's vote, a majority clearly states that the Government must use the possibility of derogation, through ODA Protocol 3. In addition, a majority also argues that one should look at the possibility of extending that derogation to more than Nord-Troms and Finnmark. The possibilities for using the exemption beyond what the Government has so far foreseen are also confirmed in a legal review which was transmitted to the Government in May. Here there is an obvious possibility for the Government, based on the legal developments also the EU has had in the same area, which the Government must apply if the Government is not to be able to properly accuse, in order not to make use of the possibilities available, in order to maintain the differentiated employer’s fee. I strongly recommend to the Government that it take the opportunity of the majority in the Grand Duchy today to use that possibility of exception wider than has so far been provided. There is also an opportunity in relation to the differentiated employer charge and it is possible to exempt enterprises which are not in competition with activities in another EEA country. They fall per cent. definition outside the impact field of the EEA Agreement. This applies, inter alia, to: Norwegian municipalities if they do not compete with other EEA countries. That's also an opportunity. Not getting the exemption from Norwegian municipalities so far has been subject to a differentiated employer's fee, will mean an additional cost of over NOK 2 billion for municipalities. The municipal minister was asked yesterday why one did not take advantage of that opportunity. Then the municipal minister said that they are aware that this possibility exists, but it was not used because it would give municipalities a competitive advantage over private business! From the centre's point of view, there's an excuse not to use the exception, which is completely unacceptable. So one here is going to charge district municipalities in Norway an increase of over DKK 2 billion, because one does not want them to benefit from private activities in the exercise of local well-being and the local welfare services! There is also a possibility that the government should obviously use. In addition, I will be allowed to comment on the Document No. the 8th proposal that the Centre Party has promoted to reduce the share in our foreign fund positions in order to reduce the risk of loss. I believe that, not least in recent years' development, we should have chosen a more steady and less risk-oriented profile on the location of shares and bonds in the oil fund. I am amazed that no other party supports this proposal. I would also like to take the opportunity to present proposal No. 110 on behalf of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e2060	The representative Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e2063	I just wanted to take the word completely short to say something about barley. SV has provided a majority with the Workers' Party and the Advance Party for several buildings for which the Government had not found room in its original proposal. This applies, inter alia, to: the colleges of Eastfold, Stavanger, Nesna and Bodø. We are very pleased, both because these are sensible projects that have been waiting for too long, and because there is now a favorable time for connecting vacant hands with unresolved tasks. We have a lot of people available in the construction industry. In addition, the same parties have secured a majority for a grant to a new student centre in Bergen. It is an important project for the student environment and the student democracy in the city, for the University of Bergen and Bergen City. But the reason I took the floor now was that, like the representatives of Sortevik and Frøiland, I would make a little clarification as to how this allocation is meant. Although the money is in the post they do, I would also like to confirm in the SV's section that they are meant to be started. The design here is largely done. It is important to get started with the project itself. That's why both the SV, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have clarified that we're about to get started, and we expect the Government to remember it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e2072	I'm just going to fix two mistakes in Innst. S. No 260. On page 51, under item 6.5.2, it says: ‘The Committee endorses the Government’s proposal to reduce cap. 3430 item 3 with 3.5 million. Here it shall be increased by 3.5 million. kr. – As far as I am aware, it has become correct in the recommendation, but errors in the Committee’s comments. So to page 301, which concerns the Committee's recommendation. In accordance with the text under point 7.12, Chapter. entry 582 is added as the string ‘can be transmitted’.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e2082	The corrections and corrections made by Siv Jensen will of course be incorporated into the documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e2085	This goes a little bit in the same street. There are three proposals where SV are co-sponsors, whom we are asking to be made for transmission proposals, with different reasons. It concerns proposal No. 13, which is charged for electricity, which we promote together with the Workers' Party. We don't want to get this down. On the contrary, we believe that this proposal will have future implications. It concerns proposal No. 33, which we are promoting together with the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, and this is proposal No. 114. We want to submit these proposals so that they will not be downgraded. That means we're turning them into transmission proposals. Otherwise, it's probably saying about this debate, that it may not have had a particularly high temperature. That's why I'm going to join the representative of Bastisen, who said he had some suggestions that would lie down and make up for himself over the summer. Maybe we'll do it with the Storting too, let it lie down and make up for it a little bit over the summer, so maybe we'll get stronger back to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e2094	We are sincerely hoping that there will be no situations that will make us have to convene the Storting this summer!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e2097	When there was a power crisis in winter, the government's representatives promised that everyone who had problems would get help. It did not follow up the Government. It was the opposition parties that had to take responsibility for giving money. On February 20, we reached a decision here in Stortinget, where we provided 130 million. kr to the municipalities, so that they could give extra money to the social offices that would receive additional costs related to increased electricity costs. It was given NOK 2 500, all of which were agreed, to all the housing beneficiaries, and light and heating supplements were given to families with children. A good number of families with children received cash assistance just during the crisis. The last one that was given was 120 million. to increase housing aid and raise the income limit for families with children. The stupid thing that has happened after this is that the money that was to go to the municipalities has not yet arrived, but they will be paid soon – we are hoping. The stupid thing was that the government decided to cut in the post that would go to the municipalities. The last stupid thing was that the government decided to cut out the 120 million completely. NOK which would raise the income limit for families with children by NOK 30 000. The reason I'm dealing with this today is that something strange happened in this context. Immediately after the decision of the Storting, the Ministry of Social Affairs sent out a circular, U-3, to all the municipalities and counties of the country, explaining the new income limits. But the Ministry of Local Affairs, which is the department responsible, did not send letters of allocation to those responsible for the housing aid, namely the House Bank. The house bank was never informed that this money would be paid to 12,000 families with children. The money was never paid. So now the deadline for applying for this money has expired. It went out on June 10th this year. Now we're sitting here, on June 20th, and we're about to make decisions. It simply means that the Ministry of Local Affairs did not follow up the decision of the Storting. It is then natural for me to ask a question to the Minister of Finance: how many decisions should the Stortinget have to take before the government actually follows up the decisions and appropriations taken by the Stortinget? Why in the world is it that government parties will not be able to extend the deadline for applications? I expect that when we make a decision here, you will get out quickly from the Ministry of Local Affairs, so that we can get the housing support, which has been adopted twice by Stortinget, to the 12,000 families of children who deserve this money as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e2113	There are many issues that could be addressed in relation to the treatment of the revised national budget. There's a lot of politics here, but in three minutes you don't get that much. Like the representative Holmås, I will raise something that has to do with the government's social profile. I also fully agree with the representative Holmås on what he said about the power crisis and those who were particularly hard hit by it. It is critical how the Government has followed them up. The government also reiterates some unsocial proposals in the revised national budget, which relate to increased ownership of, among other things. medical visits, physiotherapy and X-ray studies. In fact, the government also assumes that this is to be adopted by the Storting when negotiating with doctors, psychologists and physiotherapists on pay conditions for the coming years. It's taking certain freedoms. This is from a government that is concerned with the fight against poverty, which says that they are to protect the disadvantaged. Nor will it be better for the Workers' Party to support these unsocial self-promotion applications in the context of the revision of the national budget. But this saves the government from new wage negotiations with, among other things. Toys. The medical rehabilitation field is a major problem. The Centre Party has put in place significant resources to increase the rehabilitating capacity and to ensure that the institutions involved are able to operate somewhat better. Unfortunately, few, almost none, follow this up. It's important not only to treat disease, but also to rehabilitate people, so that they can get a decent life back. Getting people back to work as quickly as possible should be a goal for everyone, and also that those who are no longer active should become as self-responsive as possible and have a decent life. We have submitted a proposal on Røros Rehabilitation Centre, owned by the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease. The majority of the Social Committee has for a long time recommended to the Government that this institution should be approved for operation. It has not yet happened. In the early stages of the review, the Centre submitted a proposal that Røros Rehabilitation Centre should be recognised as a fully-fledged rehabilitation institution as soon as possible and that State reimbursement should be granted for operations from 1 July. Fortunately, it is now a majority that supports the allocation of funds to Røros Rehabilitation Centre, but I am surprised that no more is involved in this proposal – proposal No. 103 – which I have to turn into a transmission proposal if no one else comes forward and says that we support this as a clear and logical consequence of the proposal. So to proposal No. 114, promoted by the undersigned on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. There are no more people who have signalled any health policy views on it, and this also means turning it into a transmission proposal, so that at least we do not get it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e2128	The President noted that in the introductory part of the Committee's recommendation at the end. S. No 260 has been shown to have to be changed as a consequence of Storting’s decisions in relation to the various settlements, among others. social security settlement. Against this background, the President will address a proposal, proposal No. 118, containing the corrections necessary for a number to be put to the vote at the final vote. This applies, as far as the President understands, also to proposal No. 119, which is just distributed. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1-8. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e2150	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3640]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e2168	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3640]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e2177	Then we are ready to vote on the matter no. 1 to 10 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e2200	A total of 119 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals No. 2 and 3, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 4, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party, the proposals No. 5 and 6, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 7 and 8, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Coastal Party proposal No. 9, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party, the Center Party and Left Proposal No. 10, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party proposals No. 11-13, from Hill-Marta Solberg, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 14, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party, Left and Coastal Party proposals No. 15 and 16, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 17, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 18, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 19 and 20, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 21, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left, the proposals No. 22 and 23, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Coastal Party, proposals No. 24 –27 and 109, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals Nos. 28-31, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, 32-36, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposals No. 37 and 38, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 39, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 40 to 44, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, proposals Nos. 45-49, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party, proposals No. 50 to 78, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 79 to 95, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals Nos. 96-101, by Arne Braut, on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, on proposals Nos. 102 to 105, by Mr Brout, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals Nos. 106, 107 and 111-113, by Steinar Bastesen, on behalf of the Coastal Party, proposal No. 108, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 110, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 114, by Arne Brout, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on proposal No. 115, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 116 and 117, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 118, from the President, proposal No. 119, from Hill-Marta Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. Proposals Nos. 1-107 is included in the vote, proposals No. 108–119 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 106 and 107, from the Coastal Party. Proposal No.106 reads as follows: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormsCroner1062Crossworks34 Ship tunnel design, can be transferred, can be used under heading 30, granted by 17 000 0001320 State road transport Capacity adjustment etc., the fishing industry, granted by 36 000 000 0002420 State food and rural development fund Land-cover seed scheme, granted by 1 000 000 00097 Land-cover seed scheme, granted by 1 000 000 000 000» [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] Proposal No. 107 sounds: ‘The ruling asked the Government to establish a reimbursement scheme for the necessary medical dental treatments including: preserving treatment.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e2426	Proposals Nos. 111 and 112, from the Coastal Party, have been withdrawn. Proposal No. 113, from the Coastal Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal, the proposal being amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government introduce a sabbatical phase for teachers in the 2004 budget to ensure that new-educated teachers are given a job at school and that older teachers are encouraged to remain in work until retirement.’ The President proposes that this proposal be submitted to the Government without any restitution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 102, 104 and 105, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 102 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cape Town PostDestinationCrones170FN organisations, etc. :76Additives via the UN system, etc., may be transferred, increased by 40 000 000 from NOK 1 340 000 to NOK 1 380 000 000254Advantages for adult training [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2412)]] Proposal No. 104 sounds: ‘The Decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 3 December 2002 on excise duties on the 2003 budget for tobacco is amended as follows:No. 2 The fee for tobacco products § 1, first paragraph, point (c) is replaced by the following:(c) Smoking tobacco, savoury tobacco, raw tobacco in retail packing: kr 1,665 per. grams of the net weight of the package.’» Proposal No. 105 sounds: ‘Decision of the European Parliament of 3 December 2003 on excise duties for the 2003 budgetary period is amended as follows:No. 10 The first sentence of the first subparagraph of Section 1 of chocolate and sugar products is replaced by the following: 11 if excise duties are paid to the Treasury for chocolate and sugar products at NOK 16,63 per person. kg of the weight of the goods subject to excise duty.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e3106	Proposal No. 103, from the Central Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government approve Røros Rehabilitation Centre as a fully-fledged rehabilitation institution as soon as possible so that the institution can start full-time operations with State reimbursement from 1 July 2003.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 96-101, from the Center Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 96 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.ObjectivesCrones163Emergency aid, humanitarian aid and human rights:71Humanitary aid and human rights, may be transferred, increased by 37 000 000 from DKK 1 143 000 000 to kr 1 180 000 000221Grunning school Contributions to the release of young people with disabilities, granted by 25 000 00070Free drug-prevention work, etc., may be transferred, increased by 2 000 000 from kr 113 000 from kr 115 000 000 000 from kr 115 000 000732Regional health enterprises71Additions to Health East RHF, may be transferred, increased by 108 900 000 from kr 10 668 000 000 to kr 10 776 900 00072Additions to Health Sør RHF, may be transferred, increased by 65 700 000 from kr 35 000 from kr 6 4 439 000 to kr 6 504 00073Additions to Health West RHF, may be transferred, increased by SEK 5 078 900 000 000 to kr 5 130 000 Additions to medicine, transferred to SEK 1 800 000 from NOK 3 000 from NOK 1 000 from NOK 1 000 from NOK [[NY]] [[NY]] [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4820 and 4829)]] Proposal No. 97 sounds: ‘The Government asked the Government to submit a progress report in relation to the 2004 budget on how far the railway investments have gone in relation to its 2002-2005 action plan. A plan shall also be submitted for the recovery of the lag in railway investments.’» Proposal No. 98 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an overview of purchasing power developments in one-person households and proposals for tax changes that contribute to a distribution policy that improves the performance of one-person households in 2004 in the context of the submission of the State budget.’ Proposal No. 99 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to submit proposals for a guarantee or loan scheme for the fishing industry with a view to securing industry or fishing recipients in vulnerable local communities in the context of the 2004 State budget.’ Proposal No. 100 sounds: ‘The Grand Government shall follow up the ‘Fail Home for a 50-note’ action in Sogn and Fjordane with proposals in the 2004 State Budget on how to facilitate similar arrangements in all the counties of the country.’ Proposal No. 101 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government on the basis of ODA Protocol 3 Article 3 paragraph. the third paragraph, in relation to ESA, apply for a derogation for the entire scope of the differentiated employer’s fee.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e3733	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 79-82 and 84-95, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 79 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cape VerdeCroner163Emergency aid, humanitarian aid and human rights71Human aid and human rights can be transferred, increased by 100 000 000 from DKK 1 143 000 000 to DKK 1 243 000 000197Aid to non-ODA-approved countries and international environmental actions70Aids to nuclear security measures, project cooperation with Russia/SUS and the action plan for the candidate countries to the EU can be transferred, increased by 5 000 000 000 from DKK 320 000 000 to DKK 325 000 000221Grunnskolan Sami Højskola, granted by 3 100 000 430 Central Administration of Criminal Welfare Increased fees and fees are granted by 1500 0005312The Norwegian State Husbank [[NY]] [[NY]] [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2412)]] Proposal No. 80 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that duplication in prisons is used only when the prisoners concerned agree to this, and when it is considered to be sound by the Health Department and social advisers at the institution.’ Proposal No. 81 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan reviewing the need for staffing, resources and settlements for the criminal services, including the free movement of persons.’ Proposal No. 82 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the Government of the State budget for 2004 to introduce the same self-payment for the sterilisation of women as the corresponding self-payment for the sterilisation of men.’ Proposal No. 84 sounds: «a.Sparing authorisationSize agrees to save 100 million. crowns of the operational expenditure of the departments with the exception of health enterprises and defence. [[items 1-29, excluding entry 24]] The government is authorised to make the final allocation of the amount. Savings are specified in chapters and items, and the Stortinget is briefed on the distribution in connection with the rebalancing of the 2003 government budget. Saving is currently being done by capping. 2309 Random expenses of 100 million. krones. When the amount is allocated to chapters and items, 100 million are returned. crowns to cap. 2309.b.Sparing authorisationThe majority agrees that 100 million will be saved. dollars in the defence budget. The government is authorised to make the final allocation of the amount. Savings are specified in chapters and items, and the Stortinget is briefed on the distribution of the national budget for 2004. Saving is currently being done by capping. 2309 Random expenses of 100 million. krones. When the amount is allocated to chapters and items, 100 million are returned. crowns to cap. 2309.’ Proposal No. 85 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the State Budget for 2004 to propose an increase in the funding of the network tariff that may strengthen ENOVA’s revenue.’» Proposal No. 86 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government, in the context of the 2004 budget, to submit proposals for measures that may lead to the use of the land area over heavily worked roads.’ Proposal No. 87 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to support the Nordreisa project in order to gain knowledge of predatory issues and preventive work.’ Proposal No. 88 sounds: ‘The Government requests the appropriate transparency of requests for deferral of payment of public charges from particularly vulnerable groups.’;» Proposal No. 89 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch a pre-project for a student life course survey in Norway in 2003 with a view to implementation in 2004’.» Proposal No. 90 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the 2004 State Budget to investigate the Scrapie Value Chain in Norway with regard to enhanced environmental requirements and to consider promoting measures to improve the situation in particular for mercury emissions, including State contributions to sewage treatment plants.’ Proposal No. 91 reads: ‘Chap. 5559 Charges on the packaging of beverages As from 1 July 2003, the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 2 December on taxes on the packaging of beverages applicable to the 2003 budget:§ 1 paragraph 1 shall be amended as follows: the first paragraph is replaced by the following: a) Glass kr 5,28b)Metal kr 4,28c)Plastkr 2,58d)Carton/paper kr 1,07 § 1 para. the first paragraph is replaced by the following: disposable packaging of NOK 1,07. ‘... Proposal No. 92 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the variation in municipal tax access is balanced by the government. The Government is asked to present a proposal for this in connection with the submission of the national budget for 2004.» Proposal No. 93 sounds: ‘The government requests action to be taken by the Government to ensure that the economic and social differences shall be less at the end of this ageing period than they were at the beginning of the period.’ Proposal No. 94 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide an assessment of the development of economic and social differences in Norway in the annual budgets.’ Proposal No. 95 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate an evaluation of the sale of the Bank of Credit, Statoil and Telenor, to see if the sale has contributed to the achievement of the objectives set by the State.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e4754	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 83, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to remove the cost ceiling for qualification measures for disabled persons’. The central party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e4771	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 50 to 78, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cape VerdePostFormålKroner100Ministry of Foreign Affairs [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4320)]] Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to extend the fee grant scheme to technology subjects’.» Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to enter into an agreement with the Stine Sofie Foundation to provide care for relatives of serious victims of violence and murder.’ Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to co-locate the Police College within a time frame of 2 years at the course and practice centre of the justice sector in Stavern.’ Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make any necessary changes to the legislation and regulations of the House Bank’s loans to health homes, old-age homes and rehabilitation sites in southern countries, so that there are no such obstacles in the way that private operators can stand as borrowers.’ Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘a.The fixed unit price of the ISF system for the financial years 2002 and 2003 shall apply for those years with definitive effect.b. Changes in the unit price and tariffs shall apply for the future only and all changes retrospectively shall be repealed.’ Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to grant the application to establish a tourist station on Kalda-Kari and to allow helicopter tourism to the station.’ Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The following road projects shall be initiated or carried out: National road investment CONFIDENTIAL E6Bro over the railway at Røra in N-Trandellag 5 million. KronerJondal tunnel in Hardanger, Hordaland 50 million. SEK39Bergen-Os, Hordaland 50 million. kroneRv 546Austevollbroen, Hordaland 50 mill. SEK14Stjørdal-Stollien, repair of N-Thrøndelag 15 million. kronaE6Swingenskogen-Åsgård [[Akershus]] RECOVERY OF ESTABLISHED INSTALLATIONS E6Knowledge Cross 10 million. SEK 10LOFAST 15 million. SEK6Bånes-Birtavarre 15 million. kronerE18Forsering, motorway bridge in Drammen 20 mill. SEK18Brokelandsheia-Vinterkjær 20 million. kronerE16Kryss Ve 5 million. SEK 38Kragerøtunnelen 20 mill. SEK 43Aunevik-Bukkesteinen 20 mill. SEK 503Gloppedalen 20m. kronaRv 13Liverface 15 mill. SEK 5Kvalvik-Grov 20 million. SEK 653Eikesund connection 30 million. SEK 828Flostad-Sørvik 20 million. SEK 888Torskefjelldalen-Reinoksevatn 20 million. crowns’» Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for the establishment of a state-owned innovation company to develop technologies for the environmentally friendly use of natural gas for energy purposes, for petrochemistry and for the use of hydrogen as an energy carrier.’ Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The Government, in the form of a regulation, asks the Government to introduce a standard staffing system in the country’s nursing home which will increase the nursing factor in the nursing homes and ensure that care workers are given the opportunity to work in all or nearly all of the positions where possible.’ Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the implementation of work in cooperation between the State and private capital environments with a view to building a Norwegian-based international competitive capital management environment, including making changes to the guidelines for the management of the petroleum fund that would be natural in such a context.’ Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose:1. Creation of four new Centres of Excellence within priority areas [[biomarine, energy, offshore and marine]] Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the extension of the Argentinian model, both in the form of several funds and to cover both the venture and private equity phases. It is appropriate to consider the creation of 3 new funds.» Proposal No. 63 sounds: «The Government requests the transfer of responsibility for primary school buildings from the municipalities to the state as a temporary arrangement.» Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary changes to legislation, regulations or instructions so that all individual undertakings are included in the tax FUNN scheme with retroactive effect for 2002.’ Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘a.The Government asks the Government to complete the development work with a new calculation model for border-trade revenue calculations, based on the model development of the Border Trade Committee and the SSB, so that correct calculations can be carried out at the latest in the preparation of the revised national budget for 2004.b.The Government asks the Government to carry out a quantitative measurement of total alcohol consumption, with implementation during 2003.c.The Government asks the Government to submit proposals in the 2004 budget to ensure that Norway receives the same taxes on alcohol and tobacco applicable in Sweden for 2004.’ Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘1. The Government asks the Government to give the same financial commitments to the Eurofighter project as the obligations given to the JSF project, so that there are equal assumptions for both actors.2. The Government is asking the Government to step up its efforts to achieve repurchase towards the Norwegian industry in the projects carried out and in those under implementation and planning.» Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to work for the unemployed with ICT training who receive public social benefits to enter school as assistants in the time they apply for a new job in their education.’ Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a notification in autumn 2003 evaluating the transition from gross to net budgeting for the university and higher education sectors.’ Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to outsource the creation of a State fund that could be the co-investor of Norwegian private interests in connection with foreign purchases or restructuring measures.’ Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the obligation to receive assigned work is followed up in practice.’;» Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide an overview of which state companies have been exempted from the document fee and an assessment of whether this represents discrimination in relation to private companies competing with them.’ Proposal No. 72 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to authorise Aetat to conclude contracts for the use of private service providers, such as Manpower, Adecco and others, to provide the necessary employment services and any relief with commercial tasks.’ Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to adopt the necessary amendments to regulations and to promote the necessary legislative amendments to ensure that Norwegian environmental requirements for industry are adapted to the same framework conditions as in the EU and other competing countries.’ Proposal No. 74 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the State Budget for 2004 to promote a case with an overview of the consequences of the removal of the base charge for recovery bottles PET.’ Proposal No. 75 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to take advantage of a fall in the activity level of the construction industry by speeding up the already adopted and necessary public projects within a framework of 1 billion. krones. The government is asked to file a case for the exact disposal distributed per. The following projects will be launched or carried out immediately at the Stavanger + 16 University of Nesna+ 5 Norwegian School of Music+ 20 University of Bodø+ 50 Student Centre in Bergen+ 10 University of Hedmark+ 15 Building of student housing – SINOT + 25 Building of student housing – SiO + 15 Building of student housing – SiO + 15 UiB – Odontbyg+ 10 NLH – Maintenance + 5 Falstadcenter+ 3» [[(middle. crowns):]] Proposal No. 76 sounds: ‘The size requests the Government to complete the development work with a new calculation model for the border-trade margin calculations, based on the model development of the Border Trade Committee and the SSB, so that correct calculations can be carried out at the latest in the preparation of the Revised National Budget 2004.’;» Proposal No. 77 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a quantitative measurement of the total alcohol consumption, carried out during 2003.’ Proposal No. 78 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals in the 2004 budget to ensure that Norway receives the same taxes on alcohol and tobacco applicable in Sweden for 2004.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e5922	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 45-46 and 48-49, from the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormsCroner551Regional development and innovation60Contribution to county councils for regional development, increased by 178 000 000 from NOK 1 116 500000 to NOK 1 294 500 000571Room grants to municipalities [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5312 and 5615)]] Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a comprehensive review of the hospital input-driven funding system with particular attention to possible distortions of this system’s patient treatment and, if appropriate, to the outcome of the review and possibly. proposals for amendments to the 2004 State Budget for the Grand Duchy.’.» Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to cooperate with the Municipality of Oslo to upgrade and upgrade the T-Bahn network in the capital.’ Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a mechanism to strengthen the scope and development of alternative learning forms and resources, amounting to DKK 1 000 per year. students per year; school year, from 2004 onwards.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e6174	There is a vote on proposal No. 47, from the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider taking in four recipients of the cultural memory fund’. The central party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e6191	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 40 to 44, from the Advance Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormsCroner167Flighting measures in Norway, approved as development aid New Odontology Building, granted by 10 000 00050State grants, increased by 40 000 000 from NOK 1 623 346 000 to NOK 1 663 346 000262Norway University of Technology50State grants, increased by 31 000 000 from NOK 2 232 589 000 to NOK 2 263 589 000263University of Tromsø50State grants, increased by 18 000 000 from NOK 984 309 000 to NOK 1 002 309 000270Studies abroad and social purposes for pupils and students75Associations to the construction of student housing, can be transferred, increased by 55 000 from NOK 199 959 000 to NOK 254 959 000310Indeed grants to religious communities, etc. and private church buildings75Contributions to private church buildings, increased by 7,200 000 from NOK 5000000 to NOK 12 200 000430Criminal care central administration Extraordinary expenditure on watchkeeping, etc., estimates, can be transferred, granted by 50 000 0001320 state road services [[NY]] [[NY]] [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4320)]] Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make a stronger use of unconditional judgments in criminal proceedings for repeated crimes of gain, violence and sexual perpetrators.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The Government asks for the start of the construction of the new research building at the Radium Hospital by the end of January 2004’.» Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘In the 2003 State budget, Chapter 1 is added. 2711 Miscellaneous measures in the specialist health service item 72 Reimbursement of dental care, the Keyword may be transferred.» Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to continue partly tied food aid and to make a larger part of the aid partially tied, in order to give Norwegian industry the same opportunities as other donor countries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e6532	There is a vote on proposal No. 39, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjectivesCrones857Children and youth measures75 Voluntary work for children and young people locally [[(see section 4.4). cap. 950)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e6607	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 37 and 38, from the Advance Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjectivesCroner743State incentives for mental health75Contributions to the strengthening of mental health protection can be transferred, increased by 50 000 000 from NOK 1 165 350 000 to NOK 1 215 350 0001062Coastal work [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4062)]] Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The Stine Sofies Foundation shall be entrusted with a permanent appropriation of the State budget for the abovementioned activities. The budget for 2003 is set at NOK 500000.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e6696	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 32 and 34–36, from the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormsCroner1427Directorate for Nature Management [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4427)]] Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the effect of the conversion of the social welfare legislation to a single mother or father, in order to ensure that beneficiaries receive a sustainable and independent income base, without the need for social assistance after the end of the social welfare period.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to cover as soon as possible the lack of operating grants to the crisis centres that have not yet been cleared their operating grants for 2003 at least at the level of the operating grants for 2002.’» Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The Council asks the Government in connection with the 2004 State Budget to make proposals to strengthen and expand the operation and management of national parks and other areas of protection.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e6790	Proposal No. 33, from the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government continue to operate at the School of Police at Säter Gård, Kongsvinger and Bruvoll, Nord-Odal.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 28–31, from the Party of Advances, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormsCroner621Contributions to municipal services, organisations etc.63Assignments to drug action may be transferred, increased by 35 000 000 from NOK 171 200000 to NOK 206 200 0005546Assignment to final treatment of waste70Assignment to final treatment of waste, reduced by 65 000 000 from NOK 56 000 000 to NOK 495 000» Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘As from 1 July 2003, the decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 2 December 2002 on the one-off charge for motor vehicles, etc. is amended as follows: for the 2003 budget:§ 2 Fee group d is replaced by the following:Combined cars with a total authorised weight up to 3500 kg:55 pst. of the fee under fee group (a).’;» Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals in the 2004 State Budget for the establishment of a loan scheme for the upgrading of church buildings similar to that established for the upgrading of school buildings where municipalities receive interest-free and deductible loans for the upgrading of church buildings. The scheme must cover both sheltered churches and all other churches.» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring an action for the establishment of a broadband fund.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e6898	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 24–27, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cap.PostFormålKroner221Grunnskolen, [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5312 and 5615)]] Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 2 December 2002 on the levy on the State Treasury on inheritance and gifts for the 2003 Budgetary Memory is amended as follows:§ 4 shall be replaced by:The inheritance and gifts to the children of the heir/donor, the foster child — including the stepchild who has been raised by the heir/donor — and the parents, shall be answered as follows: Of the first 200,000 kroner, none of the next 300,000 kroner, 8 pst. Of the excess 20 pst. Section 5 is replaced by the following: Of inheritances and gifts not covered by Section 4, the following answers: Of the first 200,000 kroner, none of the next 300,000 10 pst. Of the excess 30 pst. IIThe change under I has an effect on inheritance and gift where the death or transition of the gift transfer takes place after the end of June 2003. ‘... Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2003, the Decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 2 December 2002 on the levying of alcohol for the 2003 budgetary period shall be amended as follows:§ 1 shall be replaced by the following: 11 if excise duties are payable to the State Treasury on the importation or domestic production of spirit, isopropanol, wine, fruit wine, mead and beer of the following amounts:(a) spirit-based drink with an alcoholic strength exceeding 0,7 % vol.; NOK 5.44 per. volume and litre.b) Other alcoholic beverages:1. with an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 22 % vol.; DKK 5.44 per alcohol. volume and litre,2. with an alcoholic strength by volume of 15-22 % vol.; kr 3.55 per. volume and litre,3. with an alcoholic strength by volume of more than 4,75 % vol. and less than 15 % vol.; volume and litre,4. with an alcoholic strength of:a) up to and including 0,7 % by volume of alcohol subject to a tax charge in accordance with the rules for non-alcoholic beverages,b) above 0,7 up to and including 2,75 % by volume of alcohol: DKK 2,43 per alcohol. litre,c) more than 2,75 up to and including 3,75 % vol. alcohol: kr 9,18 per cent. litre,d) more than 3,75 up to and including 4,75 % vol. alcohol: kr 15,89 per. litre.’» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The budget agrees that the Ministry of Labour and Administration may make commitments to grant grants beyond the allocation of ordinary labour market measures. 1594 heading 70 of further 80.9 million. SEK in addition to the commitment mandates previously given.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e7519	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22 and 23, from the Workers' Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjectivesCroner430Criminal care central administration Grants to the Centre for the Competence of the Fisheries Industry may be transferred, awarded by 5 000 0005312The Norwegian State Husbank [[NY]] [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2412)]] Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back with a proposal to raise the tax-free corporate gift limit in the 2004 State Budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e7642	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cape TownConstructionCrones1320 Road transport services Road transport services Racial protection is granted by 150 000 000’» [[NY]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e7689	There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormsCroner278Norway high school of agriculture50State grants, increased by 5 000 000 from NOK 414 007 000 to NOK 419 007 000’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e7742	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to ensure, in an appropriate manner, that the Debt Victim Alliance is provided with the financial support necessary to maintain its operation.’ The central party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e7759	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjectivesCroner172Fundslette70Fundsledge measures, can be transferred, reduced by 13 000 000 from NOK 350 000 000 to NOK 337 000 000286Funds for research and innovation [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3286)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e7836	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostDestinationCrones259Competence development programme:21Special operating expenditure, reduced by 20 000 000 from 60 718 000 to 40 718 000310Contributions to religious communities, etc. 75Additions to private church buildings, increased by 2,200 000 from NOK 5000000 to NOK 7 200 000551Regional development and innovation:60Contributions to counties and regional development, reduced by 57 000 000 from NOK 1 116 500000 to NOK 1 059 500 000580Dwelling aid70Dwelling aid, reduced by 120 000 000 from NOK 2 084 300 000 to NOK 1 964 300 0001350Railway works30Investment in the line, increased by 135 000 000 from NOK 1 346 100 000 to NOK 1 481 1001427Directorate of Natural Management70Bundings for liming and local fishing purposes, reduced by 20 000 000 from NOK 98 200 000 to NOK 78 200 0002420 National Food and Rural Development Fund [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5320 and 5620)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e8080	There is a vote on proposal No. 15 and 16, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cape TownPostDestination:Croner1062Kystverket [[(see section 4.4). cap. 1634)]] Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the implementation of State development contracts.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e8208	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Right Party, the Christian Party, the Left Party, and the Coast Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cape Town PostDestinationCrones170FN organisations, etc. :76Additives via the UN system, etc., may be transferred, reduced by 20 000 000 from NOK 1 340 000 to NOK 1 320 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e8264	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 12, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cape VerdeObjective:Croner282Private higher education70Additional, reduced by NOK 23 000 000from NOK 511 485 000 to NOK 488 485 000719Health promotion and prevention72The AAN-Alternative for abortion in Norway, reduced by NOK 5 000 000 from NOK 13 570 000 to NOK 8 570 000929Company competence transfer70Additional, increased by NOK 3 000 000 from NOK 41000 to NOK 44 000 0001465 The purchase by the Member States of the services of the Swedish government agency21Payment for the state mission can be transferred, increased by NOK 16 000 000 from NOK 349 254 000 to NOK 365 254 0002541Day money70Day money, allocation of estimates, increased by NOK 2 550 000 from NOK 8 023 500000 to NOK 10 573 500000’» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to see how the pharmacies-to-custom freight reduction scheme is practised and returned to the Stortinget with proposals that eliminate unforeseen burdens on customers in the 2004 budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e8415	Proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government ensure that the current exemption from the electricity charge to industry is applied in line with the Danish charging system from 1 January 2004.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e8423	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Right, Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision takes note of the fact that the Government does not propose legislative changes to facilitate testing of injection rooms, see St. pp. [[2002-2003]] No 65
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e8438	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Right, Christian People's Party, the Center Party, and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cape TownPostDestination: Kroner2445State Building [[(see section 4.4). cap. (Rule 5445)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e8494	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from the right, the Christian party, the centurion, the left, and the coastal party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cape.PostObjective:Croner164Peace, reconciliation and democracy71ODA-approved countries in the Balkans and other ODA-approved OSCE countries, can be transferred, reduced by 105 000 000 from €922 000 000 to €817 000 000171Multilateral financial institutions70The World Bank, can be transferred, reduced by 60 000 000 from €584 000 000 to €524 000 000581Dwelling and housing measures75Dwelling grants for establishment, renovation and rental housing, can be transferred, reduced by 10 000 000 from NOK 665 000 000 to NOK 655 000» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The budget agrees that, in 2003, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will be able to offer grants in addition to the grant granted, but so that the overall framework for new commitments and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: Chapter.PostNameTotal framework581Dwelling and housing measures75Dwelling grants for the establishment, repair and rental of dwellings196.8 million. crowns’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e8637	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party: Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Croners240Private schools, etc.70Contributions, estimate allocation, reduced by 200 000 000 from NOK 1777 646 000 to NOK 1 577 646 0002711Various measures in the specialist health service78Accommodation institutions, etc., increased by 16 800 000 from NOK 700 851000 to NOK 717 651 000» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose measures to ensure that long-term unemployed persons with a registered period of leave beyond 2 years are guaranteed a job offer, education or labour market measure.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e8721	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cape Town Post Purpose: Kroner1830Energy research [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4829)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e8774	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Cape Town PostDestination:Croner553Test61 Compensation to the municipality of Rødøy, awarded with 10 000 0001570 [[NY]] [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4570)]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: Operational credit in the fishing industry1. A State guarantee scheme for operational credit in the fishing industry is hereby established.2. The scheme is managed by the State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund by giving SND access to such guarantees.3. The 2003 guarantee framework is set at 200 million. kronor.4. 50 million. crowns of the appropriation under the heading. Item 55 is used for loss funds.5. The scheme shall enter into force immediately.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e8860	Proposal No. 114, from the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, has been converted into transmission proposals. The proposal shall then read as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government carry out a broad impact assessment of the changes that the Minister of Health is now making within the various health establishments, leading to the establishment and closure of food departments, treatment services and emergency care in hospitals. The impact assessment shall be submitted to Stortinget prior to the implementation of the changes.’; The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 109, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government agrees that the Government is authorised to take the necessary measures to assist the pioneers with advice and assistance in economic conditions pending the Government’s proposal for the Storting on the basis of NOO 2003:5 The Pioneer Divers in the North Sea.’ SV, the Progress Party and the Government Parties have notified that they support this proposal subsidized.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e8882	There is a vote on proposal No. 110, from the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return with start-up appropriations for further detailed planning and final construction appropriations for the Falstad Centre in the National Budget for 2004’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e8897	There is a vote on proposal No. 119, from the Labour Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e8954	We must now have come to the point where we should be able to start voting on the vote on the motion for a resolution. In the subsequent vote, the parties, in line with what has been practice in recent years in the treatment of the revised national budget, are prepared by the final vote to abstain from the vote they would normally take – this in order to avoid a very time-consuming and partly complicated voting where the result is nevertheless given. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against a party on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e15936	The President will first address the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 State budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.Post Purpose:Crones1023Fishing, aquaculture and transport-oriented R & D [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4023)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e16017	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 108, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Croner2410 State Loan Fund for Education [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2410):]] This proposal corrects the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e16108	The President will then vote on proposal No. 118, presented by the President. As the President explained, the background to this proposal is the necessary adjustments resulting from decisions taken by the Stortinge yesterday evening on the current year's budget, which are naturally not taken into account in the relevant chapters and items of the present draft decision. The proposal reads as follows: «Cape.PostDestinationsCroner664Performance fees for sailors:70Additionals, increased by... 68 000 000 from 403 600 000 to NOK 471 600 000701Research and experimental activities:21Special operating expenses, increased by... 542 000 from NOK 72 758 000 to NOK 73 300 0001542Aids to the State Pension Fund:1Operating expenditure, estimated appropriations, reduced by... 120 702 000from NOK 2 552 758 000 to NOK 2 432 056 0001542Aids to the State Pension Fund:70For other members of the State Pension Fund, the estimated amount is reduced by... 63 498 000from NOK 94 284 000 to NOK 30 786 0002600Trekknetate:1Operating expenditure, increased by... 76 200 000 from NOK 4 674 200 000 to NOK 4 750 400 0002652Medical rehabilitation, etc. :70Rehabilitation allowance, estimated appropriation, is reduced by... 220 000 000from SEK 7 803 000 000 to SEK 7 583 000 000 0002683Union aid to a single mother or father [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5701):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e16477	The President will then refer to a correction made by the Chairman of the Committee. It's about heading 60 under the hood. 582 shall be replaced by the words ‘transferable’. It has been proposed and is deemed to have been adopted unanimously. The proposals are then put to the vote. 116 and 117 from the Workers' Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e16522	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 115, from the Workers' Party, Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal corrects XXXV in draft decisions and reads: ‘XXXV Unused funds of 5,55 million. crowns under cap. 451 Social security and preparedness item 45 Major acquisitions of equipment and maintenance, transferred from the 2002 budget, may be transferred to Chapter. 2309 Random expenses.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e16537	The Committee will now be consulted on its position — all Chapters and Items under IA, with the corrections resulting from the decisions already taken by the Stortinge, B and all Roman numerals, with the exception of XXXIII and XL, with the corrections already made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e16547	So it goes over XXXIII and XL. The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party are behind the vote, so it is expected that the Right Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e16580	There is a different proposal from the Progress Party: ‘The Government asks the Government, in the context of the 2004 budget, to propose a reduction in the levy for ‘sulphur-free’ environmental petrol and diesel to be made available on the Norwegian market from 1 January 2004.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e16644	The President assumes that the Central Party here will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e16672	The vote will take place on behalf of the Committee of the Regions, on the proposal from Mr Gærmund Hagesetter, representing the Group of the Party of European Socialists, submitted by the meeting of 16 June 2003: ‘The government asks the Government to include an assessment of the taxation of transmission and distribution facilities for property tax purposes in the general review of electricity taxes and concession-based schemes set out in Ot.prp. No Add [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e16687	President! I voted in favour of voting against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e16694	Same thing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e16701	There are several things that apply – we will then take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-20.ana.ud1707e16729	Before the meeting is cancelled, the President will be allowed to thank all the major representatives for the excellent cooperation we have had through this session. The press is trying to create the impression that there are chaotic conditions in the Storting. I must strongly distance myself from that. The majority decision has been taken by the majority in all cases referred to and dealt with. This suggests that there is a good spirit of cooperation, while the political parties are active in an attempt to speak up the cause of their voters. I would also like to thank all the employees of Stortinget, especially the director of Stortinget and the secretary of Stortinget, for an excellent job. I also thank the press release for the cooperation in the session with which we are now done. [[muttering in the hall]]
