ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e56	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e67	As case rapporteur for the Alternative Treatment of Disease Act, I want to give the Minister of Health credit for presenting a case to the Stortinget which undoubtedly means an important step towards modernising the Alternative Treatment Code in Norway. This also implies a step towards more cleanliness in the industry for alternative treatment providers and thus better safety for the many patients who use different alternative therapies. I would also like to pay tribute to the members of the Committee for constructive work on this matter. I have to admit, however, that in the course of the work on the matter, I saw opportunities and the need to reach beyond what both the Government's case proposal and what the majority was going to stand for. I will comment on these areas later in this article. I see above all what Odelstinget decides today, as an important stage in a process that needs to take some time. This applies not least to measures in so-called extrajudicial areas, such as increased focus on research, documentation, quality assurance in the field of education, enhanced professional development of both personnel and in different therapies, better information for patients, etc. The legal regulation of alternative treatment is primarily reflected in the purpose paragraph of the Act, which states that the law should contribute to the safety of patients receiving alternative treatment. The law then regulates the exercise of such treatment by the practitioners. The law clarifies unequivocally that medical intervention or treatment that could pose a serious health risk to patients should only be carried out by healthcare professionals. Similarly, only health professionals are required to treat infectious diseases, as defined in the Act on Protection against Infectious Diseases § 1-3. Furthermore, the law specifies that the treatment of serious diseases and disorders other than those covered by Section 6 of the Act on Alternative Treatment of Diseases, etc., should not be carried out by any other than health professionals. This little glimpse into the legal text makes it apparent that an obsolete quack salvage permit is now being replaced. It has taken time to get a case about alternative treatment in Stortinget. There have been many initiatives, especially from Stortinget. Without giving any historical review, I can point to the Committee's comments on St.meld. No 41 for 1987-1988 Health policy towards the year 2000 in Innst. S. No 120 for 1988-1989. Furthermore, I can mention the treatment of St.meld. No 37 for 1992-1993, St.meld. No 50 for 1993-1994 and NOU 1998:21 Alternative medicine – Aarbakke Committee’s suspension of 15 December 1998. Much of this forms the basis for the matter we have to deal with today. There has been a significant and continuous increase in the use of alternative treatment in our country over the past 15-20 years. Several studies show that up to 40 pst. by the respondents, state that they have used alternative treatments, and more and more people want these treatments as an alternative or supplement to regular health care. A very central question has been and is the issue of so-called serious and non-serious treatments and treatment. Both for me and for the Committee, it has been an important matter to obtain both legal and non-judicial measures that can assist in such a clean-up. I know that serious practitioners in the industry are very concerned about this. I therefore believe that we are on the right track. We probably have approx. 5000 organised alternative practitioners. Of these, about 1,500 are authorised health professionals. A study among the members of the Norwegian Medical Association shows that 4 pst. by the doctors practiced acupuncture, while 1 pst. practiced one of the other forms of therapy. It is also right to mention that the group of authorised processors is very diverse. The industry today appears to be very inconspicuous, with over 40 executive organisations as well as many small schools and training firms. Competence is very different, naturally enough. Some have long education, others have very short courses, and many lack formal competence. These conditions make it very difficult for users to inform themselves about treatment provision, while at the same time it is difficult to assess the professional anchoring of many therapies. When this is said, I have come in contact with many people who have taken advantage of alternative treatment, have come to understand that there is an offer very many would like to have. And I must also stress in this context the seriousness on which many alternative therapists build their work and their therapy. In addition to the legal regulation that we are now making through our own law, it is high time that the authorities put pressure on and contribute to improvements and measures for the industry. The proposals of the Minister for Health contribute somewhat to this. The Committee's position reinforces this in some areas, while a minority would like to go further. Legislation on voluntary health care professionals and other alternative treatment professionals is good, and it has both the support of the Committee and, as I understand it, of the industry. This implies that membership of recognised organisations provides a basis for inclusion in register schemes if any conditions are met, such as: conduct of business, documentation of valid insurance which also covers any liability to patients, etc. The proposal also reveals a large gap in the organisation and quality of training in the industry. Variations are made visible through the range of education in total from weekend courses to long-term part-time education. I believe that one of the main steps to ensure a cleaner and better quality industry is going through improvements in education for many. It is a pity, therefore, that only the Workers’ Party and the Centre Party believe that the proposed register system should also apply to private educational institutions. This could have created more cleanliness and the necessary overview. I encourage the Minister of Health to assess this after this treatment. Only the same batches also believe that patient data protection should be significantly improved. That is why we have proposed a regulatory home for the ministry to ensure this by the pattern of, among other things. the law on the processing of personal data and the law on health records and the processing of health data. This could have been a contribution to further professionalising the industry. Cleanness and clarity of personal data issues are important. I also ask the department to consider this in retrospect. The Committee strongly supports the creation of a contact forum between organisations of alternative treatment providers, user organisations and the authorities and a joint secretariat for them. This can be important and useful, especially now in a start-up phase. Training and training in the field is a major challenge. The field of education is not regulated by public authorities but is largely self-regulated and is likely to be so in the future. However, the Committee believes that in the future the authorities will have to provide incentives to develop the field of education in the future together with the industry. In my opinion, however, there is a need for a semi-public training council to be set up, which could be composed of representatives of the training organisations, private training institutions in the industry and public authorities. Such advice could be an inspiration to quality assurance of training provision. The proposal calls for more appropriate coordination of the industry, but the instruments and measures are largely lacking. The need for more coordination is evident. More than 40 individual organisations which are to act uncoordinated, inter alia. the authorities will appear weakly pervasive, and the authorities will have to deal with a fragmented and poorly organised industry. The individual small exercise organisation will be difficult to deal with large and complex challenges within its own member base and in its contact with authority. I believe that the department should start a work with a view to establishing a main organisation for the organisations in the industry. Although it is only the Workers' Party and the Center Party that support this idea in the setting, this should be a theme for the above mentioned Contact Forum. Time will tell when more people think this is a necessity. Research is very important. Increased research efforts and systematic acquisition of research from other countries are important. The establishment of the National Research Centre for Complementary and Alternative Medicine is very good, and this centre deserves increased support, also in view of the establishment of satellite environments in the next round at other research institutions. The issue of authorisation is complex. The Biggest can and should do so are to draw up basic guidelines with a view to possibly granting new groups of authorisations. This is well divided in principle by the entire Committee, although a minority ask the Government to consider named therapies for authorisation. The value added question is not easy either, but I refer here to the comments where the ministry is supported to go further in the evaluation of other forms of therapy than those currently exempted from VAT. The term ‘alternative treatment’ is hardly the concept that best covers the content of the practice of the industry, but the concept is simple and popular, and the majority have supported the ministry in this respect. The working party and the Centre will primarily select terms that appear to be more consistent with what is used in a number of countries, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. the term «complementary and alternative medicine». After a so-called total assessment, where a person wants to find an understanding both in school medical circles and in alternative treatment circles, these two parties have chosen the term ‘complementary and alternative treatment’. I believe that the law we are now adopting, and the non-judicial measures being promoted, will bring this matter forward. There's a great need for it, because very many people use these therapies either as the only form of treatment or as an addition to others. That means that the authorities should show a little more interest in that than is now apparent in the majority position. I think that time will soon show that it is necessary to move on both in terms of quality assurance of treatment and at the same time to make users more confident about what treatment they are actually receiving.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e126	In Norway, there is now a significant increase in the use of alternative forms of treatment. It is therefore high time to put in place a modern framework, a legislative proposal to regulate alternative treatment that provides the basis for a better distinction between the unprofessional and serious offers currently available on the market. Some alternative treatment practitioners have long-term education in their field, while other alternative treatment providers lack all forms of formal competence. It is positive that the Government will now, through an investigation, decide on the authorisation of new groups of alternative treatment providers. Fortunately, the freedom of choice of patients is on the rise, and the time is too long for more formal cooperation between school medicine and alternative medicine. The new law provides for an embellishment of the restrictions on access to such treatment in relation to existing legislation. The law allows alternative treatment in cooperation with the patient’s doctor to be provided in addition to school medical treatment also in the case of serious diseases. Despite the increasing use of alternative treatment, the use in established healthcare in Norway is very modest compared to other countries. With regard to cooperation projects and the status of the integration of alternative treatment into Norwegian healthcare, a reference to integration projects at Hålogaland Hospital in Harstad and at the University Hospital in Tromsø can be found. Acupuncture is now offered at Aker University Hospital and at Sunnaas Hospital. If we look beyond Norway’s borders, the offer is increasingly available in British hospitals. In the United States, several medical universities, including known Harvard, have joined forces to promote education, research and treatment within what is referred to as integrative medicine. A private hospital chain in the United States called the Santa Monica Clinics is based on the full integration of alternative treatment and established medicine. Santa Monica clinics are now being established in Germany and Poland. As developments are in Norway, there is a clear need to remove the quack salver law and to establish a legal regulation of alternative treatment. We now have a law that takes care of patients’ freedom of choice and security, a law that facilitates an approach between healthcare and alternative treatment, based on cleanliness and honesty. In order to further develop and strengthen supply, an increase in research and cooperation projects is proposed. It is proposed to establish professional development measures which may form the basis for a convergence between alternative treatment and the established healthcare system. A dedicated information bank and a contact forum between organisations of alternative processors, user organisations and authorities shall be established. The registry mechanism requires the exerciser organisations and their members to be able to become registered practitioners. Provision is made for the exercisers’ organisations to have articles of association which lay down professional and ethical requirements for members, while at the same time providing for complaints procedures for patients. The right is pleased that, in the future, we will be able to offer a safe, well and more varied treatment provision to all. We in the Right look forward to a positive and good cooperation between alternative treatment providers and the established healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e143	Legal regulation with a positive attitude to alternative treatment has been requested for a long time here in Stortinget. In that way, this day is actually a little bit historical compared to alternative medicine versus school medicine. In the Aarbakke Committee's investigation NOU 1998:21 on alternative medicine, we find the preliminary work on the present proposition and adjustment. Alternative treatment is becoming increasingly widespread throughout the world and also in Norway. School medicine has also shown a more positive approach to alternative treatment in recent years. Many play today practice both school medicine and alternative treatment. More and more doctors today cooperate more positively with their patients than before, providing advice and guidance on the use of alternative forms of treatment. An increasing number of health professionals have also acquired knowledge and training in alternative treatment, not least this applies to acupuncture, manual therapy, herbal medicine and homeopathy. The proposition discusses the definition to be used for different non-health care treatments. The Progress Party supports the definition of ‘alternative treatment’, which does not provide such strong association with school medicine as, for example, ‘alternative medicine’. The definition of ‘alternative treatment’ is also a better definition. There are both serious and unprofessional alternatives, so patients are currently having problems orientating themselves in the market, and it is therefore good that we now get a law that will sort between the unprofessional and the serious therapists. The party of progress is largely satisfied with the Government's proposal, which adds to both legal and extrajudicial regulations. This approach will promote an increased understanding of alternative treatment, while the law in several fields provides users with a better basis for choosing between the different services. I think the government has found a good balance between legal regulation and non-judicial matters. The proposal is broadly accepted by the Committee. The structure and conclusions of the proposition respect the freedom of users to make their own choices in this area as well. I am glad that there is also alternative treatment in pain relief, symptomatic treatment and support treatment in relation to the immune system even in case of severe disease, which has been controversial in the past. It is also positive that the Government is proposing a significant increase in research in this area. In some areas, the Progress Party stands alone on comments and proposals. The Progress Party has a note with the Workers' Party, stressing that the registration of alternative treatment providers requires requirements for the private educational environments. The party considers that general education before further education in the subject should be at the university level. The foreground party expected that the proposition had further assessed the granting of authorisation to some well-established alternative treatment providers, such as acupuncturists, naprapats, osteopates and homeopaths. In particular, we are disappointed that acupunctors without a health professional background, but with documented professional background and practice, have not been assessed under the Health Care Act § 48. Acupuncture is currently a well-established treatment method for many different conditions and especially in pain management, anaesthesia and in the case of birth help. Acupuncture is currently used in several Norwegian hospitals. I can show here that Princess Martha Louise, when she was born recently, received acupuncture instead of normal pain treatment. I also point out that the World Health Organisation has expressed a positive opinion in various contexts for the use of acupuncture for treatment purposes. It makes sense that the proposition does not consider reimbursement when you do not accept authorization. So doctors that also give acupuncture get some kind of combination reaction. The Progress Party proposes in the suspension to grant authorisation under the Health Care Professional Act to acupunctuators. Similarly, the Party asks the Government to consider providing reimbursement to acupunctors with a non-healthy background. As the Party sees it, further work should be undertaken on greater non-discrimination between alternative treatment providers and health professionals in the field of value added tax. Serious alternative treatment providers, like healthcare professionals, should be exempted from VAT. The Progress Party is very positive that with public support an information bank is set up, which I believe can be of great importance in terms of concrete information to users, so that when they make their choice they are given proper guidance in security. Finally, I refer to the suggestions made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e169	The representative John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e172	I think there is reason to commend the Government for the work that has been done. This is not an easy area, and it has been possible to arrive at balanced conclusions, which protect groups that, until now, may have had difficulty obtaining approval, but which will now be assessed, while creating a distinction in relation to unprofessional market players. It is, as others have also been, in many ways historically compared to the fact that the former quack salsa law will now be replaced. I also think that the case rapporteur has managed to get the field out in a good way. SV belongs to the vast majority of all the legislative proposals that lie here, and has no minority proposals to make, and that's precisely because we think the government has done a good and solid job. It's important to point out that the field we're talking about here is extremely defective. One might get the impression, I think, when someone uses the term ‘alternative treatment’, that it should be a kind of homogeneous group, with different approaches to the exercise of treatment, but that all of them should have access to a type of common organisation where the State also contributes to ensuring the seriousness of the problem. And that's exactly the kind of approach that we in SV have disagreed with. That is why we agree with the Government. If you think about what kind of actors we're talking about, it could be anything from people who have basic training in medicine or in physiotherapy to nurses who have taken on additional training in a related subject area but are not yet fully approved. A typical example of this can be acupuncture, where we gradually get more and more research tasks that document effects in different areas, not least in pain management. And then you have on the other extreme persons – I don't want to characterize them necessarily as unprofessional – that, for example, by prayer stop blood. It's a phenomenon that's hard to explain and hard to understand. But if you look at some of the proposals that are from the minority, and you're going to take them seriously, you think that someone who stops blood at prayer is going to have a journal duty, is it supposed to be a public task to provide a proper training course in order to be able to stop blood? It gets kind of caricatured – and it's supposed to be, just because I'm perfectly open to you always having different people who may have characteristics it's hard to explain, but you have to have a clear distinction when the state is going to go in and take responsibility for approval schemes. And I feel that the government has landed in a tidy way. So it has to be that, to the extent that you assess the authorisation of new groups, there has to be, of course, a type of application that can be evaluated in terms of authorisation. That's why SV has been reluctant to go into creating a kind of list of new groups. But we accept what the government itself has put up to, because we think you're pretty good at the groups that are mentioned, because they're right at the point where it might seem reasonable that it could go in the direction of a type of authorization. I would like to highlight chiropractic as an example of a long-term professional group on the side of the traditional healthcare system, which was met with quite great scepticism, for example, from my own profession, the doctors, but which have gradually become more and more likely to have a place where they have accepted solid knowledge both in terms of x-rays and in terms of different forms of treatment. What has initially been called alternative treatment has become more and more part of the traditional form of treatment — which is a natural development. We see the same thing within acupuncture. What has been entirely on the side and which has been difficult to understand – one has had explanation mechanisms related to Chinese understanding – goes more into traditional medicine based on mechanisms of understanding about the release of the body's own substances, endorphins, and then this becomes part of traditional medical treatment. Then it becomes natural on the basis of certain given criteria that new groups are subsequently authorised. But I record that someone from the minority believes that you, for example. should consider reimbursement schemes for acupuncture without simultaneously defining the content of education. And there's an SV disagree. If you, for example, giving authorisation to cheese growers, there must also be an understanding at the bottom of what education is to be done, and what kind of professional requirements are to be imposed, so that to groups who do not have that training, one can say that they cannot rightly call themselves cheese growers, because they do not have the education at the bottom of the authorization. There has to be a consistent logic in that what is initially called alternative treatment, is gradually becoming part of the overall healthcare provision that can benefit the public, and which can be explained by why you go well, rather linked to scientific research methods that are used in the various areas. Then I have registered one area where we do not agree with the Government's reasoning, and it is related to whether health professionals should be subject to VAT or not. I have registered that there has been a debate that has been going on since the imposition of a turnover tax on services. A very sensible approach must have been to say that you have authorisation as a healthcare professional, so you are exempt from VAT, and if you do not have it, you are not exempted. The dilemma now is that any group that is not exempted will apply to be exempted, with various good or less good reasons. However, if it is linked to the authorisation itself, it will also be possible to make professional demands based on the law on health professionals to the person who performs the treatment, and to point out that if there is a breach of it, it will also have consequences in relation to performing the work as a health professional. In this way, one would have had a clean system which was a factual reason why one might have been exempt from VAT. What is initially to be assumed is that authorised health professionals — even when carrying out tasks that may be a little side of traditional medicine, for example: gives acupuncture — including the professionalism they possess through their basic education, and the scepticism with which they will naturally follow, into the alternative treatment, and will have a different type of restriction from what they want, which has no vocational training at the bottom. But, as I said, I would like to stress that there is a solid document the Government has given up, and it is a solid work done by the case-rapporteur in the committee. This has brought us much further with regard to the legislation we are going to have in this area, a modern legislation that will make it much easier in the future to deal with different occupational groups that are applying in different ways for acceptance from the treatment they provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e195	The government is adding Ot. pp. No 27 for 2002-2003 put forward proposals for a new law on alternative treatment of disease. For the Christian People's Party, it is gratifying that the Government is addressing the problems and possibilities that lie within this area, and is now establishing a modernized framework for alternative treatment in Norway. The government’s proposal takes account of the patient’s choice and security, while at the same time providing for a certain convergence between normal health care and alternative treatment. The extent of alternative treatment is increasing. A growing number consider this an independent alternative, or a supplement to the healthcare provided in the regular health service. In parallel with this, the number of alternative treatment providers has increased, both seriously and unprofessionally. The view of alternative treatment in the people is still very varied. For the Christian People's Party, there are two superior positions that must be taken. Firstly, we need to ensure a good health supply for the population, to strengthen public health and to work towards a priority and socio-economic use of resources in society. Secondly, it is important that patients are protected against unprofessional treatment, while patients have their right of self-determination and freedom of choice. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government in its proposal takes care of its patients' safety and protects them from risk. It is appropriate to point out that the group of alternative agents is very inconspicuous. Some treatment providers, as mentioned earlier in the debate, have long-term education in the field of treatment, while others lack formal competence. It is decisive that consumers are not exposed to health hazards or are otherwise led to treatment that can be directly discarded. Therefore, the Christian People’s Party supports the proposal that medical interventions or treatments that may pose serious health risks should only be carried out by healthcare professionals. If alternative treatment methods that have demonstrated an effect are to be more recognised, it is desirable to cooperate and integrate more closely between the regular healthcare service and alternative care providers. This must be done within a law with a framework that both treats and patients can do little. The proposition fulfills the Christian People's Party's wish in this area. In this context, the Christian People's Party would stress the need for the Governing Body to become an active participant in the alternative staff, while at the same time facilitating interaction between different groups and the ordinary health services. Today, there are both serious and unprofessional treatment providers and treatments in Norway. If the cooperation between the normal health services and the alternative care providers is to be fruitful, it is decisive that a basis is created for distinguishing between the unprofessional and the serious offerings. This also follows the proposition well. Several measures will be outlined. In this context, the Christian People's Party will in particular bring forward the proposed register system. Systematic cooperation and integration formulate requirements for the qualifications of the alternative operator and for the content of cooperation. At the same time, it is important that alternative practitioners describe their forms of treatment and formulate the recommendations for the alternative forms of treatment to act as an alternative or a supplement to school medicine. It is an important principle for the Christian People's Party that the patient should have the freedom to choose between different health services, even outside what has traditionally been part of the Norwegian healthcare service. This requires that the knowledge of alternative treatment be increased and that patients be able to benefit from these knowledge. This is how the freedom of choice becomes real, as well as the security of the patient being strengthened. And in this area, too, the proposition is going to follow up. The aim of building up knowledge is to provide a better basis for decisions on governance, administrative level and clinical level, while allowing users to make informed and informed choices. Powers and health services need to facilitate and apply at all times medically most effective and cost-effective treatment methods, with a view to the best possible outcome for the patient. However, in order to make a real choice and make real priorities between interventions, there is a need to provide evidence of impact. The strongest point of appeal against alternative treatment is the lack of documented efficacy. This is the starting point for increased research efforts to be needed. Research needs to have a broad approach. This applies thematically in relation to the type of effect being investigated and methodologically in relation to which studies are used. This effect may include both cure, prevention and rehabilitation of disease, relief of symptoms and self-experienced relief and measles of a disease situation. There is a need for new knowledge and a better understanding of the knowledge that already exists, as well as new research. The creation of NAFKAM in Tromsø was therefore an important step, and the Christian People's Party, in conjunction with the rest of the Committee, has given full support to the establishment of this centre, pointing out that this operation must be expanded in order to strengthen the scientific environment. For the Christian People's Party, it is a central goal that the population can make safe and real choices when it comes to alternative treatment. An important element to ensure that choices are made is that the population and health services have access to information on alternative forms of treatment. The government's proposal to create an information bank would be to secure this very goal. Alternatives to treatment have not yet been passed through in ordinary channels in the healthcare system, and health authorities have therefore per year. Today, little and to some extent random interaction with these trainer environments. The proposal to create a contact forum between organisations of alternative handlers, user organisations and regulators is now changing this. The establishment of research activities, the establishment of an information bank and the contact forum will provide educational institutions with access to neutral information on the different forms of treatment and their explanatory models. In order to ensure good quality of alternative treatment, education is important. But the Christian People's Party primarily believes that the provision of education in alternative treatment should not be a public responsibility. The Christian People's Party also believes that it must be up to the industry itself to find out in what way they want to organize. There is currently no public authorisation system for alternative processors. There are several groups of alternative treatment providers who have applied to be authorised after the introduction of the healthcare professionals. The main purpose of the authorisation scheme is to ensure the safety of patients. The authorisation system shall ensure that health professionals are qualified to hold a specific professional role. Authorisation of new groups under health professionals legislation will set these groups against the same requirements, rights and obligations as current authorised health professionals. For the Christian People's Party, it is necessary that the authorisation also means that there is sufficient evidence that the treatment method is effective. The fact that osteopaths, naprapates and manual therapists are now to be authorised as self-employed health professionals after health professionals will give a greater acceptance to the alternative types of treatment that have proven efficacy. For the Christian People's Party, putting the patient in the centre means that the patient must also have the freedom to choose treatment methods that are not part of the ordinary healthcare service. Studies show that about one third of the Norwegian population disclose the benefit of alternative treatment once or more. For these, today's decisions show themselves as joyous. It will now be more possible to distinguish between serious and unprofessional users.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e235	There has been an increasing use of alternative medicine in Norway, not least in the last 10–15 years, and there is a need for a clean-up within this field. There is therefore reason to commend the Minister of Health that he has now made a proposition to bring more cleanliness within this field. The Aarbakke Committee presented its position in the form of NOU 1998:21, and it has been a good time since then. The size has been impatient to produce a policy based on the setting of the Aarbakke Committee. Now it's here, and the Minister of Health should be commended for that. We might have seen that it had been even more tense here. I would also like to congratulate Mr Asmund Kristoffersen on his treatment of this substance. I think he has presented this in a tidy way, and he also has the ability to go something further and show the way in which this development should be in the alternative medical field. Alternative treatment is based on different actors and different treatment, and it is important that a person is able to distinguish between the serious and the unprofessional. I'm satisfied that the proposition has tried to balance this and obtain a security for the users. I am also pleased that the proposition provides for a number of measures that are not of a legal and legal nature, but are trying to strengthen the field and clean it up, among other things. by stressing the need for increased research in this area, and by providing an information bank that can provide better information to both health care and users, and to which it is possible to relate. There's, as I said, a need to clean up the business, because here's a conglomerate today. There are over 40 different sized practice organisations. A minority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Centre, would like the public to take the initiative in this context and to establish, in cooperation with the industry of the alternative workers, a main industry organisation such as an umbrella organisation, with which an umbrella organisation can then interact more and which could enable the public to obtain a better overview at the same time. Conceptual use has been discussed in the proposition and also in the committee. The centre party wishes to use the term ‘complementary and alternative treatment’. We believe that this option we are dealing with today is a supplement to school medicine, it is a complementary treatment, and therefore the term should contain it. At the same time, we have omitted the word ‘medicine’ and inserted the word ‘treatment’. We've done that to meet these different groups. Some people want to reserve the word ‘medicine’ for school medical treatments, and to be able to balance them and arrive at a concept that could be accepted by all parties, we wanted the term to be ‘complementary and alternative treatment’. In the case of training for authorised treatment and practitioners, the Centre Party, like the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, considers that the Ministry must take initiatives towards higher education in order to identify higher education plans in alternative forms of treatment, and then, in consultation with the organisations of alternative practitioners, evaluate how to ensure a good training offer. It is important that education is at the bottom before going to authorisation. We disagree a little about authorization as well. A minority request that an acupuncturist and homeopathist should be included in the investigation to be carried out with regard to osteopathy and naprapathy in terms of authorisation and educational qualification. Finally, a little about VAT. We believe that the majority is right when one tries to relieve the serious practitioners of this. In the proposition, there are, among other things, mentioned osteopathy, naprapathy, zoning, aromatherapy and nutrition therapy and herbal medicine as regards the question of exemption from VAT. We believe that this is right, and we also believe that, among other things, Zone therapy should be included in the assessment for authorisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e256	The next week is the 400th anniversary of public health in Norway. This marking reminds us of the many important crossroads in the history of healthcare that have brought us forward both in terms of treatment options, in terms of knowledge of causes of disease, and in terms of the development of a service provision for the population. I don't think I take my mouth too full when I say that Stortinget's treatment of Ot.prp. No 27 in many ways will represent, even in the past, an important milestone in the history of healthcare, both in the Norwegian context and in the Nordic context. When, on 13 December last year, the Government presented the Odelstingsproposition on alternative treatment, this was the first time a government in a Nordic country presented a proposal for a comprehensive policy in the field of alternative treatment. The fact that the Storting's treatment of this extensive proposition takes place exactly half a year after the presentation, I believe that the Stortinget considers it important that health authorities have an overall approach to the field, and that Norway should continue to be in the forefront of policy-making in the future. I am pleased and grateful that the Government has received the agreement of the Committee on all important points and the recognition expressed in this Chamber today. In recent years there has been a marked development in this area. The number of alternative processors has increased. The number of people who have tried alternative treatment is increasing. Several consider alternative treatment as an independent alternative or a supplement to the health care provided in the ordinary healthcare system. In the area of health care, the importance of setting up the ‘patient at the centre’ is highlighted. As the Government sees it, this implies that the patient must also have the freedom to choose treatment methods that have traditionally not been part of general public health services. While the patient’s desire for freedom of choice must be taken seriously, there are also examples of alternative treatment providers not being able to assess the scope of their own qualifications or services. The policy in this area must therefore also respect the patient's requirements for protection, such as: against risky treatment or unfair marketing and practices. Two main considerations have therefore been the basis for the proposals in the proposal. On the one hand, the patient's right to self-determination and freedom of choice, and on the other hand, the patient's need for protection. These considerations must be weighed against each other, and they can be combined far along the way. Where they are not fully combined, the Government has taken the view that the need not to expose patients to unnecessary risks should prevail. It is with great satisfaction that I note that the Committee has, as a matter of priority, joined the Government's approach to the field and proposals for policy-making. The measures proposed in the proposal must be seen as part of the Government’s efforts to improve understanding and recognition of alternative forms of treatment, and to facilitate a good interaction between general health care and alternative care providers, as well as to ensure consumer concerns, so that patients can be more able to make safe and effective choices about treatment. The proposals can basically be said to consist of three main elements: first, new legal regulation, second, the system of registers for alternative processors and third, technical development measures. Let me say a little bit about proposals for new legal regulation. The present legislative proposal involves a more modern and timely regulation of alternative treatment. The law is to replace the so-called quack salvage law of 1936, a law that many would claim for a long time has been to be regarded as old-fashioned and immature. As pointed out, different considerations need to be considered in this area. Although the legislative proposal provides for greater freedom of choice and self-determination for individuals, some restrictions on the right to seek treatment are nevertheless proposed. It is also proposed to regulate the access of alternative processors to the marketing of their activities. Supervision in this area will be followed up by more overall and active supervision by the Consumer Ombudsman. Such active supervision, I think, can contribute to the leakage of the most unprofessional practitioners and to the long-term improvement of consumer safety. As research or cooperation projects produce more knowledge, it may be necessary to assess the need for legislative changes. I will follow that, and in this respect, I consider this bill to be a ‘first-generation legislation’ in this field. Time will then be given to show whether the law provides the necessary framework for alternative treatment in the longer term or whether it is necessary to take further steps in the regulatory context. So a little bit about the register arrangement for alternative processors. The measures that can, in particular, help to achieve a distinction between serious and unprofessional operators are the proposal to establish a separate system of registers for alternative processors. A primary purpose of the system of registers is to contribute to the seriousness and professionalism of the individual’s professional activities, while ensuring that the system ensures consumer considerations. An overall social committee has joined the proposal for the establishment of a register system, and it is an important signal both to health authorities and to the practitioners’ organisations and their members that the register system must become a heavy contribution to achieving a distinction between the serious and the unprofessional in this field. The third element of the proposition consists of various professional development measures. I have noticed that the majority of the Social Committee has joined the Government's proposal to investigate specific forms of therapy and also asked for manual therapists to be investigated. Furthermore, I have noted the emphasis of an overall committee on the need for improved information activities, and the Committee's consideration of the need for increased research efforts. I can assure you that the National Research Centre for Complementary and Alternative Medicine in Tromsø – NAFKAM – will continue to play a central role in these areas. I believe that the time has come for a new and modern approach by public authorities towards alternative treatment providers. The time has come for school doctors to adopt a more humble attitude to what most people perceive as an important contribution to the care of their health needs. The time has come for alternative treatment providers to adopt a transparent and constructive approach to better functioning public health cooperation. I believe that the main key to better cooperation and gradually increasing the integration of alternative treatments into a public and general health service is to expand the area of documented effect. The platform for school medicine is a documented effect, and in my view, the platform for an interaction between alternative treatment and school medicine is the term ‘documented effect’. How is the documented effect extended? Indeed, it is expanded through research, cooperation projects and the development of relations. I believe that through this bill and the non-judicial measures we propose, we are contributing strongly to such an approach. It's not going to be easy. It's an unearthly landscape. It's an unobtrusive landscape. But I think with what we're doing here, we're contributing to greater order in this house, and it's going to be for the patients' best.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e292	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e296	As I mentioned in my post, this is a first and important step forward. Quality assurance of education and documentation is becoming more and more important, both because the population will increasingly demand it, and because the industry itself is growing. I therefore believe that it is important to assess the involvement of authorities in the development of a highly heterogeneous industry, which many people have experienced. My simple question to the Minister of Health is: What is the Minister of Health's assessment of being able to help the sector on the education side work harder against quality assurance of education in different therapies?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e303	The President will ask the representative Kristoffersen if he will take the opportunity to address the proposals on which the Workers' Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e306	That could be okay. I am addressing the proposals that the Workers' Party and the Centre have promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e311	The representative of Asmund Kristoffersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e314	I have noticed that the majority mark education as an important main step in ensuring a cleaner and better-quality industry. It's an assessment I share. I have also noticed that on several points the Committee, and partly the Committee, calls on the Ministry to assess how and to what extent educational institutions can teach in alternative forms of treatment, which elements should be included in the training, and the question of setting up a training council, to which the majority is in favour. I want to signal that I am fundamentally positive to these leaders, and agree that they will further strengthen the work of creating the basis for a cleaner landscape in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e323	As I said in my post, and as we have also mentioned in the comments, I expected that perhaps in this proposition, too, some groups of alternative processors were authorised where – as far as possible today – they have demonstrated an effect. I am thinking in particular of acupunctors, which we also have a suggestion in the setting. I know that the Minister of Health is occasionally in China. This problem area is well discussed in detail, and I have been given the impression that these discussions are positive, both by the Minister of Health and China. I want to know two things. One is, what is the reason why at this point you are not able to authorize acupunctors without a health professional background, which you know has an effect? However, evidence can be provided both from home and abroad, and from the World Health Organisation. The second is, when is the next crossroads for this matter to be raised?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e332	The background to the fact that we have not proposed authorisation for acupunctures in this round is that this group does not have a health care professional authorisation in any of the other Nordic countries. No training is given at publicly recognised education institutions, either in Norway or in the Nordic countries, leading to a professional title or a recognised degree. Although there is some evidence of treatment effect for acupuncture, it must be possible to claim that the effect of the treatments is documented in a relatively narrow area. However, I am very positive, as I have expressed both here in the country and in China, to the integration of acupuncture into the ordinary health care, where it is exercised by ordinary health professionals. I want to follow up on what I have said in the proposition to investigate the field of education with a view to creating the basis for a later authorisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e339	The Ministry has arranged for research in Tromsø under the direction of NAFKAM — a very exciting measure — where different alternative treatment providers and the possible results they may have to show. That's what I want to angle the question against, because that kind of research is beneficial to facilitate. But it can't be right to involve yourself at the same time as the groups you're studying, given the quality of their education or how they organize, if what you're trying to figure out is whether they're serious or not. I understand that the Workers' Party here wants to go beyond what the majority does in relation to having to guarantee quality, something that you really don't know about represents a quality at all. My question to the Minister of Health is: does he see that it is important in the first place to have a neutral approach, just to find out whether you are dealing with serious or unprofessional actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e348	If I understood the question to the representative Ballo correctly, I am of the clear opinion that documenting effect is an independent task, and a task that, of course, in research requires the necessary scientific integrity. It is a task that is fundamentally different from what will go on assessing, and, where appropriate, developing, the quality of training provision that would lead to a type of alternative treatment role. This is actually how I see the Workers' Party's comments, and I don't necessarily see any contradiction in that, but I agree that there are two different problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e355	The Minister for Health stated that — as is also stated in the proposal — control of exercise and, among other things, control of the use of drugs. marketing shall be carried out by the Consumer Council. We haven't taken this into account in the setting, but I imagine a development with regard to complementary and alternative medicine where maybe supervisory and control authorities should be more health authorities. Does the Minister of Health need the Health Authority to enter this field, in order to draw additional and alternative treatment more professionally into the health system, thus strengthening the serious and comprehensive part of this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e362	The answer to the question put by the representative, Mr Glötvold, is no at this stage. The reason for this is that this bill does not have the ambition that the public should place a stamp of approval on alternative practitioners on the basis of some health professional judgement. We believe that there is no basis and possibility for today. I will not rule out that it may happen once in the future, but what is the purpose of the law is among other things. ensuring consumer considerations, fairness, cleanliness and quality. I believe that there is a clear link between that and the register system, that in fact, consumer bodies are monitoring these objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e370	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 791]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e386	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e397	Odelstingen currently has the law on changes in the law on popular protection and in some other laws, and it deals with the introduction of a system of temporary unpaid pay. This case is a follow-up to the Sandman Committee's position, cf. Now 2000: No. 27, which was released on 15 September 2000. Ot. pp. No 102 for 2001-2002, which is the case we are dealing with today, contains essentially the following proposals for changes. A system of permanent unpaid pay and temporary unpaid pay will be put in place. Reassessment of the income limit of the grade of default. For permanent disability pensioners, it is changed from 1 G to a tolerance of 0,1 G. The rule that the disability assessment of part-time workers should also take into account the ability to carry out work at home. The determination of the impregnation shall be made at 5 pst. intervals. There has been a very strong increase in the number of disability pensioners since the early 1990s and until today. At the end of 2001, there were more than 285,000 disability pensioners in Norway, and this actually represents more than 10pst. of the population aged between 18 and 67. This is a development that cannot continue, and it is important in this context to look at both how to reactivate already disabled people, through better organisation of jobs and social welfare schemes, and how to ensure that fewer people become permanent disability pensioners. A programme under the auspices of the Riksstrøgdeverket shows that there are many who are willing and able to try again in the workplace after a few years, as a result of a change in their health status, or that they have undergone a re-schooling or have received better organisation of work. While there is a unanimous committee to support the introduction of a system of temporary untiedness, the Committee has some differing views on the instruments to be used in addition to the change in systems themselves. In this regard, I am absolutely sure that the individual parties themselves want to express their own views and positions on this matter, so I will now mainly take note of some of the changes in relation to the Government's proposal in the proposition, which it has been important for the Progress Party to change. The proposal proposes that the possibility of having a single basic income should be changed, so that one would instead impose a tolerance of 0,1 G. This could not be accepted by the Progress Party, as a certain amount of income is what makes it possible for too many people to improve their pre-tensioned economy, and that in this way they are still able to maintain a certain link with the world of work, but on the basis of what the individual is able to do at any time. The Progress Party is pleased that we have been able to make this happen, so that we still have the opportunity to have a 1-g-free income. The Government also proposes in the proposal that the level of compensation for the loss of income should be set at 60 pst. the income, while the same degree of compensation for rehabilitation and rehabilitation is set at 66 pst. The Progress Party will demonstrate that the purpose of introducing a temporary disability benefit scheme is to bring more people back to work through different measures, rather than making one permanently disabled. It is then also natural to compare with the rehabilitation and rehabilitation system also in terms of the level of compensation. It is therefore gratifying that the Progress Party has been heard for this, and that the level of compensation is now set at 66 pst. of the income. Another and very dubious proposal by the Government is to remove the possibility of a special deduction for those with temporary unpaid pay. This is a problem which it is not natural to address in this case, as the entire tax regime for all groups of society will be carefully assessed in connection with the fact that the Committee of the Regions' attitude on the tax regime is to be addressed here in the house. It has therefore been entirely unthinkable for the Progress Party to separate this group of persons who become disabled for a limited period of time, and let them come out very badly financially as a result of the loss of this special deduction. This has now been corrected again by the majority, so that those who come under the temporary unpaid pay scheme will retain the right to special deductions. There are differing views within the Committee on which, and where appropriate, some changes are to be made in terms of instruments to reduce the growth of new unemployees or to ensure that as many as possible of those who have the opportunity to do so are able to return to work. It has been argued – and rightly so – that many of the proposed changes that have been made to the disability pension scheme have, in part, a very unsocial and, in the opinion of the Progress Party, a poor profile. It is not to be overlooked that if the Government's proposal for decisions promoted in this proposition had been adopted, this could have caused a number of people to have had some major financial problems. Although the very conversion to a two-part system is positive and is being approved today, I must also say that the Progress Party is very pleased that we have made some changes, as we have made clear. Here I would like to refer to the following, which is previously also referred to: Those who become disabled must continue – as I said – to be able to earn 1 G, and a tolerance of 0,1 G should not be imposed. The special deduction is maintained, and the level of compensation is set at 66 pst. of employee income and not 60 pst., as proposed in the proposal. It will probably be claimed from more people, including The Workers' Party, that the changes for which it now becomes a majority, could create more poor people or that many people would be badly affected. This would be the case if one had not received the changes that the Progress Party has now made. There are now only minor amendments proposed in relation to the financial instruments themselves, including the fact that those who come under the system of temporary unpaid pay receive the same arrangements as those within the system of rehabilitation or rehabilitation. Another issue that needs to be addressed through this system conversion is the one that has arisen in relation to the concept of ‘temporary unpaid pay’ as opposed to that of the insurance scheme. The Committee therefore points out that this is something that needs to be resolved in discussions between the Ministry and the financial industry. I have received many enquiries in this case, and then primarily related to whether persons who are already disability pensioners will be affected by this conversion. In this context, there is reason to point out that the scheme is to apply to new cases and thus does not have any particular effect on the already disabled group.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower.ana.ud1154e439	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately at hand. The president proposed that the meeting should now be suspended and set again at 5 p.m. 18 for continued treatment of the current map. – It is considered biphasic.
