ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e29	The Sem declaration is the basis for the policy and work of the Cooperative Government. In the field of transport, the Sem Declaration stated: ‘It is necessary to obtain more for the resources made available for transport purposes. It requires the continuous use of tenders for public purchases of goods and services in the transport sector, whether infrastructure or transport services.» We're halfway in the period. It is therefore time to take stock of what has been done in this sector. The government has achieved a great deal! ‘Revolution’ is not a word that sounds so good to me, but the revolution that has taken place in the transport sector in recent years is very joyful. So what's the government going through? Well, the Post is converted to AS and has got the same framework conditions as its competitors. It has become easier to start new express bus routes. Many new routes have started and passenger numbers are increasing sharply. From 2001 to 2002, passenger numbers increased by 18 pst. So far, there's an increase of 16 pst. In the railway area, an improvement in efficiency has been made by transforming the NSB into AS. Purchases of passenger transport services by train by country shall be subject to tenders. The first contracts will be published next year. In order to prepare the ground for competition and establish an alternative railway environment in Norway, the Flytrain is separated from the NSB and is now a stand-alone company. The opening-up of national roadways is under way. It will provide a basis for better ferry services, with better capacity and better frequency. There has also been a major change in aviation policy. The passenger fee has been removed. That'll give you a fee bill of over $1 billion for aviation. This, together with the fragmentation of the offer for state service awards and the prohibition of award credits on domestic routes, has helped to strengthen competition in aviation. And the result won't be waiting. Since the government joined, air prices have fallen by 13 p.m., while when Stoltenberg was prime minister, air prices increased by 22 p.m.. The air carrier has been transformed into a limited liability company Avinor in order to become more cost-effective. A great deal has also happened in the road sector. There has been a reduction in the number of state road offices, from 19 to 5. The number of bureaucrats shall be reduced, from 5000 to 4000. We're moving resources from typewriter to excavator. The production activity in the State Road Service has been separated and converted to Mesta AS. As from 1 January, all new buildings and asphalt contracts have been tendered. On the operational and maintenance side, the country is divided into four bidding zones over a four-year period. The first round of tenders has now been completed, and the results are alarming. The total of the contracts has fallen by 25 pst.Oh, my God! It's going to make savings of $480 million. kr during a four-year period. This shows that the switchovers and the use of tenders produce considerable results. The resources saved shall be used to increase the investment budget for the road. The government's implementation of structural measures in its first two years is no less than impressive. We should replace the name «Cooperation Administration» with «Action Management». And I would like to pay tribute to the Progress Party for ensuring the majority of these structural changes. Their support has been crucial, all the time the left-hand side is most busy logging for LO. The government has demonstrated with its action that it is possible to carry out major structural reforms and through it release resources and get more money back. The revolution in transport must continue! It is therefore important for the Government to have its seat in order to complete the transitions in the field of transport and other important areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e60	I've heard that in the context of the throne debate, you should talk a little bit about the state of the kingdom. And I'm going to talk about three things that concern me about the state of the kingdom. The first is that we are making important social tools more and more subject to what we call business economic thinking. More and more of the tasks I think are social tools, we are removing from a social approach. I was back for a while and was going to help someone get the mail – newspapers, letters and such – three times a week. They were happy to have it three times a week. But the post office had decided that it could not be continued, because it was not profitable. Then I asked the postman – or the postmaster or what he was called: Who has said that the post office should be profitable? So is it that we're going to stop delivering mail to people up there because it's not profitable? It's the kind of approach we get in more and more areas of Norwegian society, and it's an approach that worries me very, very much. I actually think that people want security, they want predictability, on some fundamental services. Let me mention: water, electricity, school, health. People don't want you to get old and be exposed to markets and economics in these areas. I was part of a debate programme called 'Right on' for approx. Six months ago, after we had the big power crisis, and all the intruders – there were about ten pieces – agreed that in terms of electricity, they wanted far more political governance, much more social convergence of that social tool, and that the market had to end freeing itself with their electricity bills. The same thing I think applies in areas like water, school, hospitals, etc. That's why I think this is an area where we're going into the wrong track, and we have to think about: do we really want to continue in that track? Another area where I think we are on the wrong track: More and more of the societal tasks are being decoupled from political governance – postal, telecommunications, railway, yes, even hospitals have been converted into a limited liability company or so-called companies. That means decoupling politicians from decision-making. The danger of this – and I have seen it clearly in this house in a few years – is that the Storting will become more meaningful and not a decision-making body. We have opinions about many things. It can have one in the Polytechnic Association and the like. In the Storting, we're going to decide things. But we're about to give up so much power that we're a meaningful body and not a deciding body. The adverse effects of this depoliticisation and of this business-economic approach are noted first in the districts, because there it is so marginal and so vulnerable. This bit of bit thinking becomes very visible when the Post is allowed to go in and define that it is not profitable to deliver mail three times a week, now we get to work at once a week, when Telenor finds out that it is not profitable to have broadband in this town, or when the NRK says they are not expanding NRK2 there, because it is not profitable, etc. So when you get a bit for bit-thinking that's business-economically thought, you have to lose in a number of places in Norway. We can't sit and watch this development. In any case, SV will not sit and watch Norway slip slowly towards Oslofjord, and that we depopulate large parts of our country. Let me conclude: there is often talk of a new course, both from one side and from the other. I actually want a new course where profitability for important social tasks is not the same as money. Wages and salaries do not have to be measured in money all the time, because in terms of profitability for social tasks such as health, water, electricity and education, there are so many, many other criteria that have to be taken into account than economics. And then I want this room to be as much as possible a body that decides what is going to happen in Norway, and not a body that believes so much about what is going to happen in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e77	Without work Norway stops. No work also stops the everyday life of those who are without a job. The economy is failing, opportunities for expansion are being reduced, and social contacts are disappearing. The fight against unemployment must and will therefore be the Government’s priority number one. The challenge is much bigger than many imagine. Today we have fewer than 100 000 registered unemployed in Norway. But if we take with us all those who are in rehabilitation or in vocational rehabilitation, all those who are unqualified or pre-retired despite both being able and willing to work, all the disabled who are not allowed to do so, all the immigrants who are isolated from the labour market because of language and culture, and all the part-time workers who work less than they themselves want, then the real number of involuntary unemployed in Norway is hundreds of thousands. This is all about the fight against unemployment. There are at least three main reasons why so many do not get into the Norwegian labour market. Lack of jobs – most people talk about it – is one reason. This is a serious problem, but fortunately it is a passing phenomenon. In the long run, the problem in Norway is lack of people, not lack of jobs. Fortunately, there are also signs that the labour market situation may be turning around, not least thanks to the firm economic policy pursued by the Government since its accession. Independent experts expect increased demand for labour and lower general unemployment beyond 2004, and already report increased availability of job vacancies. I am afraid that we need to be prepared for further increase in registered unemployment beyond the fall, but there is hope that the market will turn to next year, at least if we continue a responsible economic policy. More jobs are not enough. Many are not allowed to do so, even in good times, because employers are reluctant to hire young people, inexperienced people or others with weak links to the labour market. Disabled persons and immigrants have problems due to attitudes and occasional costs of organisation. Many young people are not given the chance because the legislation and regulations make it risky for employers to hire inexperienced people. Many senior workers fall outside for a similar reason — apart from the government, paradoxically, many places experience risky bets on people who are a little up in the years. All of these examples indicate that we have a serious insider-outside problem in Norwegian working life. Culture, laws and regulations are designed to provide security for the insiders – for those who are so lucky to be in a regular job. But what creates security for those who are at work, unfortunately, often makes it harder for those who are out of work and without experience to get away with it. The struggle to give the outsiders an opportunity is a central part of the government's fight against unemployment. We have recently proposed stronger protection against discrimination in the labour market. During the autumn, we will present a plan of measures for the recruitment of several disabled people to the public. In a short time, we will appoint a sample to look at the problem of involuntary part-time, and we will propose to the Stortinget a decoration of the provisions of the work environment legislation that act as a barrier to the employment of people with a weak background in working life. Jens Stoltenberg said earlier today that he was concerned that unemployment should not get caught. I fully agree with that. The most important thing we can do to avoid this is to ensure that jobseekers are so close to the labour market that they can get the jobs as they come. Unfortunately, it has been all too often for the authorities, in the best sense, to park people on labour market measures. Recent research, both from Norway and from other countries, shows that they are doing a service for the bear. Even in times of weak labour market there are over half a million job vacancies in this country during the year. This is why the Government attaches such importance to keeping jobseekers close to the labour market and prioritises jobs clubs and guidance rather than long-term labour market measures. That's a line that we want to stick to. People other than ordinary job seekers also need to be helped faster. The situation is particularly serious for people who are affected by illness or injury which means that they cannot continue in their old job. Today, it takes so long – it takes two years or more – before one is judged for vocational rehabilitation, that many will be permanently neglected simply by waiting. The government will therefore propose concrete measures in the budget to reduce this waiting time, thereby also helping this group of unemployed to return to the labour market more quickly. The government's fight against unemployment is a three-way battle – for more jobs, for better opportunities for those who are out-siders today, and for all those who have been parked by society on the sidelines. We hope, for the sake of the unemployed, to have the Storting with us on all three fronts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e103	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e106	I am pleased that the Government and the Council of State have as their primary goal the fight against unemployment. This should have been the government's main goal two years ago, from the first day of. Work creates well-being, and work prevents poverty. So today, 110 000 people are registered unemployed and parked outside the ordinary working life, and youth unemployment is increasing most. The government has far too much focus on interest rates and interest rates. It shows today's debate. Several other measures are also important to ensure that unemployment does not remain at a high level. I can mention several measures that the Labour Party believes are very important: the Youth Guarantee for young people under the age of 25 and, not least, the offensive commitment to research and nutrition. Has the government still believed that only the market forces are to be remedied, or will the Council of State now be able to signal concrete actions presented in the government budget for the next year, which will remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e115	The government has been working to ensure a lasting high level of employment as a target from the first day of its accession, and it has pursued a consistent economic policy to provide the basis for this. I remember very well that the current head of the Workers' Party, then Minister of Finance Jens Stoltenberg, who is an exceptionally capable economist, when he was Minister of Finance, said that he was Keynesian. So am I. The basic principle of Keynesian learning is that jobs are created through a good general economic policy; they are not created through selective measures. That's the line the government has held on to next to the accession, that's the line we're going to follow in the draft budget that's to be presented this week, and that's the only way we're creating lasting and good jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e122	It is not difficult to agree with Norman when he outlines all the opportunities available to Norwegian workers and the potential of those people who fall outside the Norwegian labour force. There are an incredible number of annual works here that can be picked up. What I'm wondering about is what order the Government and the Council of State are concentrating on to extract these annual works, because at the same time, this government wants to open up labour immigration even outside the EEA territory – unskilled. But I'm not going to pursue it further. I would like to challenge the Council of State in another area, which the Council of State was not in. It is clear that this government also buys people out of the labour market through, among other things. AFP scheme, remuneration for government employees and limitation of mobility and flexibility among Norwegian workers. Does the Government want to concentrate on these areas, in order also to seek more labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e131	I am very pleased that the representative Sandberg gives me the opportunity to say a little about that particular question. It is clear that the labour reserve of dispersing people today too early is being pushed out of work, partly against their wishes, is a labour reserve that we need in Norway. Much of it is related to the entire pension system, which we know comes up as a matter of its own in the wake of the Pension Commission's position. I'm not going to comment on this right now, but there are other things we can do in the short term. Sandberg mentioned post-paid or waiting pay for government employees. There we have already done something, by placing the full cost of the use of waiting wages with those units that actually encounter people on early retirement or on waiting pay. It has, as we know especially from the Post, already had a very positive effect on getting businesses or businesses to hesitate to push people out. And I think we need more of that kind of action. But at the same time, I am afraid that the real mobilisation of the labour reserve in older workers is not achieved until we have a reform of the pension system in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e140	The growing unemployment rate is the biggest problem we have today. We share that view with the Government. But so far, the government's policy has actually resulted in – as the Council of State said – hundreds of thousands of unemployed. The Council of State also warns that this will increase. He also says that it's going to take a long time before it gets better. We see that there is now a shortage of jobs and that the time off is breaking down. So the Council of State says it's wrong – in that case – to have people on action. He calls it parking people. Is it wrong, then, what the Council of State has presented for two years in its own budget, where he indicates that people who go on action will be able to get to work more easily – there is an increase of almost 15 pst. – or better education if they are involved? Is the information provided to the Stortinget by the Council of State that action actually works wrong? And when the Council of State says that it will take over a year before it will get better, isn't it better for people to gain skills and retain their skills than to leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e147	I must first be allowed to arrest what the representative Karin Andersen says in his introduction. I have not said and have not thought that the government has created hundreds of thousands of unemployed persons. On the other hand, it has policies such as: As regards unemployment in the 1990s, we have contributed to many hundreds of thousands of unemployed today. We then got a massive outburst of people from the workforce, because it was an easy way to give the impression that the actual unemployment was low. So we pay for sins from the 1990s when today we have much more than a hundred thousand real unemployed in Norway. So to the question of action. Clearly, we need labour market measures, and there are no questions of going into one ditch or other ditch, but the question is what kind of action we are going to take and what is the main approach. All the experience from Norway in the 1990s and from other countries is that measures designed not to get the jobseeker to be close to the labour market contribute to exclusion rather than job creation. This is why the composition of interventions is important, and it is therefore important that the main effort is directed towards guidance, job clubs and job search activities that will help some of the hundreds of thousands who are currently available, actually have the opportunity to get one of the five hundred thousand jobs that will become available in Norway during the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e155	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e158	The work to reduce the vulnerability of society and to strengthen civil society’s preparedness for crisis will continue,’ states the Common Era. We are developing a more open world society with more complex technological systems, depending on electronic information and communication systems, closely linked food production and delivery systems, traffic systems with increased traffic density and higher speeds, and business life in an ever faster transition. All of this is creating new and faster changing vulnerability conditions. Furthermore, the more open world economy and changes in the political landscape have led to a significant change in the threat profile of criminal acts. Social security work shall ensure a systematic identification of threats to and vulnerabilities in society. Preventive measures are important to prevent adverse events and to address the vulnerability that is unacceptable. Nearly one year ago, the Stortinget addressed the Communication ‘Society security. The path to a less vulnerable society». It showed how extensive this work is and how many must be involved. The work on social security is comprehensive and will be strengthened at central, regional and local level. The management apparatus of society must be prepared at all times to deal with crises. On 1 September this year, the new Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, DSB, was established. The Directorate works to integrate social security and preparedness into ordinary planning and management systems in departments and municipalities. In line with this, the Directorate develops working methods and guidance materials to ensure an overall preparedness process, ensuring quality and development of social security at central, regional and local level. The Ministry of Justice shall have responsibility for coordination in civil protection matters. On the basis of the principle of responsibility – that the person responsible for a normal situation also has a responsibility in the event of exceptional events – it is important that social security work has a clear priority within a specific and structured framework. The Christian People's Party believes that awareness is needed, and if the process is to function as a whole, it is also important to clear command lines and clear responsibilities. In addition, the common use of concepts and common content of the concepts is a prerequisite for good interaction. It is equally important that politicians make public security work visible in the departments, in the committees here at Stortinget and around the county and municipalities. It's about recognizing and making visible. Uncovering vulnerability, initiating prevention measures, and having plans to clear and think through all the unmistakable things that can happen, as well as carrying out exercises provide security and better results when something happens. We are constantly reminded of the vulnerability of society. The terrorist attacks against the United States on 11 September 2001 showed how vulnerable the open modern society is and that society must be able to face a wide range of threats in addition to the pure military. The lack and unforeseeability of today’s threat picture poses a number of societal sectors with significant safety challenges. This applies in particular to critical infrastructure such as telecommunications and power supply, but also to the transport sector and the petroleum sector, as well as to health and food supply. It has, for example, four major power outages during August and September of this year: failure of the delivery system in the United States and Canada for an hour of power failure during rush time in London and Kentuvær and system failure in Sweden and Denmark and later in Switzerland and France, leading to power failure in Italy These power cuts underline that a high-tech society must constantly prepare itself for the occasional failure and failure of important social services. To meet this vulnerability, it is important that all businesses and households think through their own preparedness and what can be done in advance to reduce the level of injury. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to draw up and incorporate lessons from incidents, although there are significant differences in the structure of these countries. In power disruption situations, experience shows that warning, forecasting, coordination, public information are the main management functions to provide for the public. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important to see new opportunities for cooperation between military and civil within the framework of a comprehensive concept of social security and vulnerability – both in order to solve joint tasks, to identify opportunities for interaction on common or equal challenges and to make important points of contact visible. The focus must be on competence, quality and good use of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e210	Since Bondevik took over the government, unemployment in Norway has increased by over 50 pst. In the last month, 1 400 new jobs have been put in the queue among the unemployed. 110 000, and after what the Minister of Labour says, there are even more in the vicinity. Unemployment increases in all countries, in all industries and in all age groups. In the age group under 25, unemployment has increased by 27 pst. in the last year, and more and more people are moving straight from higher education to unemployment. Worst thing, though, is in the industry. Over the last year, 10 pst. of our industrial workplaces gone. A stronger decline in our industry I think we should look very long to find in a year. Dramatically, I think I'm too mild a word to describe the situation we're experiencing today in Norwegian industry. Last year we set a new Norwegian record in the number of bankruptcies. Nevertheless, the number of bankruptcies up to now is in the year 18 p.m. higher than it did last year at this time. The only thing that seems to go down is the number of new establishments. In the middle of this situation, we have a government that is so much more satisfied with the situation and that today the unhindered have boasted that their policy is working. Then I have to say that it is possible that the government's policy in this area works, but in that case this government has a completely different objective than that of the Labour Party. For us in the Working Party, it has always been a goal to create work for everyone. Therefore, we also warn when we saw how the situation in the labour market developed. We also put forward concrete proposals that would have contributed to the fact that fewer today would have been available if they had been adopted here in the Chamber. The government party's effort was to ridicule us and call us darkers. Last year, both the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Finance, and not least the Minister of Labour, rejected the fact that growing unemployment would be a problem. One was more concerned about the lack of access to labour at that time. But unfortunately, we got it right. Several today have praised the small businesses and the need to create more of them. Of course, I agree, but the government has made it harder to create the new jobs. Through drastic cuts in nutrition and district policy, many of the tools that would create the new workplaces have been removed. The SND cut is actually cut in the number of new establishments, which is also reflected in the statistics, and the feedback from business clearly shows that one of the biggest obstacles to creating new jobs, to seeing the good ideas in life, is the lack of capital. Of course, I share the desire for more small businesses, but we must not forget that almost all the small businesses live by the big ones. Therefore, I will warn against the artificial distinction as individual laws between small and large enterprises. Because if we don't facilitate our large groups, for industrial locomotives, it will also remove a lot of the small companies, and not least it will be a big problem for many of our communities. One of the most important groups we have in Norway is Norsk Hydro. This is a very important enterprise for Norway, and not least it is important for many communities. Several of these communities are now awaiting important decisions, decisions that can determine the future of these communities. The signal from Norsk Hydro so far is that the necessary investments will not come. If this is going to be the end result, it'll be e.g. the disappearance of 1 000 industrial workplaces in Sogn alone in a few years. Even though I'm concerned about the Norwegian Hydro signal, I'm even more concerned about the silence with which these signals have been met from the media, and not least from the Government. It doesn't seem like the government is remarkably concerned, total passivity is probably the best word to describe the effort that has been made by the Government in this area. A letter has, of course, been sent with some questions from the Minister of Industry of Norsk Hydro, but no initiative has been taken to obtain a positive decision from Norsk Hydro. Missing framework conditions shall be the reason why Norsk Hydro will not invest. This should be a paradox for a government that boasts of what they've been given. But I'm also surprised that Norsk Hydro has not even more concretely specified these missing framework conditions, and has not more of a struggle to improve these framework conditions. We in the Labour Party are at least ready to take that fight. The fight is about gaining more power, and it is about having the same environmental conditions as the countries with which we compete.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e225	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e228	It is really very difficult this time, too, to find out what the Workers' Party really wants to change in the current industrial policy, other than to repeat its form of dissatisfaction, and the dissatisfaction has indeed good conditions in Norway at these times. There is also an opportunity to respond to the tax reductions that have been made. If we wave into the Akselsens own home state, Hordaland, we see that taxpayers and businesses are now left with 1 billion in tax reliefs compared to what would have been the Akselsens alternative policy. Does Aksensen believe that there would have been more jobs created in his home country, that there would have been more investment in jobs, in innovation, in research, in the development of his own home state, if not the business and taxpayers had been left with this billion that is so isolated from the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e235	Now it might not be so precise what the opposition is saying about the government's industrial policy. What is more careful is how businesses react to this business policy. That's the result of every day, through cancellations, layoffs, flaggings and closures. When Norwegian Hydro says they won't invest in Norway, they say that because there are no framework conditions. Then I think that there should be a basis for showing greater humility on the part of the Government and greater concern over the situation that actually affects at least 110 000 individuals and a very large number of communities today. The government's theory is that if you give tax credits, these money will come back to business by making and investing their benevolent owners. The truth is that after this tax haven't been granted, the investment has fallen, and never before has it been more difficult to obtain available willing capital than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e240	The head of the Economic and Social Committee was concerned with unemployment and the phasing-out of industrial activities in Norway — and rightly so. We are soon on the jumbo site throughout Western Europe. Our Prime Minister was previously also concerned about unemployment and that job no. 1 would be to simplify it. But he saw some projections in the horizon and mentioned this at lower interest rates and interest rates. But what are the actual ratios? The recent statistics from Aetat show that we are still losing jobs, especially in the industrial field. Part of the process is irreversible when enterprises are phased out, brought down and moved abroad. It's known to everyone who's been involved in the problem. There has been hardly any industrial activity in Norway in international format in the last 20 years. That's what's the truth. I would like to draw attention to the proposals No. 2 and 3 by the Progress Party, proposals on active industrial policy. I would like to ask the chairman of the committee how the Workers' Party will deal with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e249	I found it very positive that the Progress Party, at least apparently, has begun to be concerned about the situation on the labour market and for Norwegian business. Nevertheless, I would argue that if it were the Progress Party's policy that was pursued in this Chamber, unemployment would probably have been at least twice as large as today. It's just that you have to have control of the basics of the economy, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on. Everyone knows that this is where the Progress Party has not had anything to contribute so far. The progress party is very skilled when it comes to being the best in all areas. But for me, politics is kind of like a puzzle. It doesn't help to have the finest puzzle bets if these bets don't match. I am very pleased that no one has yet tried to piece together the game that the Progress Party has put together.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e256	SV agrees with the Labour Party that we want a much more active state enterprise policy. I just want to sign that out. But then the representative told Aksens that he wanted more power. Yeah, maybe there's a little bit more power needed. But the force the Workers' Party and the Axis want is a force that, at the same time, causes significant damage to the environment, either in the form of new hydroelectric power plants or in the form of gas power stations that generate significant emissions. When Akselsen was Minister of Oil and Energy, there was also a great deal of modesty when it came to investing in alternative energy sources. Appropriations for bioenergy, wind power and an increase in the State budget were appropriations that almost did not appear. I would like to ask Akselsen the following question: If the Workers' Party comes into government again, do you not see the possibility of moving from mouse steps to elephant steps in alternative energy, as Sweden has done in the case of bioenergy, as Denmark has done in the case of wind power, and where other countries have also been very good?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e265	I have a little bit of a problem getting to know myself in this reality description, because it's actually done a lot to use new renewable energy sources. The working party supports the ambitions of the previous Bondevik government in this area. I don't have any particular problem saying that I think they stretched as far as possible. But even if all the measures had been implemented in one year, we would still be dependent on importing power from abroad. What's my problem is that we can't see this in an international context. Until now this year Danish coal power plants, because it has rained less in Norway, have produced 30 pst. more than they otherwise do. I mean that if we use our own natural resources, for example. The gas, can contribute to the Norwegian industry getting viable conditions in Norway, if we use our own natural resource and at the same time contribute to the decommissioning of Danish coal power plants and thus help halve emissions in the Nordic region, I thought that we should do so, not least in the interest of the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e272	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e276	Business and business conditions are very central to the government's policy. More and more people are still seeing that the policy pursued and supported by the Government in the Storting has been strongly involved in improvements in terms of both interest and crown rates, and that we have implemented tax relief and tax relief – all of this of great importance. When I'm out in companies, and I'm pretty often, there's one thing in addition to these moments that's still being highlighted as the most important element in getting a positive development, and that's transportation. It is the debt of central banks, the debt of the districts, that of small businesses and large enterprises. It's about saving time, it's about saving costs, and it also benefits families and individuals that a person is able to shrink distances and get a better relationship with Norway. For this reason, the Cooperative Government also has a leverage effect on the transport sector. In addition to increased licenses and lower fees, we are in the middle of what I think is right to call a revolution in the area of transportation. We don't just want to spend more money, we want more for the money we spend, and we already see very positive results from some of the measures we've implemented. I believe that very few doubt that the new aviation policy for which the Cooperative Government has received a majority has given rise to stronger competition. He has provided a better supply for business and private people and, as has been said before, given a lower price level. Equally in the road sector: We have been exposed to competition by the State Road Service, and only on the operating and maintenance side points the signal as far as savings of 500 million. kr per year, money to be used for investments and for even better operation and maintenance. In this area, too, the Government is working on its policy. But the results have not come without a fight, and I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to give credit to the Progress Party, which has helped to obtain multiple numbers for the important structural measures that we have implemented in the transport sector. On the other hand – from the Workers' Party and SV – we have largely encountered resistance and dark predictions about how this would work. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have systematically fought against it. They have fought against the new aviation policy, they have fought against the competition in the road sector that we are now beginning to see the results of, and they have fought against letting go of what may be the greatest success in the public transport sector in recent years, the express buses, which have given many a very good offer, almost without state subsidies, without state support. Instead of discussing whether it's right – because I think most people realize – what we've done, there's reason to ask: how much have we lost by not doing this too many, many years ago? Those who are included in the newspapers are looking up today, which says a little about how much this means in dollars. In the government party, we're very impatient to continue the revolution we've now seen and got multiples for. In the future, we will be occupied with several things, including: of the ferry sector, on which we are in the process of gaining competition and hence a better supply. The railway sector is over-mature when it comes to getting something of the same thing going on in the road sector, simply to give customers a better supply for the huge amount of dollars we spend on this sector. I hope that, in the future, we will receive broad support to pursue that reform policy, in the interests of the many of us who are dependent on a good supply of the transport sector in central and northern Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e295	«The Government will continue to step up assistance to the world's poorest», and «The Government will actively participate in the World Trade Organisation to promote a fairer trading system». These sentences are taken from the Common Era and relate to key issues of Norwegian aid and trade policy. This government is very offensive in terms of aid, and the government's goals in terms of the world's poor are sky-high. The Government shall be commended for this. But – and it’s a big but – the government has not taken on board the fact that aid from one state to another does not promote development, but rather stagnation. Assistance to create client countries needs to be phased out, and the role of the recipient countries needs to be upgraded. They must be our partners in the international arena, not the rich world's clients. My criticism of aid is not directed directly at the poor population, nor at the help provided by non-governmental organisations. The second sentence was about promoting a fairer trading system through the WTO, an important work that could lead to far better prosperity than we can in terms of assistance. If we are able to bring developing countries together as partners in the world economy, we have given them an independent basis for growth and development. I am pleased with the government's goal. However, if it is to be followed, the practical policy of the Government in this area needs to be changed. It is not useful to talk loudly about how important it is that developing countries get good conditions, without showing a willingness to do anything about it. We have just tried to move forward in the WTO Doha Round, a round called the Development Round. The negotiations collapsed, and it was because the rich world had not realized that the world has changed. It is no longer useful for the EU, the United States and Japan, and to a lesser extent Norway, to believe that three solutions can be found downwards in poorer countries. Developing countries will be consulted and included. Let us act on the Norwegian side as if we have heard the developing countries, and let us respect their demands. I don't think anyone could believe we did that in the last round of negotiations. Instead, we acted with, for example, Japan, Switzerland and Iceland in some desperate attempt to convince the world that there was a real sin on our farmers, and that they had to be protected. There is talk of promoting a fairer trading system, but if it is to reflect our policy, the text should be something like this: the government will work so that Norwegian agriculture can continue without change. It would have been honest. As far as the environment is concerned, the Government has no problems with being world champions and precursors, even in areas where, in the opinion of the Progress Party, it has no significance, but is directly harmful to our industry. Why not be a trading precursor, where we can really make an effort? But there we are well pleased to have the aforementioned grievances, such as the EU, Japan and the United States, premise, and then put ourselves in line with them by showing reluctance to real changes in favour of development. Why can't Norway go ahead and say that we should take the developing countries seriously, that we should admit that the protectionism and attitudes of the Western world are not a way forward? Some like to present what is happening in the WTO and in some other international organisations, as a struggle between rich and poor countries. Unfortunately, Norway reinforces this impression. In Norway, as in the rest of the world, there is a need for economic growth. The world needs more trade and openness, not less. The needs of developing countries are mentioned, but Norwegian jobs, for example, are also mentioned. the fisheries sector, shipping, engineering and other industries need a policy to provide opportunities and access to markets. That is why it is important that the WTO negotiations succeed. Should that happen, someone has to go ahead and show willingness to solutions. In this way, it is necessary to draw attention to the need to modernise agriculture to accommodate other Norwegian jobs, not least for Norwegian consumers. Strong struggle for the cause of developing countries in the WTO is not contrary to Norwegian interests, on the contrary, the interests of developing countries are our interests, their demands should become our demands. I started by criticising the government's aid policy, and I have ended by criticising trade policy, but I recognise that the government has good goals. Then it's only about translating these goals into a sensible policy that works. It needs the world's poor, and it needs all Norwegian workers and all the unemployed who go and hope for better times for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e316	The Trontal gives us a picture of a good country and a good government. Life seems to be tolerably easy, the challenges are affordable. According to the Prime Minister, the Government has done its job, now it is up to the Storting to follow up. But why are we skeptical anyway? We have great expectations about the policy that a government is going to be designing at all times, and I have great expectations about what it will be like to grow up in this country. For me, therefore, the self-satisfaction of the Government seems to be far greater than the self-confidence of the work done, and the plans they have to solve the central challenges facing the country. The Prime Minister is right that in a society with major changes, changes are required to bear the mark of value anchoring and renewal. The Prime Minister has to bear to be asked what values are behind the 30 billion tax bill for those who already have the most. The government has wanted to give the impression of being a party with the weakest in our society. Today we become aware that the Government is halving the supervision of our child protection institutions. This is about providing security to the weakest of our children. Then it doesn't help if we never have such nice action plans on paper. Do we really have $30 billion of taxes, but not enough money to oversee our child protection institutions? The government probably wants the best for the country, but unfortunately I think the instruments are wrong. I have the impression of talking to parents who cannot afford to send their children to the school leisure system because the price has gone up, after talking to children who are no longer offered swimming lessons because the swimming pool has been closed, and after talking to some of those who make up a percentage of the unemployed. We must not have a policy that, in important areas, leads to the freedom of individuals to make their own choices depending on the economic background. It may well be precisely this that separates a bourgeois and a social democratic policy. A common public school and equal right to education for all are really a pretty amazing vision and a good goal. A common school teaches us respect for each other and working together. Education also gives us the opportunity to develop as human beings and to make use of ourselves. Good education policy is about choice. The government has obviously done that. Many people experience starvation of public schools through tight school budgets. This isn't scare propaganda from an opposition on the Stortinget, but it's reality out in Municipality-Norway. There's a lot of distance between the government parties and the Workers' Party. Now we're going towards a colder school community, characterized by and guided by corporate economic principles. A good school policy does not get us through a one-sided focus on efficiency and profit. Quality costs, and the school therefore needs increased resources. For the Workers' Party, good school policies include: to equalise differences. Instead of narrowing the gaps in society, we see trends to the opposite: privatisation of school, less to camp school, more expensive and poorer SFOs, no bet in music and cultural schools, school scholarships only to the few, and large cuts in continuing education. Yes, the government is ready: it becomes tax-free for those who have the most. The consequence is that one of the most important educational policy principles in the postwar period is challenged: to give all people the opportunity to grow in knowledge. There's this development the Workers' Party doesn't want to be on. And to the extent that there's a discussion about support for a policy for the current government, it's about making choices. We've seen a government taking an alternative political course to the Workers' Party, and then it might be a little too much to ask the Workers' Party to support a policy that we are fundamentally opposed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e344	In August came the final report of the Power Investigation Committee. Over the five years the team of researchers has worked, many important reports have taken on different themes. The conclusions of many of the questions raised by Stortinget are relatively clear and unambiguous. I want to start by quoting one of the conclusions of the power investigation: ‘The most central change in the conditions of power in Norway is the decline of democracy in the fundamental meaning of democracy — a formal decision-making system through majority elections and elected bodies.’ I assume that we will have a separate case on this as the basis for a discussion in Stortinget at a later stage, but since we recently have a municipal election that confirms the findings of the power investigation, the debate on the throne should be the time and place for a more fundamental debate on where Norwegian democracy is going, or rather on: on which rails have we put the People's Government? An important conclusion, which is a direct response to the first part of the mandate adopted by the Stortinget, is that the People's Government is confused. Now it does not have to be wrong in itself if the confusion of the People's Government leads to power being transferred to other democratic bodies. Democracy is based not only on power through elected bodies at different levels, but on various forms of participation other than elections, parties and political movements. These various forms of supplementary democracy, such as action democracy, participatory democracy, consumer democracy and lobbying democracy, have supplemented the regime as a formal decision-making system, but it cannot replace it. Democracy is challenged when the conditions of the People's Government and the leeway are reduced. When the importance of democracy is transferred from popular rule as a formal form of decision-making to various forms of supplementary democracy, the confusion of the regime is obscured and the distinction between democracy and non-democracy is unclear. The confusion of the regime is not the result of a long and tough, visible struggle between elected bodies and strong interests outside, the confusion is a deliberate political strategy, the aim of which is to commercialise and transform large parts of the public sector into a market place. It happens in different ways according to the power investigation. Municipal self-government has lost much of its content through rights laws, state decrees and budget constraints. Municipalities are left with the right to consult purely local matters and with administrative responsibility for state policy. It shouldn't surprise us that the turnout this time was down to the 50s, exactly 58 pst. Market alignment, exemption and privatisation leave areas previously publicly controlled to market actors. The foundation of the welfare society is that central welfare goods, such as health, education, care in important stages of life, shall all be equal to the right to, and shall be free of charge. There is such a close link between the welfare state and the people's government that there is a great deal of uncertainty about what will happen to the welfare state if the people's government is confused, and there should be a cross of thoughts for many of us. The use of the market is a poor way to distribute well-being, because the strength of operators in the market is so different. The market works well where there are many providers and demanders, and where what to distribute is not central services that provide the basis for an active and meaningful life. These services can only be distributed fairly through elected bodies. Market adjustment and privatisation shift power from elected bodies to producer enterprises and to large market actors. In parallel with market adaptation, and probably as an attempt to defend individual individuals against the market tendency to establish monopolies, there is legalisation. We continue to adopt laws as a right-holders requirement for different services. Many of the general welfare rights are to be granted at municipal level and this limits the scope for the municipalities. Increased political contempt and lack of popular commitment are the result in the short term. In the longer term, it can have greater and dramatic consequences. That is why it is so important that we make the political options for weakening the People's Rule so important that in the political debate we show that it is on these fundamental issues that the political divisions go into Norwegian policy. The abstinence felt by both people and municipal politicians is not the result of a historically necessary development, but the result of conscious political choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e366	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e369	I share the concerns of the representative, Mr Rikham, about more market solutions and less popular governance. I believe that the government's school policy is characterised precisely by privatisation efforts and less popular governance, and that a shift away from national objectives and guidelines before alternatives are clarified. Now, the Workers' Party and SV are broadly in agreement with school policy. I'm not going to exaggerate differences, but I think SV in some contexts has given alibi to the government's school policy, which means less popular governance and fewer national guidelines before one has clarified alternatives. SV supported the Government's proposal for the removal of class divisions and class boards without clarifying the options, they backed out financing private schools that provide better conditions with security and guarantee of income. My wish for SV is that our parties can still stand together for a defense for the public common school rather than being intoxicated by the current possibility of a limited influence, or was it too much Møller's tran even before the summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e376	I think we've been a consistent defender of public school. For example, we agreed to remove the division number, but that was not the same thing as leaving anything on the market, which was the main issue in my post. What we have left there is for other public bodies, i.e. We have moved the decisions to the individual school, to the municipalities. It's been the idea, and it's very much in line with something that was my main point, namely that the decisions are to be moved out to the municipalities, out to the public schools, which are the ones we're talking about here. I therefore feel that what we did is well in line with what was my main concern, namely to strengthen the elected people, to strengthen the place of public institutions within our elected system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e381	One of the main projects of the Government is precisely the vitalisation of the People's Rule by means of decentralisation and local freedom of action, freedom of choice, living democracy and quality of service production. It also leads us to quality at school, which requires not least local freedom of action. In the election campaign one could be led to hover in the error that also SV is for local freedom of action in school and otherwise in society. But it stands in stark contrast to what SV does in Stortinget, where there are no limits to which small matter can be the subject of Storting's treatment and decision and trodden down the municipality of Norway. What does SV actually mean? Is it for local freedom of action and local democracy? And more importantly, does SV support the desen-centralisation of power and decision-making authority in school to improve the quality of school? Can we have a better democracy than an freedom of choice, where each individual is given the opportunity to have an influence on his or her own situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e390	I'm a little bit unsure of what was the intention of that question. I understand that there were questions about whether we want to decentralize decisions. I guess that's what was the essence, what was going on again. It was to the extent that I made a major issue in my introduction, namely that we need to revitalise the People's Government, both centrally, regionally and locally, and I took from the conclusions of the power investigation, which points out that this is in the process of confusing us. We want a decentralisation of decisions in the education sector. I got some questions from the Workers' Party about this with the split number. There we show that we want to spend the decisions on the individual school and on the individual municipality. So I feel enough that what we've been doing lately shows clearly that we're in favour of a policy where we want to revitalize the people's regime, locally and regionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e399	What we also do from 1 May 2004 is to shift the negotiating responsibility for salaries to the teachers into the municipalities. I assume that the SV in its eager desire to support and strengthen local democracy – moving decisions into the municipalities – is very enthusiastic about that change. We in the Progress Party are very excited. It is old party politics, which the government has now pushed to its chest. But I would like to have a comment from the representative, Mr Requam, on whether this is part of the practice of local democracy and a good example of how local politicians can gain power and authority, because they are school owners. Then I have a question about why the concern of SV about local democracy stops at the local government hall. Why is SV not more committed to empowering the inhabitants of the municipality through advisory and binding referenda? And if we're going to end by adding the visit to school: why won't the parents let the parents rule in self-governed schools, let the parents gain power?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e407	I guess I'm going to repeat what was my main concern: it was the confusion of the People's Government, starting from the power investigation. That's what I made a major theme of what I said. It means that we are concerned with the local government in the way we have been through the democratic decision-making processes of the local government, in the county councils, and not least in the centre here in Stortinget. That's what I made a big deal. That's why I wasn't at that time so concerned with other pieces of what I mentioned as a kind of supplementary democracy, which the representative Sortevik came up with, this with self-governed schools, etc. My concern was therefore the rule of the people, local and regional. So when it comes to the right to negotiate, I'll try to answer it a little quickly as well. Negotiations have been conducted between governmental bodies and organisations centrally. If this is transferred to another central employer, I cannot see that it is the dramatic importance, and that it changes so much on democracy and decision-making processes. We've been critical of this, with which Sortevik is also familiar.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e414	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e417	We have put a local choice behind us, a choice that is demanding to deal with the Christian People's Party. Of course, we need to evaluate and evaluate the road further. The choice result is also weighted to the live friars from the left. Both the SV and the Workers' Party challenge the Christian People's Party to change sides and cooperate with them, preferably in government, preferably immediately. But the election result doesn't change the composition of the Stortinget, and the Christian People's Party is not a wing party that changes sides by political – or maybe I'll call it populist – winds. The Christian People's Party made choices about family and care. This will also shape our work and priorities in the Government. Co-operation is based on important fundamental values such as closeness to love, human dignity and trustworthiness. The Christian People's Party and the Government work for a warmer society, a society where everyone knows themselves including and home, where proximity and security characterise the growing-up environment, and where human dignity is respected. To create such a society, everyone has to have their arena to grow and develop. The family is the cell of society where both children and adults can find themselves and the community. That is why we are strengthening this arena, and the Government is pursuing an offensive family and care policy. We strengthen the freedom of choice and the security of children and families. In line with the kindergarten agreement, we want to make sure that everyone who wants it has a lower parental and kindergarten space. The family as an institution is vulnerable, he needs good framework conditions. That is why we want to strengthen lasting and stable life. Separations and divorces in Norway are increasing. When parents go to their place, it is important that children become at least as vulnerable as possible. Parents need to be helped to prepare their new everyday life in the best possible way. The government will also prevent family resolution and create good and lasting living conditions. This will also be important in the future to ensure a safe and stable growth of children. So we want to strengthen lifelong activities and focus more on preventive family work. The government will give priority to measures against violence and abuse that specifically frame women and children. This has been a politically neglected area for a long time. We will strengthen the work of children and young people who are either exposed to power or witnesses to power. Experiences are traumatic in themselves and often see lasting traces. A good health policy is important to give people of all ages a good care. The government's initiative has produced good results: waiting times are drastically reduced, medical coverage is better than ever, and mental health efforts are speeding up the number of people getting help. In time, the Christian People's Party and the Government will focus on areas where health services are still largely lacking. The supply of people with mental disorders should be stepped up. Drug users need a better health supply. Human beings in the final phase of life will receive better life support, pain relief and care. These are the most important antidotes we can put in against the forces that want to open for active death help. Governments have intensified the fight against poverty both nationally and internationally. Taking the second love seriously is just taking the poorest seriously. The poverty of the world is upon us. As one of the richest countries in the world, we must go as a good example. The government has presented record-breaking aid budgets, we are working for debt relief, and we are opening our country to trade from the least developed countries. This world has also increased the gap between the richest and the poorest in recent years. Cooperation management will intensify efforts to prevent and help people out of poverty in Norway. We need more than material good to be good as human beings. Culture and the Church are important factors in a warmer society, in a value-oriented society. The government wants to lead an offensive cultural policy, with a view to securing a challenging and stimulating cultural offer for all. By participating in cultural activities and experiencing culture, we become participants in the great story, the deep value community that makes us civilized people. Culture has a self-esteem. Action on culture is a targeted investment in a warmer society. Cultural outbursts counteract the fear of the future and help to create security in association with others. The Culture message, recently presented, outlines the main lines of cultural policy priorities for the coming decade. A wide range of creative, practicing, documentary and mediating efforts from all over cultural life is a valuable counterweight to the one-sided force that various commercial forces in society can represent. In a society of ever-faster changes, we need anchoring on a stable value base. Church is a real and important cultural bearer. The size joined in the spring to a truss training reform that will provide an exciting provision of training for children and young people in their own faith. This is about giving children and young people security in their own faith and strengthening their identity. It's about equiping them for life. Confidence makes it possible to meet the faith of others and their culture without fear.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e451	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e454	State Council Reply Haugland was involved in the election of the Christian People's Party, the election of the Christian People's Party in 2001, when one joined a government with the Right and Left on a basis based on support from the Advance Party through 54 questions from Carl I. Hagen. There was a bourgeois majority in the United Kingdom after 2001 thanks to the Christian People's Party's choice of civil cooperation. And the Sem Declaration has committed itself on a number of points to implementing a policy in areas where the Right Party and the Advance Party previously stood alone alone: privatisation of state enterprises, increased public sector competition and last but not least, a massive tax burden, DKK 31 billion. The question in the autumn is whether this bourgeois majority will also collapse, as happened in 1971, 1986, 1990 and 2000. And if that happens, my question to Answerstad Haugland is whether she thinks it's reasonable that the Workers' Party should come to the rescue of this government in order to ensure that the entire Sem declaration is implemented during the four-year period, or alternatively, whether the Christian People's Party would be able to contribute to other and more stable majority, even if it would lead to a little less tax relief and a little more to the municipalities and the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e461	Now this government is based on more than these 54 questions from the Progress Party. We also have the Sem statement that we're assuming – it's actually very good, it's even better than the 54 questions, including answers. I like to call it a non-socialist plural more than a bourgeois, and that's what we're made of. We're in a non-socialist plural in Stortinget. And then it's up to the Labour Party, if the Progress Party doesn't want to be involved in negotiating the budget, if the Labour Party wants to be involved and influence the policy to be pursued. I don't think the Labour Party wants to implement the Sem statement, so I'm not simple. But I had actually believed that the Labour Party could also think of being involved in political design. We have the possibility to get multiple numbers both with the Progress Party, with the Work Party and with SV in this room. And we've alternately gotten support from these three parties. When it comes to the budget, the Labour Party has not supported us, it has the Advance Party, except in revised form. And I'm actually challenging the parties that may wish to participate and influence, to participate in and influence the budget to be decided next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e470	I will resist the temptation to comment on the elements of the re-election reaction in the Christian People's Party. I'd rather challenge the state council as a church council. In the Common Era, there is one – one – sentence about the Church: ‘The Government will facilitate an open and inclusive church, inter alia by strengthening the training of children and young people in faith.’ The faith training, also referred to by the Council of State, has been adopted with the blessing of SV. My question is how those who are now going to enter this new arrangement and use this new, strengthened religious training will experience the blessing of SV, and, we're going to believe what the Council of State concluded with, influence – because here there are questions about gaining influence. How will the users and participants in this reinforced training of faith, which is a matter for the Government, perceive and experience this blessing and influence?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e482	What amazes me most when there was a crazy handling of the truss training here in Stortinget, was that the Progress Party went against it, and I have not yet understood why they could not join in and adopt a trust training that both the SV and the Labour Party have been blessed. I am pleased with the support I have received from SV and the Labour Party in this room when it concerns the training of trust. The most important thing we can do as a Christian nation is to pass on to the next generation what our country has built on for over a thousand years. Threat training may be part of the process. I'm glad that there have been a number in this big business that has seen the value of being able to pass on our own cultural heritage. That the party of progress doesn't see that value, they get to stand for it, it doesn't really bother me. What I love and want to underline is that we have two other parties together with the government party that is constructive, and that have seen the value of being able to pass on to the next generation what we have built our society over a thousand years. When we get a more and more multicultural society, it's very important that we know that our children can be safe in meeting new cultures, they need to know what we're building on. They can also know what they believe if they find out. Then they are also much safer to meet with all the new cultures we get to our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e491	The real characteristics of a living democracy are a diversity of opinions. In Norway, we are proud that we are a newspaper-reading people, and that we have a variety of newspapers, not least local newspapers and meaningful newspapers. These are qualities that I expect we in SV share with the Council of State. I want to ask the question anyway: is it still going to be like this? The reason why I ask is the announcement from the Swedish Post Office, that in the new concession that Posten Norway is now going to operate after, there is no requirement for social responsibility. The requirement is now more profitable – shop, shop, shop. The consequence has been notified. These are heavy postage increases. Another consequence is currently not known, but there is reason to believe that this could be a serious situation for local authorities, and not least for the relevant newspapers. Has the Council of State come up with an idea or a plan to avoid the unfortunate consequences of the liberalisation of the postal service?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e500	The representative of Lund Bergo addresses a problem that is quite serious, and I agree with the representative. The post is organized in the way that a large majority of people have agreed, and the government is also dependent on following up. It is not useful to impose an obligation on the Post other than that of the concession requirement today. What I've been calling for is that when they're going to negotiate with the Post, they should merge, because they're getting stronger by negotiating together than by negotiating one and one or grouping for grouping. Now there are negotiations between all the newspapers together and the Post, and I hope that they will be able to arrive at a solution that the newspapers can offer. This responsibility lies with the Ministry of Transport and not with the Ministry of Culture, which the representative is certainly aware of. And the clear advice we've given, both the Minister of Transport and I, is: work together in negotiations, negotiate a good deal with the Post and try to get a result that makes the postage as low as possible. They've done that, and then we'll just have to wait and see. But the concession requirements that the representative requested, we don't have the possibility to impose the Post.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e509	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e513	We are witnessing a silent revolution in our healthcare system. In some years, no one will understand that once in Norway, hospitals owned the waiting lists and that the patient guarantee was actually a recommended maximum waiting time. We agreed to go sick and wait for an operation, even though the operation only cost a fraction of what the sick money was. We accepted that someone used private hospitals, but that this was reserved for the few with good finances, and those who lived in the central eastern region. We agreed to put ourselves under the scalpel without knowing that the hospital we belonged to had a significantly higher mortality rate for the type of operations than the neighbouring hospital. But someone knew. Those who had contacts, friends and acquaintances in health care could get information, but most people had to rely blindly on the system. Why did we accept this? Well, because the social democrats had told us that the public health service knew best: trust the bad rights you have, they're at least apparently just as bad for everyone. From the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, it was claimed that our solutions were to release market forces on the health care system, that our solutions would provide a two-part healthcare system. All of this is now becoming history, and the results show that we were right. A new patient rights permit is for treatment. The government’s proposal implies that patients who do not receive assistance within the deadline are entitled to health care from private individuals in Norway or abroad on public account. The patient and the referee shall inform us that the patient has the right to necessary health care and of the prescribed period. If treatment is not satisfactory in Norway for patients covered by this Act, the Government proposes that health care should be provided by providers abroad. The patient may also choose to receive treatment in private hospitals that have an agreement with regional health establishments. National waiting lists have been established and the quality and information of each hospital is now available to everyone on the Internet. In the same way that school results have become public, the quality of hospitals is now not only information available to the few, but to anyone who wants it. The private hospitals that have a contract are now part of the public health service and an offer to all, regardless of their place of residence or wallet. While the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party have accepted private hospitals as long as they were reserved, this freedom of choice now applies to all. Never before have so many private hospitals been approved, and now they come all over the country. So it's going to be competition. It is no longer the hospitals that own the waiting lists and manage them as if it were their own wallet. It is not only the rights of patients that are being strengthened and the health service that is being renewed; the government's policy is also producing results. Improvements for waiting patients are reported in this tertiary. At the end of August, the average waiting time is reduced by about 8 pst. in relation to the same time last year. The number of patients on the waiting list for investigation and treatment in somatic hospitals showed a decline of 17 pst in August. in relation to the same time last year. The waiting time for children and young people in the field of mental health protection has shown a sharp decline. At the end of August this year, there were 44 000 fewer waiting lists than at the same time last year and 63 000 fewer than two years ago. The number of long-term outcomes is reduced by 74 pst. since 2001. I would like to remind the Progress Party that only a few years ago it was only the Right Party and the Advance Party that were in charge of this health policy, now it is being implemented by the Government. I'm sure patients will never accept that these rights are taken from them again. I hear that the representatives from the SV and the Center Party still defend the system that led to hundreds of thousands of waiting lists – when your dog needed help, it was just calling the vet, but when Grandma needed a hip replacement, it was just getting in line. That system is the alternative. No government other than this had managed to carry out the huge and huge renewal of the healthcare system and patient rights that we are now witnessing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e528	In his thirty-year analysis earlier today, the Prime Minister drew up two trends that he thought were going in the wrong direction: drugs and crime. Only in the last two years have these two sizes gone in a drastically worse direction. As a result, no change was made in the political course for Norway in this area and, unfortunately, no change was made. On the other hand, more markets, less democratic political influence, tax havens and a weaker public economy are to take precedence over strengthening Community solutions where commercial interests are not in the driver's seat. In the view of the Workers' Party, this contributes to the weakening of many social security networks. The fight against crime has served on such security networks in postwar Norway. That is why we have had and have relatively less crime than other countries. It is when the common school is confused as the common arena for all of us, when young people are largely excluded from the labour market without an active policy of action and when fiscal policy is made purely commercial policy issues, that we see the increase in crime. It is not for nothing that those countries that have been pursuing traditional right-wing policies for a long time are currently on the verge of crime, despite the fact that these people like to have the most severe reactions and penalties once the actions have been committed. There is therefore a sad development, and much of the political focus now revolves between traditional crime prevention and only attempts at repair. It must continue to be the best way to get fewer patients and criminals instead of more hospitals and prisons. For the Workers' Party, it is therefore important to have a policy that ensures work, a common strong school, housing and a secure economy, good measures for children and young people and a policy that keeps drug consumption low. For us, it is important to prevent crime. And in societies where the division of classes is clear and the difference between people is larger, there is a significantly greater incidence of crime. Freedom is exacerbating the fight against crime. It is therefore very serious that unemployment now, especially among young people under 30 years of age and those with a long education, has increased by 44 pst. last year — i.e. in the last year of the Cooperative Government. And this freedom is the first one that bites itself. Paradoxically, it fails not only in prevention but also in the response system, criminal law. The police are struggling with a falling clearance rate. It is serious when only one in five winning crimes are resolved. In the courts, it is a big problem that queues of things are growing and are growing. 4 600 criminal cases are now pending for the treatment of the District Courts, and 157 appeals are waiting to be dealt with in the Court of Law after the first half of 2003. The time limit for the award of the fine in respect of these cases shall be interrupted in the courts. This increases the chances of a wrong judgment, and the burden on the victims also increases. Most seriously, however, housing queues continue to increase dramatically. Today more than 2,500 people are in line in society to zone. This summer, this line was over 2,800 judges. This implies an increase of 76 pst. since the accession of the Cooperative Government in October 2001. It is a serious challenge for the rule of law when the time from criminal action to punishment must be so long. This reduces the possibility of rehabilitating the convicted offender and contributes to increased crime. It weakens individual prevention, and it weakens general prevention. When will the Government support the Workers' Party's proposal for greater investment in this area? Studies also show that a greater proportion of prisoners in Norwegian prisons are struggling with both alcohol and drug problems and with mental problems. Therefore, efforts in relation to Norwegian prisons need not only to create new places, but to a large extent to enable prisons to rehabilitate those who are there. The working party is very concerned that the rehabilitation content of the housing is now to be down-prioritised. We live in a changeable time. Material goods, more for money and the cheapest possible alcohol and wine seem not only to be a measure of the party's harvest here in the Storting, but also a measure of whether people are happy. This could be an animal-acquired experience. River we down laborious social security networks, we hardly have a reaction device that is ready to deal with new problems. We have enough problems as it is. The question is now: When will the Government take action?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e554	The Prime Minister was through a 30-year revision of his experiences. It could be tempting to do the same thing, take my 25-30 years of experience in political work with the party of the Prime Minister and the way they have behaved over these 25-30 years. But I'll leave it. I'll take the lead on a perhaps more important matter. I should like to refer to proposal No. 15, where we ask the Government to see that the resources that are in the sea become remaining national resources, and that they be managed as such. If you look at the time perspective, it is clear that one has inconceivable times, throughout history, considered the resources created by nature, created by the Spring Lord, which lies off our coast or so far in our mountain home, in essence, as a national property – a national property that everyone should be able to take part in, regardless of every cage in the country. There has never been a requirement for a bus to be able to take part in the fall of our natural resources. Therefore, it is frightening to experience that more parties now have the right to regionalise our fishing resources. The centre party has clearly decided, even if there are wild protests from some coastal representatives. SV has also partly decided to go into the regionalisation of fish resources. Let's do that. What is worrying is that the Workers' Party is now in a process where there are strong forces to ensure that we get a regionalisation of fish resources. In addition, some states in the Workers' Party are threatening to refuse to participate in the electoral campaign if the party fails to participate in the regionalisation of fish resources. I feel remorse for such a policy. The strange thing is that it is the county municipality in Finnmark that has spent time carrying out a so-called analysis. In this way, I must say that it is enough a good argument to put down the county council when they spend time and energy on such things. I think that if we go to the step of regionalising fish resources, we're doing ourselves a bear service. I believe that we are destroying the Norwegian fishing industry because it is good for today. It has always been that we should have a differentiated fishing fleet, a differentiated industry based on marine resources. It is also time to ask the question, What about other resources? Should it be that in More and Romesdal we should have all the revenue from the Worm Lange? Is that right? Are we going to assume that the rest of the coast is going to be able to demand that the oil revenues are going to the right of the states that have these resources lying outside their coastal areas? I think it's going to be a lot weird. We can also ask the question, what about our water force? Should she also right to the county, the region, through which the river flows, where we have formed our power plants? What about the minerals in the earth that are in the mountains? Should they also be right in a region? The fish doesn't have any special features in that way compared to the other. I think it's important that the Government now makes sure that we get to the interaction that is needed to make the best use of resources, which is the best way for most people in the whole country, and that a person who wants to participate in business development and participation in business is allowed to do so. Whatever a cage in the country, it must be possible for it. I hope and believe that the government party will support proposal No. 15 from the Progress Party in the reconciliation later tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e569	I had the opportunity to visit a lot of companies in the campaign. A proposal that re-entered the industry’s own desire was reinforced communication. It is embarrassing that the majority of the population, led by the government party, have ensured that we are billions behind the decision taken in connection with the national transport plan. The centre party will return to that theme in the context of the 2004 budget. I want to challenge the Government at two points: fighting poverty and strengthening local democracy. It is very good that the Government now announces the intensification of the fight against poverty. The government is making considerable efforts in this field internationally. The centre party is pleased about that, but we are all the more surprised at the puzzles of Regestinga's management of increasing poverty in Norway. We would like to ask that the further effort be something more than what we saw in this year's budget. Then there were extra assets, that is sick and unemployed, that would pay for a small and modest action plan against poverty. Studies show that disabled people and immigrants are overrepresented in terms of unemployment, and that single-person households and families with children are struggling to get it around. Poverty is a limited problem in Norway, the easier it would be to set up measures that work. So to a strengthened local democracy. The central party shares the Prime Minister's concern about historically low electoral takeovers. The development of power and democracy shows that people have less interest in the political system. Organisational participation goes down, and the parties lose out. Local politicians have less power. The representative government of the people is weary in all its terms. Globalization takes power from the local decision-making system, and the judiciary's power is increasing. Every day, the local environment mobilizes when it is really in debt, for school, for local hospitals and for maternity wards that are in danger of being laid down. At the forefront of the fight is also often local business. Many business leaders in the districts see the link between good local welfare provision and the recruitment of skilled labour. The Prime Minister seemed to make local freedom of action a matter of some ear-tagged appeals from time to time. Did more disabled people get an assistant if that was what they wanted after the government was removed? Did the district councils get more landline supplies in the continuing school on the tip of the road? The local freedom of action for which the Government is running seems to be forced to cut. The centre party will release the local population selected more freely, but the basis must be consistent with the current tasks and resources. Local democracy seemed to thrive best in smaller units. It is important to be close to citizens and decision-makers, with local people who meet their voters on the street and in the store. The citizens must be sure that they have a real impact on the decisions they make on their everyday lives. They must be met with elected representatives who take responsibility. A number of examples show that the Government disclaims responsibility and debts on the municipalities in cases where the Government itself has failed. New patients are transferred from hospitals to municipalities without new funds. New asylum recipients will be created without necessary dialogue with the local population. There are loops with bridges and broadband to get a municipal merger. The centre party today has five proposals, all based on the promise given by a plural in this hall in the election campaign. Support for these proposals is a contribution to restoring the trust between voters and elected representatives! I recommend all of these five suggestions. So the Prime Minister used public sector developments from 1973 to today to show that the public sector has increased its share of GDP. He let be told that the part now goes down, and that it is the government's goal that then shall happen. Yes, should we then be so optimistic that we should believe that the Prime Minister sees him in the wrong direction, that he is in the wrong company, that he has to spend more money so that the tasks can be resolved locally in the municipal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e584	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e587	Strong local democracy is a measure of which there is after all quite a stir, and I also agree with Mr Kleppa that the financial framework is a decisive commitment to a strengthened local democracy. But there is still a question of how much to do in relation to all other tasks that are now to be resolved within a defensive budgetary framework, and I record that the Centre Party has the same amount of one billion or two more to local economy, at least when they are in opposition. When they were in position and had the prime minister of the Bondevik I government's period, we saw little about the billions. But if we're going to have a local democracy around Norway, one depends on one having people who live and work there. The centre party has shown a great commitment to district policy, and I agree that we have had a trend of great centralisation and urbanisation for some time. But the question is whether it's time to go in and reconsider some of the district policy tools. Because what we're experiencing out in the community now is that it's very closed societies. We see it within agriculture with concessional conditions, odelslaw and other rules that deny dissent, etc. Is the Center Party willing to reconsider that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e594	There's something that I'm still wondering, and it's that despite the fact that the Central Party is protecting the local government in very difficult budgets while we were in government, it's sometimes in this room that we're still going to look back instead of forward. It's actually like this for us in the Center Party that we're busy looking forward, we're busy securing a good school and a worthy care. We're busy securing a good local health supply, and we're concerned that people should have the opportunity to work where they live. We were actually part of a government that put down a selection to go through the law when it comes to agricultural policy. At the same time, however, we also provided a very good basis for an offensive agricultural policy in St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, and we have not seen ourselves lead, as the Christian People's Party, to go away from the pillars of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e599	What amazes me a little bit in this persuasion debate is some of the pessimism that actually prevails in some posts, the last exposed in the post of the representative of Meltveit Kleppa. On the one hand, there is a deep concern about the opportunities our local authorities have to manage the tasks, while the party itself, with great boldness, is promoting new proposals that will, in consequence, impose new restrictions on the ability to exercise local authority. This time it is the cultural landscape that is being neglected. The Central Party here proposes that the Government now implement what they call an action plan for the conservation of Norwegian cultural landscapes, and my question to the representative Meltveit Kleppa is: What do you see here? Is the 100-metre belt to be replaced by a 100-mile belt, which is not allowed to do anything until the state authorities have said their own, where new national policy guidelines are to be further shackled to local land management? Or is it Åslaug Haga's recent concern in the election campaign that, in many places, the whole cultural landscape is at peace, which the Central Party wants the Government to take hold of now?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e604	I must correct a public misunderstanding. It's not really like me and the Center Party represent a pessimistic view of life in general or of life in the districts in particular – rather the opposite. We have very good faith that people should have the opportunity to live and work across the country. That is why, today, we are tabling proposals on rural areas, and that is why we are proposing an action plan to secure the cultural landscape. I understand that the representative Hogsnes is moving even more in Tønsberg and surrounding than I have been aware of, if he has not seen the re-growth that is going on, if he has not seen how important it is to take care of the cultural landscape for an active travel life. Now I understand that he has got some of the arguments from my party leader, and I ask him, since I don't have any more time, to study him more closely. I'm behind that line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e609	The views of the centre party on Norwegian district policy are marked by a great deal of commitment. And the Central Party has, in fact, until today, far on its way anyway, succeeded in obtaining a majority in order to conduct a very liberal district policy in Norway. Nevertheless, the migration flow from the districts to the cities has been considerable for a long time. On a daily basis, between five and ten farms are closed — all this is contrary to the policy objectives set. There is thus a lot of central party policy in the district policy that is being pursued in Norway today. Nevertheless, this does not work very convincingly in relation to the policy objectives of combating relocation and maintaining agriculture. And so what is the Central Party's explanation that this very expensive district policy that has been pursued over the last decades, and which, therefore, the Central Party itself has largely been behind, does not seem to have worked very well in relation to the reality that we are witnessing today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e616	It may not be that the Central Party can take joint responsibility for the regional policy that is being pursued. date. We strongly disagree with the fact that regional policy instruments are being dismantled. We've even been with the Progress Party on one important point, namely that it's now about strengthening the infrastructure in this country in the broadest sense, whether we're talking about road or broadband. If we had come to grips with our policies, it shouldn't have been so many ways to move because it wasn't work to get. Then we were to strengthen both SND and other district policy tools, and we should have seen the district office immediately in order to obtain the necessary calculations. But the most important thing was that we had the opportunity to make better use of resources in the districts than is the case right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e622	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e625	The representative Meltveit Kleppa and the Center Party can be an example of what I intend to start with, namely that today's debate has shown that one of the main challenges now is the willingness to think new. And here's a big difference in the political landscape. The centre party is one thing, but unfortunately, the Labour Party has a hard time seeing society change. The party seems to be in doubt about yesterday's solutions. New and forward-looking solutions sparkle with their absence. This led Oddvard Nilsen in his reply to Jens Stoltenberg with a personal example of freedom of choice in caring for his mother. I'm going to focus on another field: workplaces. Here, for a long time, the Workers' Party has been upset in its criticism of the Government, but the party itself holds on to old solutions. The Labour Party must stop suffocating labour market measures and maintaining and creating new jobs. We face two completely separate challenges. Measures are being put in place against the unemployed, but in order to create new and lasting jobs, different instruments must be used. Then it's about framework conditions, and here it's important to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. I note with regret that Jens Stoltenberg has not stressed the importance of creating jobs in today's debate either. I think it is more than striking that he consistently failed to mention the need for stable framework conditions and the need for a predictable tax policy in his posts and answers. Instead, he talked only about measures for those who are all available. Unemployment is very worrying, because it is about individuals. But that's exactly why it's a main goal for the Government to get more hands to work. Creating and retaining jobs are, as State Council Victor Norman said, job no. 1st@item: inlistbox As many as 150,000 people will have been involved in an action during the year, because the Government is counting on effective job-oriented measures. The government is paying for job search and self-employment instead of passive schemes. If we had used the Worker Party medicine, with an even stronger increase in action, more of those now moving relatively quickly into a new job would instead have gone into action. It's worth noting that more than 40 pst. of the unemployed have been unemployed for less than eight weeks. Only about 12 pst. have been available for more than one year. The government's policy is effective, for the Government has made the most important effort to combat unemployment: to facilitate a fall in interest rates and a lower exchange rate and to implement historically large tax reliefs for Norwegian enterprises. It's working. We have received a budget that has already contributed to seven interest reductions of a total of 4.5 percentage points. Although the challenges are still high, there is now increased optimism in the business world and happy news is coming. In my home region, Grenland, the process industry is strong. It is therefore gratifying that Director Svein Thompson of the Land Association of Process Industries in August stated that the sharp decline in employment in the processing industry’s enterprises has stopped. Another glad tidings from Grenland: The French-owned company Eramet announced on 12 September that they would continue to bet on the two melting plants in Porsgrund and Sauda. And it is worth noting that Director Dolmen's statement about the importance of providing the competitive industry with predictable and long-term framework conditions. Aetate sees light in the tunnel and we think we can wait better times on the labour market. The fall in the dollar rate, the low interest rate and the rise in private consumption may be the basis for a positive envelope next year, says analyst at Aetat, Stein Langeland. The government's policy is in the fight against unemployment. It seems that time has not come to conduct the experimental policy of the Progress Party. A rather useful thing is to turn the clock back, as the working party tends to do. And SV will be a disaster for business. With its tax reinforcements, SV's proposals will frustrate the ability to create value and jobs. The alternatives are bad, and the government must therefore continue to pursue a policy that works and that is at the best for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e653	‘Government’s policy is working’, says the representative Holmberg. Yes, the unemployment figures that came last Thursday showed a further increase in unemployment. The unemployment rate has increased by an average of 60 every single day since the government change. There is a need for a ceiling to reduce the unemployment rate. The dramatic increase in the employer’s contribution to which the Progress Party and the government parties have now joined may further increase the problems in the labour and industry. The Labour Party has called for a broader debate and dialogue in this matter between the Government, the Stortinget and the local authorities in the areas affected. It hasn't happened. The Labour Party asked the Prime Minister in a letter that the Government had to assess the use of the derogation that has now been applied in order to ensure a continued zero rate in Nord-Troms and Finnmark. This is a mechanism that the EU itself uses at regular intervals. The government has never given the Stortinget any reason why the rule of exception was only used for Nord-Troms and Finnmark. The government has not at any time demonstrated that our partners in EFTA demanded that the limit on who is to keep the current system had to be drawn in such a way that the North journey fell within and the South journey fell outside. On the contrary, the government has confirmed in letters to the Workers' Group that they have never made any proposal to maintain a low employer's fee in areas other than Finnmark and Nord-Troms. In a letter to the Workers' Party, the Government wrote that one on the Norwegian side considered it unrealistic. The Prime Minister has also shown that the Government sought advice from ESA. But dear Bondevik and Foss! The use of security arrangements cannot be clarified by professional advisers, nor by ESA. The whole point is to set aside ESA's decisions. The use of security arrangements is a purely political solution. For this reason, the result alone depends on political craftsmanship. And therefore, the Labour Party believes it is critical that the Government has not even tried this channel to try to continue the scheme of lower employer fees for larger areas. When the case was dealt with in the EEA Committee of Stortingen, Jens Stoltenberg also said that the Workers' Party does not have ‘any basis to support the Government in that border goes there’. However, when the Government received a majority in favour of its proposal, it is because the Progress Party provided clear support for this increase in fees. The main speakers of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, stated when the case was decided in the EEA Committee of the EEA, that the Progress Party “sees the Government doing a real job, and it receives support in its further handling”. Therefore, the compensation of employees for district holdings is now increased by up to nine percentage points. The government further claims that there was no other option than to set the maximum rate for the rest of the country. That's wrong. It is fully possible to continue a lower charge for non-international competitors. Here again, the Workers' Party has asked for an assessment of using a low fee as far as possible. Government parties say no. Therefore, and only for this reason, a number of enterprises that could maintain a low tax now have to pay a full tax. And let's agree on the facts: it's because of the Government's election and the Advance Party's support and no mandate from ESA, from the EU or any other authority. The Labour Party has concluded that full compensation should be granted to the regions affected, both in relation to the public and private sectors. However, three months before the levy is to be increased, businesses do not yet know how to compensate for the increase. Yes, they do not even know what the change will be, as ESA has not yet approved the transitional regime. In the view of the Workers' Party, this is a strong argument that the implementation of the tax change should be postponed. However, we will come back to this after we have seen the government's statement in the government budget. In short: Oddvard Nilsen has very little to inflate in this matter, as he did in a line change earlier today. On the contrary, he, the Government and the Advance Party should take in on the fact that the Government and the Advance Party have decided here a historic increase of 9 pst., which too many areas should have been avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e675	A look-up in the Evening Post on 30 September of this year reproduced a study carried out by the Riksrevision in relation to the hospitals. The study concluded that hospitals prioritise profitable patients at the expense of other patient groups. On the basis of the conclusion, a study of hip operations in 28 hospitals found that initial operations were prioritised at the expense of reoperations in case of pangs after the first operation. What these numbers reveal is very serious. In concrete terms, the situation that then arises will be that patients such as has a prosthetic solution and has a lot of problems — it can be older people who are in a nursing home — not being prioritised in the health queue, simply because hospitals do not see it as profitable. I record that the health minister's reaction when he was asked about this was: ‘You’re on wild roads if the hospitals go after the most profitable patients.’ The Minister for Health also said: ‘In order to avoid undesirable distortive effects, there is a need to consider whether the funding system should be adjusted by having greater elements of basic funding.’ I have to say that I am very pleased with the way in which the Council of State responds, because it makes it clear that the Minister of Health has a pragmatic relationship with the funding system and instead is concerned about how patients can be cared for. When you get this kind of rash, it has to be corrected. I had a question for the Progress Party earlier today about the exact same thing. We see how the Progress Party sticks to a financing model, and not just sticks to it, but wants it extended, despite the fact that it is now beginning to reveal these kinds of problems. But what I think is interesting is how different the Council of State reacts to these kinds of signals compared to its partners in the Right. We have now heard various representatives from the Right in each of their areas warmly express their gratitude for the support the Progress Party has given to the Government. Bent Höie did the same thing. Bent Höie painted a picture of the health care system that I think patients would have problems knowing about, as if the challenges are now being solved, instead of actually having to correct for this type of rash. It will obviously be a strength if you look at the funding mechanism, as the Council of State has said, that you want to do in the form of a large-scale notification. SV can already signal that the thoughts the state council expresses here are things that SV has expressed for a long time and that we will be able to support. We see that in different areas of health care, we are facing challenges, not least because of the direction chosen in health policy, and the problems facing us as a consequence. The escalation plan for mental health protection is an example of this. Just because the funding systems are different, we see how priority areas are lagging behind. In particular, conditions have been bad in children’s and young people’s psychiatry. This means that we need to find models that give priority to the weakest, rather than giving priority to those areas that are economically most profitable, and it is important to get to grips with it quickly. So we're looking at how the only department on a national basis offering psychotic children is about to be laid down, at the Sogn Center for Child and Youth Psychiatry. We see areas of psychiatry in the Health East, such as Gran in Hadeland, in the process of being closed down – offers that should be prioritised according to Storting's objectives, and then you get professionals who instead want to put them down. We see how professionals, in part, express disagreement with the Storting's objectives in a psychiatry escalation plan, and make it clear that they have not at all understood how the Storting works, how the Government works, in relation to what should be political objectives. It is obvious that there is a need here both for the Council of State to intervene in the direction of health policy and to provide the Storting with a means of governing health policy. So, as SV has called for a number of times, national health plans, so that you can see what is political and what is political in nature in the various health establishments. In many of these areas, SV has cooperated constructively with the Government. I see that biotechnology law has been taken into account in relation to the census, and it will be important for SV to fulfil many of the same objectives that I see the Government expressing. But then one must also be concerned with a constructive way forward that is marked by pragmatism in helping those who have the needs, instead of an ideology that is moving towards market governance more and more, and politicians less and less.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e698	Several years in a row, Norway has become the world's best country to live in. There's no doubt that most of us are doing very well. But equally full is the fellow human being falling between two chairs. I don't think we're going to go a lot beyond the big building until we see fellow humans like Social Democratic Norway don't have the ability to follow up, people who feel translated and forgotten by both society and their citizens. The Christian People's Party is the family and care party. We cannot therefore sit quietly and see that some fall outside the welfare community. That's why the Christian People's Party is going to fight social distress. The Christian People's Party's goal is for everyone to get help when they need it. There may be older people in need of a sick place, or homeless people in need of shelter, drug addicts in need of help and treatment, or poor people in need of financial support to make ends meet. The cooperative government is the first government to come up with a concrete action plan against poverty, and the Christian People's Party is proud to sit in a government that takes poverty seriously both nationally and internationally. Ivar Aasen has a strofe that expresses his priorities to the Christian People's Party in an outstanding way: "No one can do to Layer after all; It is now old and will be so. I think it's going to be all right. aa help it, as it needs most." For the Christian People's Party, therefore, it is gratifying that the Government signals that the efforts to prevent and help people out of poverty, and including the fight against housing deprivation, should intensify. At the same time, it is signaled that the supply of treatment and the supply of health to drug users should be strengthened. The social profile of the throne really reflects the participation of the Christian People's Party in the Government. Our culture has a bleak tendency to view disability as a human problem rather than in society. In the census, it was underlined that the Government will work for equality and accessibility for disabled people. This is a good and important signal. Disability has been seen for a very long time as a financial burden rather than as a valuable resource. Such a thought reinforces the very problem that one believes that it is the body of the individual human being who is problematic, and not society's grips or designs of the environment. One who really dared to give clear notice of the violation of human dignity has said the following: We want a decent salary that we can live on, and a work that we are able to do, and not just the other that we think we can do. We want to stay wherever we want in our own country. We don't want to be housed in dwellings that we can never call our own. We want to be a natural part of the population and not be forced to live in their own ghettos. We want to be allowed to go out after noon. 11 in the evening and don't be sent to our rooms as if we were little kids. We want freedom to travel in our own country. We want to be allowed to go into all shops, theatres, schools or public buildings. This might be a quote that was used for an equal society for those with disabilities in Norway, but it isn't. Nor is it directed towards and the coins in the Nordic countries. This is a quote from Nelson Mandela, who talks about the white minority's discrimination against the dark ones in South Africa. But it's just as striking how the effect on some areas can be perceived equally, even though the motives behind it are obviously not the same. The Christian People's Party's vision is that people, if they have reduced their ability to function, are drug addicts and homeless, even if they have somehow fallen through in today's welfare society, will have the possibility of personal development, participation and life-savering in the same way as other citizens. For the Christian People's Party, it is decisive that we are able to convey hope, because we miss the hope that something can be better, nor can we be able to convey this hope to those in debt. Hope is created by caring, caring so that people can understand that life can be changed. Such a hope and such care is a good start to reach the Christian People's Party's vision of building a warmer society.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e727	Unemployment has been at the centre of this debate, and that is good. But it is striking how the opposition has been more concerned with criticising than with promoting its alternatives, more concerned with black-painting than with rejoicing that optimism is coming back. We see that the government's policy has begun to work. A combination of tight budgets that have reduced interest rates and exchange rates, significant business benefits and moderate wage settlements means that more people are now willing to bet. Aker Kværner has got new contracts to ensure jobs. SAS at Gardermoen has obtained a contract to secure jobs. Small enterprises report a belief in increased profitability and employment. The public sector is being renewed. There will be less bureaucracy and better service. The welfare is safeguarded and further expanded. The education sector is renewed with more diversity and greater freedom of choice; knowledge is put at the centre, so that students can learn more. Government policy works. The debate has so far confirmed that the option is the political and economic experiment of the Progress Party, which will put many thousands of jobs in the private sector at risk, or the Workers' Party's wish to reverse the clock. I will admit that it was exciting to follow Jens Stoltenberg's first months in the Prime Minister's chair in the spring of 2000. Then the Workers' Party recognized that they had been too often a brake pad when the Right went ahead and opened and modernised Norway. They talked about innovation and modernisation – until the LO said no. Then Jens Stoltenberg stopped, put the party in reverse, and turned the clock back, in fact, so far back that even Gerd Liv Valla would come out and say that Jens Stoltenberg has now turned very left. I think it was meant to be a compliment. SV is not just turning the clock back, but they have a deliberate policy of strangling the value creation, to turn back the oil taps. Should SV get what they wanted, with their increased taxes, with their 6-hour working day and with less activity in the North Sea, there would be less money for school, less money for hospitals and less money for elderly care. In the debate, Carl I. Hagen has been concerned about stating that the Progress Party is a bourgeois or non-socialist party. The question is whether it will last. It's not more than half a year ago that the same Carl I. Hagen launched the Progress Party as the old – or was it the new – working party. Carl I. Hagen himself has been in deep diving in the 1970s Workers' Party wardrobe and found ideas about state ownership and a selective industrial policy. I hope that the marks of the Progress Party or Carl I. Hagen in this debate will also have political consequences. You have to take the consequences of acting as a non-socialist or bourgeois party. Then it is worth noting that one of the greatest civil virtues is accountability and predictability. I have to admit that with the budget at hand, it will be exciting to see if there are these virtues that are going to shape the Advance Party in the weeks and months to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e740	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e743	The government's policy works, says Jan Tore Sanner. Yes, unemployment has increased to over 100,000, unfortunately. It's man we're talking about, who's out of work. But the Right is very satisfied with the policy they have pursued, and it should just be lacking, because it is good right-wing policy. It has been harder for the Christian People's Party to defend both the tax haven and more. But when so much capital has been brought back to business as we have witnessed in recent years, with billion-dollar tax breaks, what does Jan Tore Sanner think is the reason why the number of start-ups is looking? It drops straight down, and the unemployment increases. Does this not indicate that there is no clear link between tax laws to business and increase in the number of jobs? It goes into those who are rich, their pockets, and it's going to increase unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e750	Also in this election campaign, I have, like probably many, been traveling, also in Business Norway. I must admit that I have not met one company that has missed Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen as Minister of Finance. I haven't met someone who has said, "Can't you be so kind as to increase taxes, and we're going to start hiring more people?" What we know, on the other hand, from the last time unemployment was on top, during the Workers' Party in the early 1990s, is that it takes some time from the growth of the economy to the start of unemployment. Now we see that the signals are starting to come, that businesses are starting to look brighter in the future. Then we say that we see that the government's policy is working. The alternative is the political and economic experimentation of Hagen or the wish of the Workers' Party and the SV to tax companies out of Norway. There will certainly be no more jobs by increasing taxes on business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e755	The representative Sanner is one of the few representatives of the government parties who have taken the time to talk about the release between the praises of the government's policy, and that's for the best. But when the main claim is that the government's policy is working, you have to ask yourself what level of ambition the representative Sanner really has. For what is the real signal from the real reality is that unemployment does not go back, but it increases. No later than Friday, before the weekend, there were figures showing that the youth unemployment rate below 30 years of age has increased by more than four years of education by 44 pst. in relation to last year. The communication from Aetat is that these developments are progressive and will strengthen beyond the harvest. If this is true – and this isn't black paint, this is Aeta's number – it must mean that there is something in the government's policy that doesn't work. I asked Oddvard Nilsen about this earlier today – I got no answer then: Does the Right have any action against youth unemployment, or are you just hoping for nice weather?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e761	Of course it would have been nice even with a little nice weather! I agree that there is a need for an active and ambitious policy to reduce unemployment. That's actually what we've been doing in the last two years. When we talk about the need for a tight budget and to get interest rate and exchange rate down, it's not to lean back and just hope for good weather. It is not easy for the representatives of the government parties to say no to all the press groups that line up outside the Storting, but we have done so because the cause of the rising unemployment has been high interest rates, strong crowns, high wage settlements and excessive taxes in Norway. So we've concentrated on doing something about the causes of unemployment. Now, when we see that it's starting to light up, there's no time in either experimentation or turning the clock back. I think that SV could have benefited from sometimes showing up their own policies and hearing what those who are going to hire people in Norway would think about it, whether to turn the taxes up, introduce the 6-hour working day or turn the oil taps back on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e766	It is a pity that the government had to run all the way down the ditch to admit that they were on the wrong course. I am now thinking about unemployment policy. They have now been tested whether it is correct that 1 billion extra oil crowns in the budget lead to higher interest rates and higher inflation. What we've seen is that we spent an extra 10 billion dollars in 2002, and that's this year as well. Nevertheless, prices and interest do not go up. That's the opposite that happens. It has been tried out whether large reliefs in taxes and taxes provide cheaper wage settlements. The opposite happened in 2002, when it was really great relief. It has been tried out whether it is right not to comment on what Norway’s Bank does when it only governs inflation in interest rate policy. It has been tried out whether it makes sense to save on the post called SND. Ekorenes, a central government member in the Right, has said that we need it bigger. The center party has granted 3 to 5 billion extra oil crowns each year to increase the activity, and that's what the SSB and others now say is what's been the right recipe all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e771	Morten Lund has done a good job if he has found an economist who has done well for the Central Party's policy, not least for the Central Party's economic policy. For it is not that the SSB has recommended the Centre’s alternative economic policy. On the contrary, there has been quite a broad consensus in the economic environment that the most important thing to win the fight against increasing unemployment is to deal with the basic problems. Of course, you could hire all the people in the public sector, but I don't even think the Center Party would be in favour of that. But we wanted to do something about the basic problems, and they have, as I said, been linked to interest rates and interest rates, to excessive taxes, and also to the fact that we have had too expensive wage settlements. That's the policy we're now seeing starting to work, and then time is needed to hold on to that course, so that we can win the fight against unemployment. Growth in the economy is taking place, and then unemployment will also start to decline.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e776	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e779	Most of us still have a fresh memory of the winter power crisis with sky-high electricity prices, which forced many of the country's inhabitants to go the heavy road to the social office. However, this does not apply to the Government, which unfortunately seems to have forgotten or perhaps postponed what happened. In this year’s census, only two and a half lines are found to address these important challenges. And unfortunately, what's there contains nothing new. In the light of what happened in winter, I had now expected the government to throw off the paralysis and facilitate a significant increase in power generation, so that we got a better balance between supply and demand and a more stable electricity price at a much lower level. A few days before the local elections, the Minister of Oil and Energy went into the evening post and took self-criticism in the absence of an increase in power generation and thereby signalled a change in policy in this area. On the other hand, the formulations in the census do not reflect a change in the government’s policy — or rather a lack of policy — in this area. So the government's play was probably nothing but a election campaign play with no political value. Norway is today blessed by nature with enormous energy resources that most other countries can only envy us. In the past, it was politically legitimate to use these important resources for industrial travel, value creation and wealth development across the whole country. These resources were, of course, the basis for the industrialisation of Norway over much of the last century. Unfortunately, industrial and energy policy now seems to be based on a totally misunderstood environmental thinking that is largely based on symbols and not realities. We have to be an environmental policy priority country, said the Prime Minister this morning. It is completely forgotten that Norwegian industry is at the top of the world in terms of both the environment and energy use. And it is completely forgotten that without harmonised framework conditions and sufficient force, production moves to other countries with completely different emission requirements and a completely different and more polluting energy production. The environmental impact of this is going to be negative, the exact opposite of what you want. As I said before, we have a lot of energy in Norway. So it's not an energy shortage that many people go around and believe. However, it is a fact that unfortunately there is a lack of political power to use these resources. The party of progress has for many years warned against this activism as we have seen that the gap between supply and demand for power has increased considerably. The same warnings have also come from the foremost expertise we have today in the field, including: NVE and Statnett. Both this government and, to the extent that the three previous governments have turned the deaf ear to nothing. And the result of this was unfortunately seen last winter, with sky-high prices and risk of disconnection and rationalization. It should eventually be obvious to most people that there is the balance between supply and demand that governs the electricity price in a market. It is therefore both the Government and the political majority in this Chamber who are responsible when the price of electricity rises at the level we saw last winter. This is because they directly intervene in the market and actively prevent the increase in power generation. This I hope they will soon take inwards. The Progress Party has not only warned against this situation. In addition, we have actively worked for an increase in power generation. We were the only party that supported the full expansion of the Upper Otta watercourse. We were all alone in supporting a power development in Saltberg and Svartisen. We were also all alone to support an extension in Sauda in line with the NVE's position and to support the extension of the Hatteberg watercourse. We have also worked actively over many years to use our gas resources for power generation. In the spring session, we promoted a number of comprehensive proposals for increased power generation, based on both water and gas, as well as proposals to improve security of supply for electricity. Nothing of this was given to the majority, despite the precarious situation we had in winter, and despite many fine celebrations that now something had to be done. Today, only the Progress Party is working for a significant and necessary increase in power generation to keep the electricity price in check. And we still believe that we should use our natural resources for value creation, employment and prosperity development for the benefit of the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e798	The party of the Christian People's Party has referred to itself as the family and care party. This sounds great, but the government’s policy, or lack of policy on unemployment, affects both individuals and families — not least children. We now have about 110 000 unemployed in the country, and the number is increasing. Among other things, we see: that youth unemployment has taken place. For the unemployed, the situation is difficult. Not only has the Government cut off the day-to-day pay system, but also in the case of labour market measures, the Government makes too little. Labour market measures are important in order to enable individuals to stay active and qualify for a new job. It is therefore extra unfortunate that the government has not taken this seriously. Unemployment also creates insecurity not only for the individual but for the whole family and the community. Uncertainty about the future is difficult to deal with for many, not least the children. In the Children's and Family Committee, we will discuss the family communication this autumn. It takes life and parenting for granted. Unfortunately, it has little to do with what happens when the family has economic and social problems, problems that hit the children particularly hard. When the prime minister used so much of his post this morning to talk about measures against bullying in school, he should have linked this to the children's situation in families with weak economies. Making plans doesn't help unless the government sees the relationship between work and the family's financial ability to give children equal opportunities. "...the family is under pressure today," said Bondevik. Yes, exactly! Unemployment and increasing pressure in the workplace do something about the family and care for children. Either parents come home in the afternoon after a long day and are exhausted, or they have no purpose in filling the day, affect this care they give their children. The result can be many personal tragedies, where public authorities have to take responsibility. If this happens first, we all have to make sure that the offer made by the public is good enough. It is therefore unsustainable when some children in foster homes or child protection institutions do not receive the supervision they require. Even I was in favour of a proposal for a government authorisation scheme for child protection institutions. We wanted the county to be able to override child protection and have the right of instruction against child protection. Unfortunately, the proposal did not get a majority in this Chamber. The Riksrevision report also shows that guidance from the Ministry has been too poor on the implementation of institutional supervision. Minister for Children and Family Affairs Laila Davay said to the NRK that when the department hears about the findings of care failure in children in foster homes or child welfare institutions, they contact the county council and child protection in the municipality concerned. This is in our view too late. The Council of State is responsible for the good functioning of the supervisory system in the municipalities so that care failures are caught at an early stage. It doesn't keep coming back. The responsibility does not arise after the damage has been done. It's there all the time. I am therefore worried about what happened in the Evening Post evening number today that the children's homes should be checked less frequently, and that visits from the county should be reduced from eight to four times a year. Many children may experience traumatic experiences before being placed in foster homes. This strengthens the requirements for follow-up and guidance, not the opposite. We therefore proposed that guidance skills in the municipalities should be strengthened and coordinated with State responsibility. The working party also stressed that children who have been placed in foster homes for a long time have poor protection. When the public intervenes with regard to children and their parents with care, it should be ensured that this is in the best interests of the child and that the offer meets quality objectives. "...the consideration of the children goes first," said Bondevik today. Yes, exactly! It is therefore important that the supervisor monitor the child’s situation and it is therefore essential that the foetuses feel confident in order to identify any problems. In order to ensure the proper functioning of child protection, more resources are needed for actions and personnel to help this group of children and young people. As a society, we can't afford not to. This is essentially an investment for the future both for children and for society. Therefore, the Riksrevision report needs to be taken seriously and the allocation of child protection increased. At the same time, unemployment needs to be reduced, so that even more families are not exposed to uncertainty and economic and social problems. This is what creates poor children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e817	Of course, the major theme of the year in the political debate and election campaign has been the labour market situation. The right takes this situation seriously, and the main priority of the Government is the fight against unemployment. One of the countries with the highest unemployment rates in Norway is actually Finnmark. This is largely due to problems in the fishing industry, and many experience that the wheels have stopped in local communities. In the debate on unemployment, it is important to analyse its causes. International business cycle is also an important premiscible for Norwegian business. In addition, the Norwegian level of costs is crucial for how Norwegian enterprises operate. When Norwegian enterprises have higher financial costs than their competitors and international economic downturns, this provides a basis for less activity in the competitive sector and, of course, increased unemployment. The Parliamentary Head of the Right, Oddvard Nilsen, pointed out earlier in the debate that the recipe of the Cooperation Government is working. He mentioned a number of examples of Norwegian companies winning contracts again in strong competition with foreign players. This can contribute to increased employment. Norwegian companies now have lower costs as interest rates have fallen, the krone price has been reduced and taxes have been reduced – all as a result of a deliberate government policy. There are examples of reinvestment, including in the fisheries sector. The fissure sheet has an article entitled ‘The sky is shining for the Finnmark industry’. Here, both business operators and SND look more optimistic about the future situation in the fishing industry. In a crisis, for example, Hasvik are the actors who wish to start new activity in competition with each other. Aurora Salmon has risen from the bankruptcy of Dafjord Laks, and 40 employees can see a brighter future facing. These are just a few examples that prove that the government's policy is working. What does not work is the Labour Party's option. Increased taxes on business do not contribute to improving competitiveness and do not create any more employees. I noticed that a line from the representative, Sanner, to the representative, Brustad earlier today would not answer how increased taxes and charges for business would help to reduce unemployment. Another thing about the Retoric of the Workers' Party, which I just don't understand, is that you talk about tax breaks for those who have the most. And then I interpret it as criticizing tax laws for business. The problem is, of course, that business has too little income, which in turn leads to bankruptcy and increased unemployment. How, then, can it be said that tax relief is given to those who have the most? The government’s tax regime has undoubtedly contributed to the narrow growth of unemployment in Norway compared with other countries. Only the Finnish economy reduces its costs by about 120 million. kr this year as a result of reduced taxes and duties. Taxes on value creation are also important to attract new capital into Norwegian enterprises. In particular, this is important and true when the international economic cycle is negative. We see an increasing willingness to invest in Norwegian industry, as I mentioned earlier in my article. Differentiated employer charges have also been a major and important theme in the last six months. The situation that has arisen with regard to ESA is regrettable, as the scheme is very effective as a district policy instrument. I want to reward the Government for its efforts to ensure that the action zone still has a zero employer’s fee and for ensuring that no region loses its weight on the forced conversion. What I react strongly to is the Workers' Party's driving in this matter. If you are to gamble, as Jens Stoltenberg signals, you are also at risk of the zero zone as the action zone for Nord-Troms and Finnmark containers. The most tragic thing about this is that one of the main swordsmen of the Workers' Party in this case is the Finnmark representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen. By his doing, he is at risk of 14.1 pst. increased the employer’s fee in its own country through the Workers’ Party’s gambling. Unemployment in the country and especially on the coast is a challenge Right is taking it seriously. In the right, the government will continue a policy that keeps interest rates down and corporate taxes at an acceptable level. Only by reducing costs for Norwegian enterprises can an increase in employment be ensured. There is no better long-term solution, which I am disappointed that the Workers' Party does not take inwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e836	Two years ago, on 15 November 2001, it was a joyous announcement that was posted on the Internet pages of the Young Right League. That's what it said: «The size has long worn out men over 50 years. Not anymore. Now the youth is about to take over the boat. This autumn, the Right 9 new feathers were added to the Stortinget for less than 30 years. The Lion Hill Young Right is a new concept in political Norway.’ Half-way through the ageing period, it is time to prepare accounts for the government's youth policy. In addition to all these Young Right Representatives, the leader of the KRFU has now also taken the seat of the Stortinget. However, for young people in Norway, the outcome of the Right Policy over these two years has been a series of serious cuts, which show that there has been as much wear and tear with the Right People under 30 years of age as with them over 50. I can mention a few cuts. The free school books introduced in secondary schools under the Government of the Workers' Party have been removed. There has been almost full stop in the construction of youth rentals. The freecard limit has not been increased. It's stuck on a bomb for $23,400. Students' loans and scholarships were not regulated after last year's price increase. However, such direct cuts are not the most severe. For example, cutbacks in the SFO have hit many young dependants hard, and the lack of funding for municipalities means that young people’s school days are marked by far too little resources. In addition, the government’s fiscal policy does not hit youth, because most young people have little income and no wealth or any dividend. The vast majority of young people are among those who win at least on a tax haven policy. In all cases, young people have to pay their share of the bill for the same tax havens when tax relief policies result in increased self-esteem in services of which young people are often the most frequent users. The most serious challenge now is the increase in unemployment among young people. The number of people under the age of 30 with more than four years of education has increased by 44 pst. in one year. There are now more than 14,000 unemployed between 20 and 24 years of age, an increase of 27 pst. since September 2002. The government's answer to this is to sit still and hope that the market itself will do the job. However, what is needed now is targeted action against youth unemployment. We know that if youth unemployment breaks down, those affected, even over time, are at risk of being lost in the labour market because early-stage unemployment deprives people of the necessary experience and seniority. The government's only response to this has been to say no to introduce a youth guarantee that would precisely ensure the 20-24-year-old group improved access to the labour market. Simple but effective political action could have been taken to reverse the bias between the generations that the Co-operation Government has contributed to the last few years. I want to start here by mentioning some areas that SV will fight for the rest of this grossing-up period. In order to improve the economic situation of young people, we will increase the free-card limit, so that monks — a handshake not least to all young people who work part-time, have summer jobs, etc. In order to ensure the right of young people to free education, we want to introduce a school boxing grant that will make school books free of charge in high school. In order to make the entrance ticket to the housing market more affordable, we want to pursue a social housing policy specifically aimed at young people. And in order to stop the dismissals of young teachers and get speedy recruitment of newly educated teachers, we will bet on the school and the funding of it in the budgets. In order to combat youth unemployment, SV will present a proposal to make it easier for young people to set up their own jobs. Today, very many young people have many good ideas. We see student businesses flourishing around the country, but they lack two things. They lack capital that can help to realize these ideas and make them jobs, and they lack advice. We want the public to go in here and play a role, preferably through funds that can go in with loan capital and advice. An example of this could be the three municipalities Tinn, Vinje and Tokke, which, in a split layer between municipalities, county councils and SND, have established a youth SND. The result has been the creation of 90 new jobs in these municipalities for young people aged 20–35 years. And that is an example of the need for policy measures to reduce unemployment. Low interest rates and low exchange rates provide framework conditions, but without a deliberate policy to stimulate, to create and to create ideas and give them life, the results will also be absent. And it's serious for a lot of young people in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e860	Nearly 110 000 people are currently unemployed. Apart from the fact that there is a feeling for the individual, this is a very bad social economy. Strong and active labour market policies are therefore essential. The impact of regular action sites has been analysed by the Statistical Centre in 2001. 43 pst. of the participants in labour market measures were at work six months after the end of the action, while only 27 pst. by those who had not taken action had been employed. This shows that labour market measures are an important tool. It is also important that the number of available labour market measures is proportionate to the number of unemployed. The government's inadequate and comprehensive industrial and industrial policies have led to the removal of tens of thousands of industrial workplaces. Companies that have been awarded industrial contracts subject to industrial activity – I am thinking of the power plant contracts – cannot sell away power in violation of the principle of operating on-site industry. I refer here to the exchange of lines between the undersigned and the Minister of Industry earlier today, and it turns out that the Government has no policy whatsoever in this area. I pointed especially to Høyanger and Årdal, but also to other major industrial sites. This is a serious threat to the settlement of our municipalities. Industrial workplaces are about viable districts, about the basis of service provision, a versatile business and municipal economy. In the 2003 state budget, the Labour Party proposed a wide range of measures that would, individually and collectively, contribute to lower unemployment. Most of these were voted down by the Government and the Advance Party. But we'll never give in. We will continue to propose solutions and measures to reduce unemployment. In our revised national budget, the Labour Party proposed to spend SEK 1.2 billion on a package of measures to ensure innovation and value creation in business and to qualify the unemployed for job vacancies. The government, with the Advance Party, is right in the budgets of the SND. I think that is wrong. SND contributes to research and development. SND contributes to innovation and bud shooting. That is why the Workers' Party has strengthened SND in its alternative budgets. We cannot have exceptional environmental requirements that place the whole export industry in a very difficult situation. The Labour Party has proposed agreements with industry in many areas. Among other things, we removed the sulphur tax in 2001 in agreement with the industry. Agreements with industry have already produced results. The agreement between the aluminium industry and the Ministry of Environmental Protection has reduced the CO2 equivalent of 2 million tonnes from 1990 to 2000. The working party has demonstrated, through the Climate Communication, that we do not want to create a framework that worsens the competitiveness of the process industry. In energy policy, the Government is taking refuge in order to use our natural resources for innovation and new jobs. This prevents a clear and offensive policy of using natural gas in Norway for new industrialisation, transport and heating purposes. We need to ensure a stable supply of electricity, for example: to the Norwegian process industry. In view of the energy situation now emerging in Norway, it is important that we start building gas power plants based on natural gas. In this context, it is also important that we start developing pollution-free gas power plants immediately, and we want to step up research in this field as soon as possible. Before full-scale gas power plants can be developed, it is necessary to test out the technology in pilot plants and it costs money. In order to move forward, it is necessary to take a step out of the research laboratory and build something that we can test out in practice. Government and collapse — and in particular the Government that owns natural power — must join the power industry in a fissure layer in order to finance a pilot project for CO2-free gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e886	Prime Minister Bondevik highlighted the value base of the Cooperative Government in his contribution earlier today, a value base based on the Christian and humanist cultural heritage, with respect and freedom for individuals and the value of personal responsibility. That's what makes this coalition government so special; the value base and the big and important lines are the same for all the parties. And that is precisely why it must be difficult for the opposition to emerge with a comprehensive alternative policy, which must not only bring together a majority but also deliver results. A «sustainable policy» called Oddvard Nilsen Government's policy. Yeah, that's exactly what this is about. Only the policy of the Cooperative Government, which is based on a common value base, is sustainable in this process. And maybe it's just the certainty of this that has completely taken the edge of the opposition's debate today. For what do we experience? Well, a party leader from the Workers' Party who uses three-quarters of his post to talk about naturalities in relation to government constellations and supporting theories, and for the rest of his time he talks about the EU largely. Then today's no queens spin on this without adding anything new, other than confirming once again that a government base between these three is to consider a dense minefield. And here it's not small human resources that we're talking about. And then it's Sylvia Brustad, the First Lady of the Workers' Party, at least today, who once again demands the response of alternate statesmen to the same and different – this time about Statoil's business operations, the last about the Snow White expansion – and in the almost playback style ask why not the Government builds gas power plants. She then sat knowingly in the government that part-privatized Statoil, with the ability to control this now giving magnificence and government. The same government also decided to grant concession to gas power stations, three gas power stations which otherwise also support the Cooperative Government. But the interesting thing is, why didn't she do anything about the progress and realization at that time? Of course, because the exact same market conditions now apply: today's electricity prices are not profitable. At all: the opposition appears to be tame and without a clear policy and alternative policy. For most people, it must be reasonably clear that the co-operation government wants something, and gets something more. I find that long-term and targeted policies are slow, but surely in the process of getting our economy and optimism back into business. A theme left as a punchline from the opposition is unemployment. And we're going to listen to the Workers' Party when it comes to unemployment, because they know a little bit about this. After Gro Harlem Brundtland took over government responsibility at the end of the 1980s, unemployment rose to almost twice what we see today. Nevertheless, the Labour Party is standing today and prescribes the same useless medicine as at the time: More action! More support! It is a human right to have work, not least for the sake of self-worth and the feeling of contributing to the community. But it's not the same thing to go to measures, which is the Labour Party's answer. No, policy must provide a basis for optimism and belief in the future of businesses and society. Only then can lasting jobs be created. Let's not go into the same trap as the Workers' Party did, and believe that state action and governance solve this. This is just analgesic medicine, and it cures that knows nothing. No, it's healing drugs we need, and they're called framework conditions and competitiveness. Finally, it is not new that youth unemployment is highest in the autumn, after completion of education and summer holidays. However, all experience shows that 70 pst. of which work in 12 weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e915	The Prime Minister today presented the Government's policy under the heading: Value anchoring and renewal. This is a headline we in the Christian People's Party recognize ourselves in. Value anchoring is necessary in order to protect and further develop the fundamental institutions of society. The family is such a fundamental institution. In the family, the education of children, in the family is created identity and belonging, and in the family there is social economic security for young and old. The family is short and well the basic social unity of our society. Stable and safe family relationships, and vice versa, have ring-effects both within and outside the family. The challenges facing the family today must be met in an offensive way. The family message provided by the Government does. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to take care of the children first, and to support a commitment to living together. The challenges are many in family policy. Many children experience the breakup between their parents as very dramatic and unsafe. Many parents struggle with the time between work and care. Unemployment and non-income create material uncertainty for several families. Young people want to get an appropriate home without becoming debt slaves. In many societies there are conflicts around division of labour and community, and we have many hidden victims of drug abuse, violence and abuse from the nearest. Our challenge in family policy is to help the family work to find good solutions, including: these challenges. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to increase the freedom of choice in the care of your own children. We have therefore been a champion of cash support for the families of young children. We have also been eager for full child care coverage as needed, and at an affordable price. We are pleased with the broad agreement on the kindergarten policy we got this year, and kindergarten development is task number one in many municipalities in the coming years. The Christian People's Party will also grant new rights to fathers. It is important to increase the efforts of fathers in caring and educational work with their own children. Increased use of today’s parental quota and extended papacy is an important tool to achieve this. We know that fathers who get close contact with their children at an early age will also become more involved in the child’s growth later on. This will also have ring-effects in relation to the division of labour between mothers and fathers, thus contributing to increased equality. The most important thing we can do in gender equality is to better facilitate men's efforts in caring for their own children. For the Christian People's Party, therefore, it is very important to extend the papacy, and to provide fathers with their own basis for earning such a leave. The Christian People's Party wants to prevent breakups and conflicts around parental rights for children. For us, parental responsibility for parents living together is a matter of course. A responsible parent is not limited in time. That is why the Government's commitment to a life course is very commendable, and the family communication proposal for such offers to all first-time parents thinks we can help in a lot of life. I have registered that representatives from the Swedish Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party call for parents to enter into legal agreements on parental responsibility and care for the children in the event of a broken life. I see the good intention of resolving such issues in a time of low conflict, but to me it still becomes a paradox that we should focus on the breakup of life in a situation where we should rather be more focused on how to build and develop a commitment and sustainable life for the benefit of the child. Realism is a good thing, but we must not let serial society control politics. Domestic violence is not a private matter. The physical and mental consequences for those who are subjected to violence and abuse are great, and family violence is a serious crime problem. The Christian People's Party will contribute to preventing violence through good and predictable financial support to crisis centres, family protection offices and sensory programmes. Men must be encouraged to distance themselves from violence and culture of violence. The Christian People's Party will increase the commitment to training measures in the police, courts, school sector and health services, and we will provide information on the recently improved system of restraining visits and on the possibility of receiving a violent alarm. Many in today's debate have been busy pushing the Christian People's Party to cooperate with them. An invitation seems far more tempting than a press. For me, the most important thing is what we work together on. The parties that will cooperate with the Christian People's Party in family policy will score high!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e938	Annually, poor transport services cost business and the population huge sums — in the form of high transport costs and thus poor profits for business and in the form of high costs for those who have to transport the children to the various training courses or exercises. A large number of people are killed every year in traffic. In addition, very many people are badly damaged and tied to a wheelchair for the rest of their lives. Many of these accidents are unnecessary and are due to the fact that the majority of Stortingen have refused to recognise the sharp increase in traffic that has occurred over the years. Instead of building an acceptable road system, the majority of Stortinget has pushed more and more cars into an already detonated road system, with subsequent increases in traffic accidents – affecting both those who are injured and the many relatives who have to live with grief. For the majority of the Stortinget, the car has always been viewed as a problem and as a necessary evil in society. This has been reflected not only in the lack of investment in roads and their maintenance, but also in the charging policy, where larger and safer cars – suitable for family use – are practically not possible to buy for a normal family. Business also suffers from this setting. We saw that in the last budget, where some trucks – which businesses need, but which were obviously too comfortable for the Government – got an increase of 100 pst. For the Advance Party, this is an unnatural way of approaching the car and its use. For the Advancement Party, the passenger car is a good one that gives the population the opportunity to experience the country, visit relatives and friends, participate in social life and develop business so that growth can arise. The economy is completely dependent on the car/lorry for products to be placed on the market and for competition to function in a reasonable way. Transport is the lifeblood of business in this country. The cheaper the transport, the better the market will work – with lower prices for the consumer and higher profits for the business community. It is therefore important to focus on a good provision of transport for the population. In order to achieve this goal, a large-scale effort must be made to provide good transport services, and this effort must be directed primarily towards road construction. In a long-term country such as Norway — with a scattered population — the car/lorry is undoubtedly the most suitable for the transport of persons and goods. Unfortunately, the majority on Stortinget sees it differently. This has led to a stagnation in the economic development of business, especially for the part of business that is far from the market. This has led to many unnecessary and tragic deaths and many heavy traffic damage. The Progress Party therefore asks the Government to determine the savings that can be achieved in terms of better competitive conditions for business and saved lives and traffic damage by expanding the main road network to the four-field motorway with a mid-range separation on routes with more than 10 000 ÅDT and the two-field motorway standard on the other main road network. For the Advancement Party, it is important to be in the forefront of providing a good transport offer, and not as it is now, that everything comes after – more decades later. The road manager says it can take 60 years before we get an acceptable standard on the main road network. It is unacceptable and represents a cost both for industry and for the population that is totally unacceptable to the Progress Party. It should be for the other parties as well. In dealing with the National Transport Plan for Spring, the Transport Committee has visited most of the counties and heard the views of both public and private bodies. One common denominator for each state is the need for road construction. In particular, the business community is concerned about this. Time and time again, it was established that the shipping costs had to be reduced if you were still to survive the competition. It is not useful to bring in new toll projects, as this does not reduce freight costs — rather, on the contrary. Today, the statement is that road maintenance has a lag of several billion kroner. The aim is not to further increase the follow-up. To achieve this goal, the Government has cut down on road investments, making the situation even worse, with 60 years of waiting to get only the main route network in acceptable condition. If Stortinget had done his job for the last 20–30 years, instead of discussing the armod in road construction, we could have discussed the ticket price for the ferries, so that the prices for both the inhabitants and the industry could have been reduced. But the problem today is unfortunately quite different. This government is failing in all ways in the field of transport. The promise in the Sem declaration was an increase of 600 million. kr per. year in relation to the national transport plan. The result so far has been a reduction of approximately the same amount each year. It is not a forward-looking transport policy. It's going with the back first into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e969	Sometimes when I hear people in the Christian People's Party talk about family politics, I get a feeling that they should wish we were still living in the 1950s, and that they dream of a society where mother is home and bakes balls, while father goes to work. Now I don't mind that mother can bake balls, and there was a lot that was fine in the 1950s, but fortunately we've gotten further into society in many ways than then, among other things. in the case of equality. Fortunately, Prime Minister Bondevik said in his speech today that the Government will pursue a family policy based on gender equality, and that more will be at work. The debate on family policy has largely concerned the early childhood phase: the extension of maternity leave, cash support and kindergartens. That we have extended the maternity leave and reserved some for father is very important, and we should continue that job. The fact that Stortinget has managed to gather around a nursery settlement where we both need to ensure full coverage and a maximum price is also very good. Cheaper kindergartens for anyone who wants them are important for families with children to have a safer and better everyday life. But childhood is not over when the children get six years old and end up in kindergarten. A good family policy is therefore also about parents who have school-related children and who want a school-based leisure system to feel secure that their children have a good offer before and after school. Unfortunately, that is not the situation for everyone today. Both the Bondevik I Government and the Bondevik II Government have made dramatic cuts in the allocations to the SFO – in cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party. The Labour Party managed to correct the worst cuts to the Bondevik I government, but the Bondevik II government, in cooperation with the Progress Party, has made new cuts, and now the allocation is halved compared to 2001. The result we see in the municipalities now. In many places, it is not possible to provide a school leisure scheme with the quality you want, and many municipalities increase parental pay. This is a result of a wild policy. This is a result of the fact that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People’s Party – or at least many in these parties – have ideological barriers to the school leisure arrangements. The government says it will work for more quality in primary school. The quality selection, which was shut down by the Stoltenberg administration, has recently submitted its setting. The Workers' Party wants to strengthen the teaching of the small school stage. At the same time, we will see the strengthening of the school in the context of strengthening the school leisure system. There's gonna be room for play in school. The Labour Party wants a school that values aesthetic competence, which sees the value of music, of culture, of children learning through creativity. I therefore hope that not the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party will end up strengthening only the theoretical subjects in school. I hope the government can put away what's ideologically opposed to the SFO, and rather open that yes, maybe it can be OK with an hour or two with free SFO in the middle of the day. Maybe it'll be important in many schools with a few hours to play, for physical activity, for homework. And maybe the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party will see that a good family policy does not limit itself to a policy aimed at families with children up to six years old, and that the bet on kindergartens is very important, but not enough. The Labour Party wants to strengthen primary school, and we want to strengthen the school leisure system, not because we want to force children to be in school all day, but because we want more freedom of choice for example. single parents working and to families where both adults are working. We want them to feel secure for their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e993	The debate on the persuasion is, in fact, the debate on the opposition. What was supposed to be the golden hour of the opposition to show how it would solve different challenges that obviously feel society is facing, has instead become hours of complaining without any political orientation or solution orientation of any kind. In my opinion, there are two possible reasons for this. Firstly, there are optimism and brighter times in Norway. The industry is getting contracts back. Anti- bullying campaigns at school yield results, fewer plagues, and fewer bullies. And the school is undergoing a freedom reform with a focus on real freedom of choice for all, knowledge of the focus and priority of the basic subject, to mention something. This shows that the government's policy has begun to work. When Aker Verdal or SAS get big contracts and show optimism, they are met by an opposition that paints the situation black and closes the eyes of the points of light that actually exist. The second reason is this: the opposition has nothing to report, either individually or collectively. The working party is holding a rough course in all directions. The Socialist Left Party will give freedom to what politicians like, but will virtually prohibit everything else. The Progress Party shall not decide whether it will be the new Workers' Party or a bourgeois Party. And the Center Party hasn't really thought so many new thoughts in the last ten years, they've made navel vision into their ideology. Overall, it's actually even worse. They are breaking up in school policy, they are breaking up in security policy, in European policy and in industrial policy, to mention something. If the government's policy is as bad as the opposition's black paint should be, the opposition should present an alternative policy. Where the Government has invested resources in creating and securing jobs through tight budgets that have pushed interest rates down, the Workers' Party will focus resources on keeping people on action. Not one manager I have heard a statement has said that there are tough times because there is a lack of labour market measures. Where the Government has launched a reform of freedom for the school, with emphasis on knowledge and freedom of choice for all, the Socialist Left will have a centralized anarchy of freedom in school, with freedom of choice only for the few and for the rich. Policy is about finding consensus along values and setting some goals to achieve them. Freedom, responsibility and diversity are such values, and the ability to set policy boundaries is such a goal. A policy that is great, but weak, is not capable of giving people freedom. Policies must be small, but strong in the key areas in order to base freedom, responsibility and diversity on policies. This consensus has been found on the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left in the Cooperation Government. Such a consensus is not the parties on the socialist side in the vicinity of, for what values or for what kind of policy are they agreed on? Does the Workers' Party support the old socialist wing of the Socialist Left Party, as stated by Socialist Youth, to abolish private ownership of the means of production, to expel Norway from NATO and to ban paid work? I have heard that the representative Lightbakken is concerned about youth unemployment, so it is the same Lightbaken who confesses to a principle programme that prohibits wage work, and it will not, with respect to reporting, be very many jobs by it, either for young people or for the elderly. Does both the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party believe that it would be better for Norwegian businesses and Norwegian jobs to drop the tax relief of the Government at NOK 20 billion? My conclusion is that the socialist opposition neither individually nor collectively has an alternative policy they want to promote. Socialist Left Party and Kristin Halvorsen even get angry that opinion-adversaries quote their program, and dismiss the quotations as a lie. Because there is a lack of a policy opposition will acknowledge, neither did this debate become the golden hour of the opposition. The results of the government's policy are beginning to come. This is not the time to experiment with the economy, nor is it the time to turn the clock back to the 1970s and remove the freedom, responsibility and diversity. This is not the time to twist politics in the socialist direction. This is the time to continue the initial improvement in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1008	The last post from the Right clearly shows that we have a good government that doesn't care about those who are struggling in the world's richest country. It is a core value issue that SV is concerned about, and that I record that neither the Right nor the Government has put at the top of their agenda. Fair distribution is a core value, but what characterises Norway today? We are the world's richest country, but we have a minority — a small minority — in Norway that is becoming poorer and poorer, and we have a strong increase in unemployment. So what's the answer to this? Well, the answer to this from the Government and from the Right is to take even more from the children, the sick and the unemployed and give even more to those who already have enough. The reason why they're doing this, they say, is because they're creating jobs. But there's no connection. They are unable to demonstrate a single relationship between, for example: tax-free dividends on shares and the creation of more jobs. On the contrary, all the comparisons show that this is money that goes directly to the private consumption of the wealthiest, who don't need it. When you cut into social security for the unemployed, you also cut into private consumption for those who have the least. So the value creation based on private consumption for those who are poor would be just as important for the Norwegian economy as the private consumption for those who have the most, and who don't need it at all. When Prime Minister Bondevik has talked about values, he has often talked about the poor and said that no one should live in poverty. Then he has let the Right Councils go free of social welfare schemes and increased the excesses by a total of NOK 2 billion, focused on taking money from those who can't afford it. We even miss from this government a policy that makes us in rich Norway no longer have people who don't have a home. We have a prime minister who comes from the party that says that they are the family and care party, who can still sit and see that there are people in rich Norway who don't have a place to live, who don't know where to deal with their family, for example. People who pile up on their legs after they've been through a drug withdrawal, or who come out after they've done prison sentences. Does the Prime Minister think that there will be more family values and less crime of such a policy? And does the Prime Minister think that business is asking for more poverty? I don't think so. SV is committed to industrial policy, which is in a much stronger focus on school, education, research and also grants to business, which enables us to create new jobs that are not yet created. The government's fiscal policy is to give the most to those who are already doing well. It's a deep disagreement. In one area, the government has failed completely, including for business. This is the differentiated employer’s fee, which was found illegal as early as 1999. Then SV said we should get the options right away, get the consequences on the table. A total pile voted no, unfortunately. So now this government, which says they're so entrepreneurial, has not even bothered to make high-level political contact, either in the EU or in EFTA, to find solutions for business in the districts. Not even a political initiative to make sure that we can keep the scheme until a new agreement is in place is settled. It is quite outrageous that a government that is an EU and EEA member does not understand the legislation from which they say they are followers, nor does it want to find solutions that would ensure jobs. It may be ugly to speculate, but it seems like the government thinks it's okay that we don't have such good arrangements in place, that we can carry on with a general tax bill. That's good right-wing policy, but it's very bad business policy. There is a poor response to poverty, and it is a miserable environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1023	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1026	For the Workers' Party, the fight against unemployment is job no. 1st@item: inlistbox Strangely enough, the SV manager did not mention unemployment with a word in his main post today. This battle must be waged on two fronts. New jobs need to be created, and we need to secure those we have. We must have a strong Aetat that can guide and qualify the unemployed for the job vacancies. In particular, there is a need to provide young people, disabled people and immigrants with an offer. Having a sufficient number of labour market measures is therefore crucial for our success, and it is also a significant contribution to successful integration policies. The Labour Party believes that today there are too few places of action in relation to the large number of unemployed, but in spring SV joined the government parties, and therefore against our proposal, which would have given 3,000–4,000 more unemployed an offer of qualification. Does it not see the importance of action places for the unemployed in general and for vulnerable groups in the labour market in particular, or is SV changing its policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1033	I think the representative Signe Eye has forgotten to bring an important treatment in the Stortinget, namely the treatment of the revised national budget. The SV submitted proposals that would have increased the level of action above the level at which the representative Eye claims that SV has not participated. So there's probably a memory, I think, but the Labour Party and SV agree that labour market measures are necessary, because we know that they work, and because they take care of the skills of those who are unemployed. Freedom does the opposite. So to how much weight we put on this. The party leader, Kristin Halvorsen, said quite a lot about industrial policy, about job creation, and that is also important. This is why EN also made a number of proposals in spring that would have made sure that people actually got to work, as well as the increase in labour market measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1040	The Socialist Left Party spent a lot of time in the election campaign talking about local democracy. That's kind of surprising. For the Socialist Left, there is talk of local democracy, but there are votes in favour of state minimum requirements and designation. The lot has even had its own Document No. Eight proposals on state minimum standards at school. It was a proposal which was supported by very few or none of those who were to be consulted in the Education Committee. In addition, the lot will have State minimum requirements in care for the elderly and ear tags for all good purposes, such as: music schools and clay schools. This new rhetoric about local democracy cannot be an overdose of tran, but a deliberate deception. The Socialist Left Party knows very well that when the Stortinget grants directly to municipal schemes, it is at the expense of municipal decisions. When the Left Party fights for state minimum requirements, the Party knows that it is at the expense of the same local self-government. Why is the Socialist Left Party mistaken? Is it because the party is afraid to be taken for what it is, that is, an old-socialist party that is too big a strong state, which, in addition to much else, is at the expense of local self-government?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1047	Freedom for municipalities and freedom for individuals depend on the coherence of expenditure and income. SV's main contribution to freedom for municipalities is to give municipalities responsibility for a greater proportion of the total social burden, unbound. We believe that the job to be done by the municipal sector for schools, kindergartens, care for the elderly and children, is so important that it is right for society to prioritise this more than what the Government does. So the government makes a number that it is important to get rid of the earmarked grants that would ensure that crisis centres are not shut down or that highly disabled people will receive assistance that they can decide on. I listened to the Prime Minister today, who just stressed the freedom and right of disabled people to maritime regulation, and who said that the fight against violence was important. But obviously it is more important for the Right to remove these ear-marked grants, so that we risk the disabled sitting there without help, and the crisis centres being shut down. It's interesting to notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1054	I think the last two posts have been very interesting. First the youth in the Right, with Ine Marie Eriksen, who dunks on the left side of Norwegian politics, and then in particular SV. Then Andersen's representative comes up afterwards and dunks on the government, and especially on the right. We know that Bondevik has almost invited SV in case there should be a budget settlement for the autumn, and we know that the head of SV has not rejected it. That is why I think it is interesting, and I would like to challenge the representative Andersen: if there were to be a situation in which SV would negotiate the budget with the Government, where would the demands of SV be to be able to support a budgetary settlement with the government parties at all? Although we know that SV has been very close to the government parties in both school and industrial policy during this period, I know that it is going to be difficult. I would like to challenge the representative, Andersen, whether it would be in the 10 billion or 20 billion class so that SV could possibly make a settlement with the Bondevik government in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1062	For SV, it is most important to get through because what we think is most important. We want a stronger bet in schools than the government has put forward, and what we have seen from some of the last governments. We want a policy of distribution that takes into account those who have the least, a much stronger policy of distribution than what we have today. We want an environmental policy that takes environmental considerations first. We're going to have strong demands in these areas. I can assure the representative, Sandberg, of that. For SV, it's not right to say that we don't want to be part of that debate. If, for example: The progress party was supposed to run from the responsibility of the government that they have deployed, and we should be able to get a negotiating result with the government that would ensure a better school, which appears in every municipality around the country and in every school, or that we should get a solution that made it less poor in this country, and of course we should be involved in discussing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1069	The cord shift is over. The representative, Mr Hagen, has asked for the floor to make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1074	This morning, on behalf of the Progress Party, I presented 16 concrete proposals. At the request of the government parties, we have made minor adjustments, or minor changes, to some of these proposals. They will be distributed in the seats of the representatives, I have been informed. It concerns proposal No. 2 — Proposal No (4) Proposal No. (5) Proposal No. 9 — Proposal No 12 and proposal No. 14th @item: inlistbox I would like to make the Storting aware that here are the small changes that have been made, and so they will be distributed before voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1079	In general, most people have it very well here in the country. It's not just the United Nations that thinks it does. One area where we have a high international score is the area of unemployment. We simply have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, and so we could hit our chests and say it's good. But is that so? Is the fight against unemployment successful when about 110,000 people around our country are out of work? No, of course he's not. Now we've just had an election campaign where, unfortunately, unemployment was not the big issue. However, there is no lack of beautiful words from the government party that the trend should now be reversed. The Trontals are also asking for it, but this will reveal the government only now, after two years in government and an increase in the unemployment rate of 56 pst. in the same period! In the election campaign, the Prime Minister paired this challenge by referring to previous workers' party governments and that there was a high unemployment rate at the time. Yeah, that's right, that's right. But a government dating from the Labour Party actually did something about the serious situation. To go all the way back to the 1970s, the Workers' Party government took several good steps to reduce unemployment. Most people probably think of the so-called Kleppe packages. These were measures to stimulate employment, both public and private, and thus to stop galloping unemployment before high unemployment persisted. A fast-moving investment, accelerated expansions, launching larger projects and being offensive in district policy. There were probably missing and errors in this too, but one was able to keep unemployment at a much lower level than in the rest of Europe. In a country where much remains to be done, it is an extreme form of waste to leave healthy, up-to-date and unemployed people free. One of the worst things that can happen to a willing worker is to lose a job or not to get a job. Most people want to get to work as soon as they can. Myths and prejudices that claim that the unemployed can get a job if they do not. I've met many people who have ended up in the unemployment line. They don't have it easy. They are both signed, given and see no lighting. They have believed that the interest rate decline, the Swedish dollar, politicians or Aetat can provide them with work. I get very tired when I see that people who want to both work can work and should work, not get a job. The Government Party has so far threatened that market forces are to be remedied. And the feeling of optimism that one has experienced in this debate! Only interest rates will be lower and the dollar price will be weaker, the second will be self-contained. Many suggest that it's not that simple. This isn't just about economics. This is not just about the market, business, government budget and business cycle. This is also about the fact that the government and the majority of the population have a responsibility. It's about having to override market forces when these diffuse control tools run in the wrong direction. This is about man and solidarity. I think that many laughs and smiles of Per Kleppe's packages, but history tells us that it's just countercyclical policy we need. The working party is always committed to such measures in the event of unemployment. It also has our alternative budget drill features of it. Our main concern at next year's budget is the fight against unemployment. ‘The absence of work shall be combated on a broad front’, reads in the Common Era. Many of us are excited about what's in this formulation. The submission of the State budget in two days might give us the answer. In any case, I have great expectations after today's debate that the Government, in its submission to the State budget, shows great action in the fight against the increasing unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1102	As usual, the Minister of Industry’s efforts in the debate today consisted in commending the government’s policy, which has contributed to lower interest rates and weaker crowns. Of course, the reduction in interest rates and the weakening of the crown are very important for Norwegian business. But strictly speaking, the job done in this area does not require a Minister of Economic Affairs to do. Per-Kristian Foss has an unshakable belief in the blessing of business neutrality and the need for a tight fiscal policy in any conceivable situation, and he has also made sure to implement this policy with the Minister of Industry in mind. What the Minister of Industry has contributed to this government in terms of industrial policy measures is more uncertain as long as the government's policy is not to have any industrial policy. He should therefore have listened carefully to something that his boss said in the debate today. The Prime Minister said: « In 1973 Norway stood at the entrance to the oil age. The production value of oil and gas was NOK 250 million; now it is around NOK 250 billion." Knowledge-rich people, forward-looking politicians, determined efforts and a strong state commitment have brought us to where we are today in this sector. This has not come about by itself and would not have happened to this government's business-neutral policy. History is, in fact, full of examples of this kind of target-conscious commitment, not least of which politicians have played a central role, has produced results. The centre party also believes that such targeted efforts by the authorities must be the basis for the development of the business life of the future: an industrial policy based on the natural advantage we have within, for example: marine sector, maritime sector, energy and travel. Heavy investment in research, competence, the development of a modern infrastructure and different forms of capital supply must be driving forces in the development of our future jobs. What we put in today's research effort will produce results in terms of hard-to-earth jobs only in 10 to 20 years' time. That's why it has to be invested now. Within e.g. Whereas it is necessary to invest in the development of high technology in production, biotechnology-based resource utilisation, environmentally friendly and quality-promoting fishing methods, or in the development of good solutions for supplying fresh fish when requested by the customer; It should be a very central task for the authorities to engage heavily in. This sector is likely to be our most important sector in the future. But here too, unfortunately, we are experiencing a passivity on the part of the Government, not only in relation to a necessary effort on the long-term measures, but also in relation to the problems the industry is facing today. The coast is in a crisis. We see that fishing communities are at risk of destruction. Breeding industry wears down. The royal crab is becoming an ever-increasing problem in Finnmark. The government’s response to these coastal challenges is to allocate 60 new farming concessions and reduce the number of fishermen instead of allowing free fishing of king crabs and significantly increasing quotas on marine mammals. It is necessary to work both short-term and long-term in order to achieve industrial policy objectives. An example of such short-term measures that the Government should have put in place — and to which the Central Party wishes to come back in connection with the treatment of the budget in the autumn — is to set up the rules of leave in such a way that companies can retain the competences that employees represent, for example. in the shipbuilding industry, not as the Government does, to force companies to terminate employees with valuable skills due to short-term lack of jobs. The SND must be provided with sufficient resources to assist in financing the necessary investments and must be further invested in the business environment concept. Tax incentives need to be developed in areas other than research to ensure that a maximum share of returns goes to investment in new industrial activities. Infrastructure appropriations need to be increased — for roads, ports, railways and not least for broadband. The central party is convinced that the business neutrality of this government is a misguided policy for Norway. It has not been given at all that unilateral tax reliefs financed by cut-offs in commercial instruments benefit the long-term business environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1132	«Norwegian politicians create suffocation» is the headline in the column of the Evening Post today – on an article by Thorbjørn Jagland. It is a readable article, but in my opinion the title is not entirely accurate. What Jagland points to is the phenomenon that power and responsibility in today's Norwegian system show clear signs of separation. He rightly points out that parliamentaryism presupposes that power and responsibility are followed up, that it is the opposition's duty in parliamentarianism to make sure that there is a credible government option at all times. Instead, we have seen a clear trend in recent years, as Ichland correctly describes it, that one chooses the shortest path: to create random majority constellations between opposition parties that really disagree on most things – for one purpose: to defeat the Government. Thorbjørn Jagland writes: ‘The Party of Frontiers has been able, by means of oil money, to use the remainder of the opposition to undermine the Government of the Party.’ Among the parties Jagland doesn't mention by name, which has let itself be used, is his own party. In the time of the central government, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party went hand in hand to impose on the government the adventure called IT Fornebu. It has become relatively silent about the afterlife – for good reasons. During this period, there was a temptation to be part of a pediatric settlement that was actually opposed and that none of the parties would fully acknowledge. This is a problem if parliamentaryism as a state must survive in the future, but the problem lies primarily with the largest opposition party in this Chamber, which is the party with the longest government experience. If the Workers' Party had not been tempted to embark on what Jagland describes, the situation would not have been as it is. In the first part of today's treaty debate, we had a debate on Norwegian foreign policy. It went off pretty fast. But what you can see is that the majority option that the Workers' Party has announced that you will be attending and going in for the next major period, per year. Today consists of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. There will be a fragmented new form of government cooperation in Norway's history, namely government cooperation between three parties that are wildly dissenting about Norwegian security and foreign policy. We've had coalitions of governments that have had considerable disagreement about parts of the government's policy, but we've never experienced a coalition of governments that cracks at the most crucial point, namely in the pursuit of Norway's vital security and foreign policy interests. In a situation where the EU, as some will still mention as a project, is covering all European countries in commitment, mutual cooperation, two of the three future government parties will respond to this by further decoupling Norway and by indicating that Norway should go a different way. The centre party wants Norway to terminate the EEA Agreement immediately, as far as I have understood. SV wants you to cancel it, maybe with a little bit of a reflection time. SV wants Norway to withdraw from NATO. The centre party uses every opportunity to race with SV to take the place as the most vimsied party in this hall in terms of foreign and security policy. This is with respect not to report a credible government option, and it is amazing that the Workers' Party will at all taste it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1152	There is an interesting debate that is about to be rounded up during the evening. It's interesting to hear the different ones from the Government defend the throne and the government's political platform in relation to the reality that we all see in a somewhat different political light. As far as the justice sector is concerned, at least I perceive that this government has an ambition to contribute to reducing crime. My problem is to see what kind of way you're actually going to do it. There is talk of increased efforts on the police, while the fact is that the current government at the last two budgetary agreements has been forced by the Progress Party to increase the allocation of resources to the police. What are the consequences of the attitude of the Government foreshadowing? Well, unfortunately, there's an ever-increasing insecurity out there among the people most. It is a paradox to me that a government consisting of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, with its fundamental vision being constantly pointed out, and the Left, which has the Council of State, does not take any more into consideration the seriousness of this. It is also the case that I regard the census as a ‘crusade list’ of things that the government claims to have done. But what in the world does it help to have fine plans and visions if you don't follow it up financially? There has to be a context here, if not this will be a game for the gallery. People outside this house have problems getting to know each other when we debate matters that have to do with criminal policy. So the prime minister is standing here today saying that there's been some sort of reoccurrence crime. Yeah, you've done that, but it's not more than a minimum measure to my knowledge. You have now increased the famous competition from one and a half times to two times. So that's the level of ambition of this government. I would like the Minister of Justice to come to the Stortinget and say: we want to see a turnaround in which every criminal act is punished individually. If you commit one criminal act, you will be punished for it. If you commit ten criminal acts, you are punished for one, maybe two. This is part of creating renunciation, and it's part of creating a disparity between what those of us who are on the inside of this house, sees as fair, compared to what you see as fair on the outside. The challenges lie ahead. We have a line between the justice sector and the health system in relation to mentally ill people. Where is the ambition of the government parties there? These people are in a vacuum between these two sectors. They don't fit into prisons, and there's no room in psychiatry at all, which, once again, means that these people are going to be throwing balls in the system. In my opinion, the government has no ambitions to do anything about this – not at least for the time being. Another thing is the role of the police and the expectations of us on the Stortinget, and also of people. The police in Norway are very good. There are a lot of good people doing the best they can, but the framework conditions are, in my opinion, far on the way impossible in relation to expectations. So the government of the throne says, ‘Over 1200 posts have been redispatched in conjunction with the merger of several police districts and the development work carried out by the police as a whole. More than 400 annual works are released for redistribution to the public and operational services.» These positions I think people outside this house have trouble seeing. I think they're having trouble knowing each other in this. When they call and ask for help and are told that they have to call in office time, we don't have occasion, we're alone on guard and we don't have the opportunity to move out, there's a difference between the level of ambition of the Storting and the reality that most people are affected by. At least there was my wish for the government that you were more ambitious. We have a reconciliation queue that people have been in before today, which unfortunately is not being reduced. We have to have a change in relation to what we see as most important. So far, in my opinion, we have been very focused on the perpetrator and the role of the perpetrator. I hope that there will be a turn, where we take more account of the victim's situation. So individuals from the government today have been up and said something about the government being safe, the government is good, and you have a good policy. Maybe more in the government parties would take over the election result that was. Maybe you'd find out that there was a certain misunderstanding between what you think and what's real. Last but not least, it will be possible for this government to make something more significant in the justice sector. It lacks only political power.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1179	It has been recalled in the debate earlier today that Norway is the country of opportunity in terms of natural resources and industrial development. In addition, Norway has a unique position both in contributing internationally to the environment and development and to conflict resolution and peace. As one of the world's richest and best countries to live in, we have a unique opportunity to make an effort — not least because we are suspected to have our own economic or power-political motives for the effort. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government will follow its strong international commitment and actively support the central role of the United Nations. There is reason to congratulate the Government on a significant progress in the peace negotiations in Sudan after an expeditious effort in one of the bloodiest and longest wars in Africa. We also support the Government's offensive human rights policy, the continued stepping up of aid and further work on debt and fairer world trade. The policy pursued by the Government in the fight against international terrorism and in the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction has been widely welcomed. Terrorism can never be defended. It is a means that cannot be justified, whatever the case. Targeted action to kill civilians and innocents in order to promote a political goal is totally unacceptable. How, then, are we going to fight terrorism? More than military power, we must use political, legal and economic instruments. And we have to do more than that. We have to look at the very cause of terror. We need to change the reason why people are allowed to work and use in the name of terror. The high-level conference in Norway initiated in New York, highlighting the underlying causes of terrorism. It involves building strong and well-managed countries. In countries where the regime breaks human rights, suppresses its own people and gives no hope of a better life, growing hatred and extremism, and terrorism gives rise to good growth conditions. Norway must therefore fight for the protection of human rights – freedom and justice for all people. Regimes must strive for values such as peace and justice, that will make us all safer and safer for hatred and attack. We know that ideologies and religions are abused in the name of terror. But in all the greatest religions and for most believers, love, respect and humanity are very central. Suicide terror really has no place in Islam. Terrorism doesn't know values like peace and humanity. So we can't exterminate a people or bomb a country to get rid of terror. We cannot declare war on Islam simply because some fanatics abuse religion. To prevent abuse of religion and hatred among people of different religious backgrounds, we need rather a religious dialogue and understanding. We need respect for fundamental values shared by the vast majority of people and thus contribute to making the world safe for diversity. Here religious leaders have a great responsibility. As the Prime Minister said at the Conference on Terrorism in New York, we also need to focus on the children to fight terrorism. The children are our future and our hope for a better world. We must ensure that all children are given their rights and that they are not allowed to grow up in a troubled and hateful environment. Education for children must focus on tolerance and respect. If one cannot love his neighbor, one must learn to live together and resolve conflicts with peaceful means. We must work for peace. And we need to know what kind of peace we want. It's not about winning warriors, it's about avoiding warriors. The Christian People's Party does not want to work for peace as the United States has done in Iraq, and as they add to their new doctrine of pre-purchase attacks. We do not believe in a country's total dominance in world politics. The Christian People's Party has faith in international cooperation and international agreements and laws. The Christian People's Party believes that only the UN is able to play a major global role in the work of peace and security. The UN shall and therefore must remain the cornerstone of Norwegian foreign policy, as the Government proposes. The Christian People's Party agreed to the UN track in the Iraq conflict, and felt it was wrong for the United States to attack Iraq, and without the support of the UN. As an occupying power, the United States now has a special responsibility for peace and security in Iraq, but the United Nations must have a central role in international aid and the political process towards a democratically elected government in that country. Furthermore, Norway must work towards strengthening and reforming the UN as an institution. It could increase the legitimacy and authority of the United Nations. The toughest fight we now have to win is the fight against extreme poverty. The deep gap between poor and rich makes the world insecure and is still the biggest global challenge we have. Today, over 1.2 billion people grow up without fundamental rights. Only with concrete action can we help every human being out of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1205	The government of Stoltenberg concluded an agreement with the social partners on a more inclusive working life just before it left. The agreement had three main objectives: a reduction in sick leave of 20 p.m. causes more older workers to remain longer in work for more people with disabilities in the workplace The Stoltenberg Government provided in its draft budget a good basis for the State to follow up its part of the agreement. But even before the Storting had dealt with the agreement and the Stoltenberg government's proposal for implementation, several of Bondevik's state councils were out and raised doubts about the Government's intention. It was immediately emphasised that if the sick leave was not reduced by 20 pst., an assessment would be made of cancelling the contract after half the run. On every possible occasion, the government, in particular from the Minister of Labour, has been talking about an evaluation of the agreement, but the Government seems to have little responsibility for the implementation of the agreement by the State. This was clearly illustrated by the Minister of Labour this summer. According to Today's Business, he thought it was unfortunate that the NHO had complied with the Sick Pay Scheme and the Memorandum of Understanding in 2005. In response to the NHO, the Minister of Labour stated that the agreement on an inclusive working life on the part of the State could already be terminated in the autumn. The fact that the Minister of Labour thus went across the NHO’s views was quite alarming, although surprised, should not be if one had followed the government’s management and lack of follow-up to the agreement. The public part of the agreement involved the establishment of an organisation to assist enterprises and public institutions in facilitating the functioning of sick, elderly and disabled persons at their place of work. In its first budget, the Bondevik government began its practical follow-up by cutting 60 million. kr of the Stoltenberg government had set aside for this purpose. The Intention Agreement provided for a number of public financial incentives, including grants to organisations for the organisation of work for disabled and sick persons. But after a year's work, only half of the new posts related to the contract of intention were occupied. After a year and a half, 95 pst still stood. of the organisation allowance unused. And before the summer, when the measures were about to take place, and a decline in the sick leave of IA companies began, the government stopped the use of a number of incentives to contribute to the objectives of the Memorandum of Understanding. The purchase of social security money was suspended.The funds for organising grants were stopped over the budget of the Minister for Social Security and had to be taken over by labour market measures with a much more bureaucratic application procedure. Many people ask themselves if there is a deliberate training of the intention agreement that is taking place. That suspicion is not weakened by the mention of the treaty. Again, emphasis is placed on the evaluation of the Memorandum of Understanding, but there is still no assessment of the country’s responsibility for the agreement or commitment or declaration of intent to follow up the tripartite cooperation of which the State is part. It is also remarkable that neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Labour mentions the Memorandum of Understanding with a single word in his speeches here in the United Kingdom today. These are alarming signals for all those who have had great hopes of the Memorandum of Understanding, both workers’ organisations and business organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1252	Just after the municipal elections were over, it was announced by SV's leader Kristin Halvorsen that there was going to be a hot harvest on Stortinget. I'm not quite sure if the throne debate so far today has given us the same feeling of excitation. It may well be that the light of reflection has come upon this assembly and found that it is the same composition as one had after the elections in 2001, it is the same political situation, it is the same Stortinget as a tax-free Norwegian people chose and put together so that it was mandated to a new government with a different policy – another policy that this government follows and will also follow. It is a policy that is about creating robustness for the Norwegian future – a policy that is not about immersing itself in all sorts of problems that need to be solved now, with more oil money, but actually about that one of the most important things we do is to renew our society, so that we have a basis for well-being in the future. This means that there is still to be a commitment to a general economic policy that reduces unemployment, gives a more forward-looking Norwegian business life with opportunity and optimism, as we now see the indications, but that it is quite possible to destroy by either having an excessive economic policy or by launching the tax and tax-increase spiral, which was the answer to all the challenges of the 1990s. It is therefore true that the mandate given by the electorate in 2001 actually stands by and does so until 2005. However, it is also a common obligation for all those sitting in this room to find solutions for people – from 2001 to 2005 – and not just to spend time playing games to position up to the 2005 elections. I believe that if we want to correct some of the impressions of Norwegian policy towards the voters, it may be important that we also take inwards that we all have a mandate to find common solutions within the periods between the major elections, and not just position ourselves until the next major elections. For the Right, it means that we are going to work pragmatically on a policy of lower taxes, a policy of getting a better school and not least of renewing the foundations of our welfare society. It is like getting a better functioning public sector, both within transfer mechanisms and within the public bureaucracy itself. It is a question of giving greater freedom to businesses to establish themselves, and it is a question of understanding that it is not very beneficial in a country that already has record wages — and wage-cost issues — while at the same time adding to a tax policy that makes capital more expensive compared to other countries. That is why we have made some choices in relation to fiscal policy by prioritising business. I have still not heard that there are many who want to reverse the removal of the investment tax, or that there are many who want to lower the entry point for the top tax, although they were opposed to introducing it and increasing it. I would like to comment on some of the claims made in this debate, relating to a differentiated employer's fee. Firstly, I think that part of the criticism that is being addressed – not least from the Labour Party – is in a gruesome light in relation to what they themselves must know is right. Firstly, there is a lot that has entered into an EEA Agreement. If you agree to an agreement like the EEA Agreement, that means that we are going in to submit to the legal mechanisms that make up the EEA Agreement. And these legal mechanisms made us lose a trial in 1999. Differentiated employer charges are defined as State aid. Since then, Sweden has refused its request for a similar scheme. After that, the Commission has addressed to ESA a request with a clear clarification that the interpretation made by ESA, which gave Norway the opportunity to continue for four years with a differentiated employer’s fee, was not correct and that they had to tighten it up. And then it's not possible to cancel all this through political decisions. Let me say one thing about the political question by using Protocol III. It is not the case that there is only one waiver clause for politicians who want a different outcome. So it takes extraordinary circumstances to do that. We have had an impact on an unusual circumstance that concerns the action zone, which is therefore not random. However, it is not a matter of simply pulling the hat off and saying that this should allow others to admit Norway, when it is actually the European Commission that has initiated the ESA tightening.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1270	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1273	There is now an interesting debate in several municipalities about changes in the municipal structure. The Labour Party thinks that is very positive. However, a few years ago, after — and we shall say — a strong pressure from the Right that such changes should only take place where they had local support. In the United Nations on 17 September, the Minister of State opens the door to merger by coercion. At the same time, she actually criticises the Workers' Party for a policy that her own party pushed through in Stortinget. There are three questions raised: 1st@item: inlistbox Has the Right now changed its view of what they pushed through as a position in the Storting a few years ago?2. If so, do the Christian People's Party, Left and Government Bondevik agree that it is the government's policy to be able to carry out municipal changes by coercion?3. If so, is it clear when the Government will submit proposals to the Storting on such changes? Finally, let me stress in the EEA Agreement that the interesting thing in that case is that the Government never informed Iceland and Liechtenstein that they could agree that exceptional circumstances were in a wider area than North Troms and Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1292	Let me continue with what Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen said. That's how we talked to Liechtenstein and Iceland. And we've been through a very difficult process of agreeing to what the representative Schjøtt-Pedersen mentioned earlier as an arbitrary limit, but which is the action zone boundary in Norway, and which is far from random where you've drawn. So there has been a process that has been difficult, and we have so far been able to rescue the action zone. It would not have been enough if only the EEA had said that we would not have this with us, so we could say within the EFTA pillar that we would not have it with us. The EU also had to recognise and accept that ESA was not used. And if that approval did not come, we could have been in conflict with the EU for this to be kept out, and then there would be a number of different measures that would make it more difficult for Norwegian business, if we had not therefore approved and accepted this scheme from the European Commission as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1299	President, I ask the floor to correct a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1304	Yes, it must be very obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1307	The Council of State was injured to give the impression that a decision under ODA Protocol 3 must be submitted to the EU for approval, in other words that the corresponding use of EU legislation must also be submitted to EFTA for approval. I can't. It is an independent decision of the Council of Ministers which is a review or infringement of the respective ESA Commission decisions. Otherwise, I register that the Council of State did not answer my questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1314	The misunderstanding is probably solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1317	It is absolutely right that we should not have it approved in the EU. At the same time, however, we would have been in a situation where we had an illegal state aid for Norwegian companies for which we had said that ESA did not have competence, and then we had questions about how EU legislation would be understood in relation to those companies if there were a dumping charge against the same companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1322	The President is sure that this is very clear for the House now. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1325	I would like to refer to the fact that Norway today has far more municipalities than is comparable in both Sweden and Denmark. Here in Norway, we have not had a comprehensive reform of the municipal structure since the 1960s, so the number of municipalities was reduced by 290 on a proposal from the Skei Commission. And since 1967, 20 municipalities have disappeared, 19 of them in 1994 and one in 2002. Today, the Progress Party is promoting 16 different proposals to clarify what the Government really stands for in some important political issues. And according to my information, it is so to understand that the Government and government parties will not support the proposal of the Progress Party in this area. I find it strange that it is not possible to support this proposal, and I ask for an explanation from the Council of State Erna Solberg, as I see it so that it must be in Erna Solberg's spirit to support the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1332	I have repeatedly announced that in the 2005 municipal bill, that is, the one coming in the spring of 2004, we will have a review of the processes that have been and a discussion of which principles will apply in that case. We have therefore not felt the need to make our own big message about a new municipal structure. The government's insistence on volunteering, and so it's not like I've announced a changed line. On the other hand, I have said that we have a dilemma if five municipalities are discussing municipal councils, and four of them are going to say yes, and the fifth one is in the middle, not saying yes. Then I think it would be natural, for the sake of the whole, for everyone that the fifth municipality should not be able to block for a municipal association. At the same time, I have made it very clear that the government stands for the volunteer line, we stand for it. It is also the case that there has been one vote on that question after what Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen mentioned earlier, that vote was taken in the spring of 2000. Then the right did not vote for repeating the same position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1342	One of the most important social human rights rights is the right of a place to live. Therefore, we should believe that a government that is constantly beating itself as hard as it can on its chest over its own efforts against poverty would help to provide housing for all the peoples who, to quote the poverty message, ‘need it the most’. The government has already said that you don't have to bet on youth, they don't need it the most. People who have bad advice, and who lack an all right place to live, don't need it the most. The pot for housing grants only goes to refugees, to homeless people and to mentally retarded people. The municipal minister said earlier that it is not just building up out of the housing problems. But now it turns out that once the municipalities have settled down and folded up their sleeves to make an effort in the fight against homelessness and to receive refugees, the House Bank lacks 100 million. DKK in housing grants to solve these problems. How can the Council of State claim that she is engaged in a credible struggle to get homeless and refugees a place to live when she rejects a quarter of the municipal projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1349	So the housing allowance that we're giving today is divided into two different parts. One part goes to the municipalities, to housing social action programmes. It involves providing support for individuals to enter a permanent owner’s dwelling. There are considerably more groups than those mentioned by the representative Holmås, who actually get help. There are people who need it as an additional grant, not least it can be disabled. There may be lonely caregivers who need exactly that help to get over the knee. But it's going to be a strategy that the municipalities themselves choose. Half go to it. The other half will allow municipalities to invest and purchase rental housing for individual groups, including: to the homeless and refugees. It is true that one now lacks, in relation to the wishes of the municipalities for refugee housing, a sum in relation to the application rate of almost 100 million. kr. At the same time, we have never given as much money as we give this year just for the purpose of refugee housing. In fact, it is a problem that it seems that more and more people are being driven into receiving grants to municipalities that have previously managed to achieve the integration grant in order to solve housing issues. It's a little bit like wanting to double up for the same type of integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1356	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1359	The party of progress was from the beginning of a liberalist, at least a liberal, party, a party that spoke of the freedom of individuals, which was opposed to guardianship, which fought against public intervention in its party name, which was the subject of personal freedom and the reduction of unnecessary prohibitions and regulations. It was a party that would give individuals armsstrokes. Immigration policy was secondary. Today, immigration policy has become so overarching for the Progress Party that it is willing to make significant cuts in the personal freedom of the Nordics, but it can lead to some reduction in immigration. I'll do some examples. Today, the aim is for all Norwegian students to take at least one semester abroad. Many Norwegian youths study full-time in countries such as the United States, Australia, the Czech Republic and the United Kingdom, and they fall in love. Of course, they fall in love with people of the other sex in the country where they study. When they finish the studies after three to four years and they are 21 and 22 years old, they want to take their spouse to Norway. Then, foreperson Carl I. Hagen comes in and says: No, your spouse must be at least 24 years old before he is allowed to move with you to Norway – six years older than the age of authority. And as if that is not enough, according to Carl I. Hagen and the proposals of the Progress Party, you must also own a suitable home before you can take the spouse to Norway. And it's not certain that everyone has as great a home as Carl I. Hagen was shown in the recent Watch and Listen, or the one we've seen in the newspapers lately. I am even in the situation that when I'm finished at Stortinget in two years, I probably won't have a suitable home for myself, and I don't want the housing standard that makes me allowed, if Carl I. Hagen was to decide, to take a spouse to Norway, even if he had to be well over 24 years old. When the EEA Agreement was first adopted, some of the most positive was the free labour market. It was honoured by the Progress Party because it provided a substantial increase in our personal freedom as Norwegians. We could get jobs in Spain, Greece, Germany and France. We could establish ourselves with a small fort restaurant in Torrevieja, Spain, if we wanted to. Now the EU is expanding, so that the opportunities to further increase our personal freedom are present. The EU is expanding with countries in Eastern Europe, with great countries such as the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary, and it allows us to take jobs there because of the free labour market. We can bring our Norwegian savings and move to these low-cost countries, buy us a restaurant or a small hotel in Prague or in some of the fine rural areas of Poland or the Czech Republic. Norwegian youths will be able to take on jobs as dirty cleaners in Zakopane. There are opportunities for Norwegian youth in a new and interesting labour market in Eastern Europe, unless Carl I. Hagen comes back and manages to get the Government to destroy this extension of our personal freedom, for now he wants to regulate the free labour market in the EEA Agreement. He wants transitional arrangements. He does not want Poles and Czechs to be able to come to Norway to work. And then I ask the question: will the Poles and Czechs then accept that the Norwegians come to Poland and the Czech Republic to work or to invest their savings? Isn't it true that a free labour market has to go both ways, it can't be one-sided? What Carl I. Hagen said on TV today, that there are some former members who have not been able to follow the development of the party, I can then agree with men. Evolution has gone from liberalism to something completely different, and I don't know what I'm going to put as the name of this'something completely different'. Calling it fascism would be an exaggeration. Calling it socialism would be wrong, because there are many socialists in this room who are far more liberal than Carl I. Hagen, and who at least would allow Jan Simonsen to bring a spouse from abroad even though he does not have a large enough home! Perhaps the right word is 'currency'. The progress of the Progress Party has gone from liberalism to forethought.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1372	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1375	This year’s talk included: to say that the main basis for value added is high participation in the labour market. Today we have 110 000 unemployed. What is the value of it, and what has the Government done? It was also said that the Government’s aim is to ensure housing, value creation and viable communities, and that areas with lapses of differentiated employer pay should be given good alternatives. These two statements lurk in my ears, and the Prime Minister did not mention the differentiated employer’s fee in the persuasion debate. When a differentiated employer’s fee lapses on 1 January 2004, I am afraid that even more people will have to stand in the unemployment queue, especially in the Nordic countries and the Nordic countries. With an increase of 9 pst. about every six enterprises will have to give up. The disappearance of the scheme is not just about what the EU or ESA does or does not do, but about what the Government has done in the matter. That large parts of District Norway now receive the increase in fees, the Government and the Advance Party must take responsibility for it. In the election campaign, the Progress Party tried to take a step back, but they have to take responsibility for ending up on the Government's line in this matter. The Labour Party believes that the Government has not properly taken care of Norwegian interests. It should have stood up to more, reacted much earlier and considered using the derogation provisions of the EEA Agreement for the whole country, as in Nord-Troms and Finnmark. This is, of course, an exception that the EU countries themselves use. Why hasn't the government done it? Unfortunately, the government itself has concluded that there is no alternative but to establish a similar employer’s fee for the whole country, even though Erna Solberg believes otherwise. What about the non-international industries — what has the Government done for them? A lower fee may be set here. The government has promised full compensation, but how is this going to happen? So far there are billions of different measures proposed by the Government and the present system. And, among other things, Young people in the Right of the North are saying that the proposed compensation schemes are very close to the additional costs incurred by private enterprises. For Nordland, we're actually talking about 785 million. kr. Per. There is a lack of information and predictability in terms of sustainable actions for each enterprise today. I assume that the government will put more force behind the demands to ESA for the short time remaining until 1 January 2004. Differentiated employer’s fee is the best instrument in district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1395	A few words at the end of the debate on matters not directly mentioned in the speech of the throne. In fact, the Prime Minister mentioned in a statement the quality reform, but otherwise it is bad to see. The quality reform of higher education for universities and colleges is now being fully implemented. There is a comprehensive reform, with major changes for institutions in education and guidance, and with a high level of mandatory tasks, including correction and feedback. This requires hours from scientific personnel, and hours require jobs, and jobs require wages. Large and documented self-change despite the fact that institutions also need money to make this a quality reform and not just a character reform, where we switch from number characters to letter characters. It is therefore shocking and passive that the Government does not mention this in the throne speech with clear warnings about ensuring good implementation and implementation. It's okay to have it busy, but it's stupid to stumble after the start. New estimates suggest that we need $50 billion to renovate school buildings in primary school to a satisfactory standard. The government's program of 15 billion dollars is going to be too small. After two years, 5 billion kroner of 15 billion kroner have been spent; including a budget leakage of 2 billion kroner for 2004, there is still a long way to go. That is why I once again recommend the proposal of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Eight. The only measures presented by the government can be found in a big message we have to deal with, about the resource situation in initial training. It contains two things. The reasons for this need to be monitored, says the Government, and a public sample will be set up to assess current municipal property management. This is about values. This is about attitudes. The government's attitude is obviously that this is going to take a long time. I prefer content over the buildings, said the Right parliamentary leader Oddvard Nilsen earlier today. The challenge of the Advance Party to the Right and to the Government will then be: If the content is to be better, a release of the parents to the Norwegian school will have to be made. But then both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party must take the step from parenting, which they are content to mention, to parental influence and parental leave, as the Advance Party wants. It is disappointingly passive that the government is not concerned with giving parents greater and clearer influence and power in school. Once again, we see that there is talk of the school in the election campaign, but there is less talk and less action when the election campaign is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1408	In terms of content, the census itself is probably some of the most predictable that is being carried out here at Stortinget. The languages of the throne are the good wishes and the speech of the great objectives, and the speech of the year was also largely contentually almost identical to that of the last year, where one of the naturalities replaced the other, of course, which one in most cases can fully agree with. On the other hand, the subsequent debate in the Grand Duchy is most often an interesting debate. The debate on the throne is very much media-interested. It is a debate that often addresses the major lines and the overall challenges of Norwegian policy. Part of the debate today has been interesting enough in this way. And in the case of the Advance Party, this year the party has used the debate on the throne for, among other things. to promote 16 different proposals, all of which deal with important issues where the Progress Party believes there is a need for clarification. These 16 proposals have, as I said, been promoted to reveal the views of the government parties in some areas where the Progress Party believes it is important to clarify what the government parties really stand for. In one of these proposals, proposal No. 13, therefore, asks the Government Progress Party to provide a communication on the future municipal structure in Norway. In response to my reply to the Solberg Council of State earlier this evening, the Council of State presented its view on this proposal. The answer was negative. It was disappointing and discouraging, unfortunately. It's probably the Christian People's Party that must be the brake here. I am therefore disappointed that the Government will not look into this in the form of its own big message, focusing on a more efficient and rational municipal structure, and that it would be preferable to do so as early as next year, i.e. in 2004. Today we have 434 municipalities in Norway. Sweden with twice as many inhabitants as Norway has only 289 municipalities. In Denmark there are 275 municipalities. If we had today followed the position of the Christiansen Committee from 1992 that no municipalities should have less than 5000 inhabitants, this would have meant that the number of municipalities would have been exactly halved from today's 434 to 217. I therefore believe that it is important and timely to raise a debate on the future municipal structure in Norway. I see it as negative that the Solberg Council will not now show more power in this matter, as the Progress Party suggests. I just have to regret what has happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1426	In the election campaign there were many parties, especially the socialist parties, with the SV and the Labour Party at the head, who made a strong settlement with privatisation and the outsourcing of elderly care in the country, and claimed that this contributed to poorer care for the elderly in the hospitals that were exposed to competition. Among other things, required that further competitive outsourcing of hospital and care services in the municipalities be stopped on the basis of revelations, inter alia. in the centre of Risenga. Unfortunately, in today’s VG you can read about what may seem to be an abuse by a number of public hospitals. There are, among other things: revealed that the elderly are placed in a sheltered compartment without dementia diagnosis, that forced use is not permitted, that drugs are not properly locked in, that people are not given care in line with the need, and that care does not have time to activate the residents. In addition, several municipalities do not have procedures to capture and/or report failures or service failures. This type of revelation is totally unsustainable and unacceptable. Many of these offences have occurred in publicly driven hospitals. This shows that the most important thing is not whether the operation is private or public, but that there are clear requirements for quality, as well as ensuring safe and sound services for users. It also shows that many municipalities have a minimum crew. This is a strongly contributing reason for a number of care failures. It is therefore necessary to provide a framework to ensure the proper manning of the care profession. The report of the State Health Inspectorate clearly shows that it is important to ensure a good control system that helps to ensure that all users have a decent care for the elderly. We also know that many older people are afraid to complain about the services they receive from the municipality, for fear of losing the offer they already receive. This is the case for the individual user that it is actually better with a bad offer than no offer. Today it is the goat that fits the oatmeal principle that applies, because the municipality controls itself. I therefore hope that the Government will take these challenges seriously, and that arrangements will be put in place to ensure sound and dignified care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1439	Government job no. 1 in the future will undoubtedly bring down the high unemployment rate. There has been a lot of focus on this today, and that is good. Specially frightening is the large increase in the number of job vacancies in industry. According to Aetat, every ten industrial workers have lost their jobs. There is also reason to fear that the reduced exploration and drilling activity on Norwegian base could mean new thousands of vacancies in the petroleum industry, perhaps up to 20,000 if no progress is made in the process. By starting oil extraction in the Barents Sea, at least so many people will be unemployed. In the worst cases, sommeling and training can lead to the loss of several tens of thousands of jobs. Industry will lose world-class competence. Technological development, competitiveness and, in particular, industry as such will be confused. An estimate of the oil activity in the Barents Sea and Lofoten shows that at a high level of activity it will generate 15 000 new jobs on a national basis. Otherwise, the same number of people will fall away in the next few years. Thus there is approx. 30 000 jobs in the pot according to the figures of LOs, TBLs and the Landsföreningsvereniging. We have the tools if we want to use it. Finally, I would also like to mention the differentiated employer’s fee, which lapses after the new year. The loss of thousands of jobs could be the consequence of the Government’s proposals for support schemes. Nearly half of the country's municipalities will be affected. Local enterprises that are currently paying lower fees must pay out several million kroner when the fee is increased to 14 pst. Minister of State Erna Solberg has said that the money should be returned to the same regions that are affected. But it won't solve the problem if not every business gets back as much as it loses. There is great uncertainty, and I fear that the support will only be lubricated thinly. Local businesses are already under intense pressure. This will come to the top of the problems you're struggling with. Approximately 15 000 jobs may be lost in South Troms, Northland and North Trøndelag. This is the conclusion of a report by Business Competence in Bodø, Northern Ireland. The report further states that 30 pst. of the Nordic companies that currently have profits will be in deficit if the Government does not put better arrangements on the table. At worst, we can get even greater unemployment than we have today, and we can get out of District Norway. This needs to be taken seriously, otherwise it may be wrong to combat unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1451	‘In our time, the society is being marked by faster and faster changes. Should they be mastered, required to be anchored and renewed,’ is stated at the introductory part of the Common Era. Change, mastering and renewal – yes, it is precisely keywords that are also important in cultural policy. In the Right view of modern society, a free, dynamic and challenging cultural life is an important piece. Our overall capacity for innovation and conversion is in the clear context of our own training in creative activities. For the creation has to be trained, like all other skills, it has to be sports, math or snowing. Those who live in a monotonous society with few ripples in everyday life's predictable routines will work up little creativity, and over time settle down with it and have little ability to change. While the one living in a society of great multiples, the one who has to adapt daily to changing surroundings, which is provoked by creative expressions such as advertising, art or other languages, will want to live in creative environments and will have a high tolerance for change. Stoltenberg showed earlier today to the film «Good bye, Lenin!»Yes, it is just a movie that shows these contrasts, and I join his recommendation: Go and see it! A society for change and development is a society with a rich cultural life that challenges existing structures and invites them to participate. In practical cultural policy, this means the prioritisation of those parts of cultural life that demonstrate the capacity for renewal, which test the boundaries between singers, which demonstrate the ability to build international networks in their practical work, which prioritise production rather than administration, and – not least – which actively work on the quality standards of their own expression. In this session, the size should address the Government’s recent communication on cultural policy. Here are many interesting leads and suggestions that promise good for the years to come. It must be an objective for the consideration of the cultural message that we have a debate, inside and outside the Storting, which clarifies the links between a rich cultural life and a qualitatively good society. In today's debate, there has been a lot of focus on creating new jobs, and often we talk about research and education in that context. Let's also remember that cultural competence actually completes the picture and will be very, very important in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1466	Some speakers from the government parties have affected the transport area in their speeches. They have stressed that in the field of transport, the Government has carried out a revolution. And it's been said, according to an intervention by the committee's chairman, Petter Løvik, that there's been a force on transport in the last two years. I don't know what is defined here with revolution and force majeure, but the budget framework for transport cannot be involved. Transport statistics show that the share of the transport budget in the state budget over the last 20 years is more than halved, from 6.7 pst. from 1980 to 2.6 p.m. in 2003. If we take out the costs – i.e. the equity allocation – of the Post, NSB and Mesta here, the transport budget has also been reduced in pure dollars, from 25.5 billion in 2000 to 21 billion in 2003. In addition, if we compare Norway with Sweden and Denmark, we use relatively significantly less than Sweden on transport. We use at the same level as Denmark, approx. 2.5 pst. by the State budget. Just that fact is a major challenge for all the parties in the hall when considering the national transport plan for spring, namely to clarify whether it is right for us in Norway, with our geography, to use as little – i.e. 2.5 pst., which is at the same level as Denmark – for transport. There's a lot one could have said about the government's transport policy, but there won't be time for tonight. But to claim that a billion-class framework reduction is a revolutionary force, it's as wrong as it might be.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1475	The representative Sanner said in his reply to my reply that there were no economists who had gone well for the economic policy of the Central Party. It's just that it's wrong. Firstly, with regard to interest rate policy, we have proposed that the Bank of Norway should focus less on inflation estimates and take more account of the business situation. We demanded last year's lower interest rate, which would have given us a lower interest rate. A few weeks ago, we received a report from an independent expert panel, and the headline after the presentation is among others.: Dogmatic bomb. The interest rate was set too late. And it was given the grade Ng+ to Norway's Bank in one of the newspapers. This is criticism of the Bank of Norway, but it is the responsibility of the Government. The high price of the krone cost the fish and aquaculture industry $2.5 billion in 2002, and it is equity in the industries that disappeared. 2 500 lost jobs in the fishing industry resulted after 1 January 2002. Then to fiscal policy. The Centre Party has proposed more flexible use of the Code of Action so that, in certain situations, more oil money can be used than under the rules of action to prevent unemployment, to remove bottlenecks such as: in the transport sector and in order to increase value creation when available. Then the SSB presented this report on economic analysis in January. They had then made calculations that say that if one spent NOK 2.5 billion extra per. quarterly government budgets for public procurement would not increase prices or interest rates. The centre has only spent an extra DKK 3-5 billion, for roads, for schools, for housing and for SND. According to the letter we received from the NHO – their association for construction – from the SND and from the KS, our additional appropriations would give 30,000 more work today. Then it turned out that in 2002, an extra 10 billion kroner were spent on oil money. They did not stimulate business, they went to pay the unemployment costs and to compensate for tax failures – tax policy as part of wage policy. The SSB had the same report, they have said that if one gave the same amount of tax relief to persons whom they said they could have been given through public budgets, it would have no effect on employment. In 2002, the government reported a record drop in top taxes and dividend taxes. Nevertheless, in 2002, there was a serious pay gap. So the medicine that the Right Party and the Advance Party have foreshadowed does not work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1486	The most remarkable information produced during this year’s debate is that Norway has a prime minister who is the best friend of organized crime. If the information had resulted in correctness, it would mean that the prime minister should have been inside, and then in a completely different building than the landfill. Now there is hardly any risk that anyone might think that the information leads to correctness, I had almost said neither here nor raised, but the more regrettable it is that the repertoire of which characteristics are valid in this room is expanded in such a far-sighted and dramatic way. This would be an advantage if the leader of the Progressive Party apologized for the nature of the situation falling from the pulpit of Storting, and that excuse should be addressed both to the Prime Minister and to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1491	I will take the floor at the end of the debate to comment on some of the questions raised about the proposal of the Central Party during the debate. But I often sit with a little sympathy during this kind of debate. I think it was Ryan's representative who earlier this evening put words on the motivating feeling, and in his words it was probably something like that the Stortinge makes itself a sea of opinion rather than a decision-making body. And sometimes I and the party I represent sit with the feeling that the Storting here sails define itself into a role where we discuss a game where we discuss constitutional questions, but where we give ourselves the opportunity to discuss some of the concrete issues and the practical policies that we should have discussed. The centre party has promoted some proposals today, and we have promoted them because we know that there is a majority in the Stortinget who have stood out in an electoral campaign and promised the same thing as we do in these questions. And when the representative Akselsen accused earlier this evening and was concerned about the government's silence in relation to Hydro ASA, one has to ask, shall the Workers' Party also be responsible for the same silence in the main hall? They didn't do that during the election campaign. Should they do this tonight? With regard to the question of the differentiated employer’s fee, the history description of the municipal minister is quite correct until the ESA informed Norway to change the fee. But then there is a fact that the government has chosen a solution that has not yet been dealt with by ESA, and they have not received any information from the ESA system about how this will happen to Norway. So you've been so defensive that you haven't tried the possibilities you actually have. And you could have two ways to go. One is that the ODA protocol could have been used to extend the exceptions in relation to what the Government has chosen to do. The other way forward is to have excluded some activities in Norway that are not in competition with EU activities. In particular, Norwegian municipalities and county councils are involved, which alone have to take a fee increase of NOK 2.1 billion if the government’s system is implemented. The parties have also agreed on that. And the central party's question is why it's going to be so hard to vote for it in practical politics. The proposal of the Central Party on the cultural landscape is not about national policy guidelines or about creating a hundred-metre belt; it is about the cultivation and cultivation of the soil. If it can happen locally, nothing is better than that. And if the issues in connection with it can be decided locally, nothing is better than that. But we're missing tools to preserve the cultural landscape, and that's what the Center Party is asking for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1502	I just want to come back to something in my previous line change, namely the question of the proposal of the Progress Party on a big message about the future municipal structure. I understand that it has greatly disappointed that the government parties will not vote for it. I believe that we actually contribute to raising a debate on the municipal structure of the future every day. I just want to stress that the arguments I have for wanting a change in the municipal structure of the future are, first of all, to defend the government-making policy of the Progress Party and to ensure that local democracy becomes more viable in the future. I'm not sure if we had submitted a big message, that the Progress Party would have been so satisfied with it, if you had looked at what was the motivation to want a different type of municipal structure, which was more robust than the municipal structure that is now constantly being decommissioned through more detailed state control. So to the question of whether we could have chosen to do other things in relation to a differentiated employer's fee. It's very fun to stand and say that of course you should do other things. We could, for example, let's not have any process with ESA or listen to what they made of recommendations. We could take everything to court. It could have been "1.1.2004", but we wouldn't have known if we had transitional arrangements, if we had some stability, if we had any alternatives. We could choose to say that we take care of our back coverage in Norwegian opinion, so that we do not try to find out where the limits are. I believe that we have done the process that Karin Andersen has called for us to do, in the form of trying to find out arrangements to the extent possible, and among other things. therefore requested three years of transitional arrangements for Zones 3 and 4. But, of course, we could choose the simpler way in these debates, so we must refer to the clear signals as to how the interpretations of the law actually are within the framework of the legislation we have. But if there is one thing I think we have quite clear signals that would be completely wrong to do – and I really think the Labour Party should clarify what they think about that issue – that is what the representative Marit Arnstad just mentioned, namely excluding individual industries. We have been clearly informed by ESA that they would have to investigate the competitive situation of each company – not just today, but the potential competitive situation – and then we had to notify the schemes for each company. I wish for what the Minister of Industry said, ‘A simpler Norway’. A notification for every single enterprise in these areas that should be out of competition, with the obstacles and segmentation of the industrial structure we would then have received, I think most people here should think through; in any case, we wouldn't have wanted that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1513	There has been a calm and factual tone in this debate. The opposition parties have both in the hall and in the media toned down the crisis signals, and that is positive. The time will then show what is most important: the 2004 state budget or the 2005 election position. The left would like to have a majority in the Great Britain behind the government's policy. But that's not the situation, as little as it has been for all the minority governments in the country since 1971. The new thing is that we have an overall opposition that creates the greatest possible distance and therefore gives ground to speculation about crisis and games. The left is talking to everyone about concrete policies, but it's not just up to the government to choose cooperative parties. The opposition parties must also choose what they want: influence through compromises or irreconcilable resistance. I want to raise one of the posts that have been. SV's Rolf Rikvam was very concerned with local democracy. We in the Left are very happy that someone is willing to take it seriously. Rikvam talked about the Power Investigation. I was in the power investigation board, which was an incredibly exciting task, and it was an incredible lot to go through with information. SV should read more. The signs of maritime criticism over the fact that SV is the most centralistic party of all and why there is such an enormous distinction between word and action are striking. The reason is clearly ideological. The Socialist Left no longer speaks loudly about socialism, but continues to use liberal concepts. In reality, socialism is still sitting on the spinal cord. The requirement for equality and freedom is more important than that of municipalities and individuals making choices that SV does not like or that make it different for neighbours. One of the scientists in the Power Investigation, Per Selle, said in a lecture: ‘The municipal priority effectiveness, which may previously have been the main pillar of local democracy, was among others. a problem, because it could lead to differences in the welfare provision between municipalities. And the diversity of the offer is automatically interpreted as a sign of unacceptable inequality.’ Another researcher in the Power Investigation, Yngve Flo, says about the Advance Party and SV: ‘Partia stands out with little acceptance for inter-municipal variation and fear that municipalities will give priority to non-governmental priorities.’ As long as SV lacks this understanding, it just becomes with the words, but we in the left want to talk to SV about this. The belief in local democracy as a supporter of our democracy is something that is enormously threatened now, and it is important that we continue to hold the debate in order to fight it. The left takes today's debate as a sign that chaos and disorder in Norwegian policy are not as prominent as it is sometimes heard. We want cooperation to continue with the combination of good environmental policy, offensive industrial policy and social responsibility for the weakest. The State budget is due on Wednesday and should provide a basis for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1538	The reason why I take the floor is that Councillor Erna Solberg drew up a situation in which, if we had done as the opposition said, we could risk standing without an agreement regarding alternative support schemes for the differentiated employer fee on 1 January 2004. But that's exactly where we are! We do not know if we have any negotiated agreement on 1 January 2004. The government has not done the job it was supposed to do. The main point here is not a discussion of the content of the EEA Agreement – unfortunately, this scheme is known to be illegal. However, in the EU it is also a matter of policy. The government has not contacted the EU at a high level in order to possibly extend the scheme, so that we could get an agreement in place before the scheme disappeared. So what happens on 1 January 2004 is nobody knows. If ESA does not now approve what the Government has come up with, what should the companies do? Shall we continue as we do now, with threats to justice, as the Government claims? Or is the whole employer's fee gone? No one has responded, and at least not the Government. It is also quite encouraging to hear that the Government will not use the possibilities under the legislation. I have heard the argument now for why one does not want to exempt companies that do not compete across borders. The government has not tried to create a transport aid scheme that could work for larger parts of the country if a new district aid map had been drawn and put into it the areas of Mountain and District Norway that have a very long road to the centre. It would have been possible. In addition, it is possible to set up fund schemes such as local food funds, local industrial funds or regional industrial funds, which could enter and provide support for, for example: broadband and other infrastructure that could have been important for business. Nor has the government submitted any suggestions. Such a scheme had to be quite large in order to compensate for the loss of a differentiated employer’s fee, which goes to the individual enterprise, to the individual workplace. It would have been an indirect effect which would have been much larger in volume, and which should have been up and standing if we were to feel some security for what is coming on 1 January. So the accusation against the government here from the SV's side is point 1, that neither did they realize the seriousness until it was too late, and point 2, that they have not made the necessary political contacts with a system that they believe is very excellent, and which they want to enter, and in which they do have some contacts, where they think they can reach out politically with their views. The government has in no way taken advantage of the opportunities offered by the legislation to which it is subject for the benefit of Norwegian businesses in the districts. It's a pretty serious situation, and that means that a lot of jobs in District Norway are now in danger, because the government hasn't done the job that we all seem to have been in front of us for over four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1551	The centre party also considers it necessary to take a turn on the question that the Council of State, Solberg, has now commented on a differentiated employer’s fee. The Prime Minister has earlier stated in this case that we could receive millions of fines because of state aid. That's obviously wrong, we can't get that at all. No fines are imposed on State aid cases in the EU and the EEA. So state councillor Solberg today claims that ESA has said that they have investigated individual companies. Now it is the case that ESA has just cancelled a letter to Nordnorsk Verftscooperation that they have to investigate individual companies. They have not taken a decision on that question. So it's good to be able to exempt entire industries from the tax, but that's an option the government hasn't tried. If the State Council of Solberg still considers that ESA has expressed this opinion and has given a prior opinion on it, the ESA has clearly made a procedural error, for ESA does not have the right to give binding prior opinions on matters that have not been notified and have not been submitted to ESA and where no decision has been taken nationally. This means that I believe that this case is still completely open, and that the Government still has an opportunity to consult with the Storting about more extensive exemption arrangements than the Government has set up, if the Government is interested in it. Following this election campaign, some of the government’s spokesmen, at least from the districts affected, have gone a long way in wanting that opportunity to be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1558	I would like to be allowed, at the bottom of this debate, to express my opinion of the change that the Stortinget has made in terms of the fact that the debate on the throne comes before the state budget is presented, has been a success. There has been a good debate on many different political issues, without a pre-debate on the state budget fooling up an exchange of views on other issues. So that change, I think, made sense. Then I understand that the government parties will vote in favour of the proposals that are marked 'amended', as well as proposal No. So eight, that's seven of our 16 proposals. I think it's positive. I would have been very, very pleased if they had voted for twelve of them, which I think you should have done, and I would have been pretty angry, grumpy and sad if they had only voted for three. So this is like the middle of the tree, so that the situation between the Progress Party and the Government is unchanged – it's neither distorted nor improved through this debate and this treatment. I am particularly disappointed that we will not vote in favour of the No. 6 and 7, in particular proposal No. 6, implementing the Decision of 15 June 2001 of the Storting on ‘negative effect’. The Prime Minister must remember that in a debate on 14 May last year, he stated that it was the government’s ‘condemned duty’ to follow up the Storting decision – to take it in the form of a quotation. When the government parties will actually vote against implementing the Storting decision, I think it's a disappointing turnaround. Making sure that all approved hospitals and clinics could get agreements and use their capacity to operate sick people, I am also disappointed that they say no. Here you already have ISF systems that could only have been expanded, and that was reason to hope for after we got the Sem statement. So I'm disappointed that you say no to treating sick people after input-based funding, which you will actually do here, and I'm of course disappointed that the government in the coming discussions with the social partners will not get back coverage in advance to offer tax reliefs, so that we could get as moderate a settlement as possible at all, just to secure employment, to ensure the start of new businesses, as the Government in the Commons claims is a main goal of the Government. The best way to do this is to make a very moderate wage bill, and then it's better for the state, which is running a huge profit, to cover some of the things that need to be done in order to have a possible general increase in living standards, or at least not to fall as a result of inflation, which, fortunately, has become low, thanks to the last year's budget. But this is a way in which Norway can secure employment. I am also sorry that we could not be met in that area. But at least we've got some sort of clarification, and that's at least of the good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1567	I'm recording what State Council Solberg says. I find, however, that the Government has not at any time – not at any time – provided the Stortinget with an explanation of how far it is possible to continue low employer charges for different industries or companies. On the other hand, like other speakers in this debate, I note that ESA, in a letter to the Nordnorsk Shipyard Cooperation, has drawn limits that are different from what the Government has publicly stated and that give reason to believe that boundaries can be made at industry level. As far as I am aware, legal decisions have also been made during the summer that can support it. Otherwise I have to say that with a fee reduction of 9 pst. In relation to the government's arrangements, I think that the business community would be willing to do some additional work, compared to the scheme outlined by the Government. However, the main criticism of the Workers' Party is that the Government has not made any attempt, nor has it made any proposal to base an exception on the ODA protocol beyond the North Troms and Finnmark area. This is apparent from a letter from the Government to the Workers' Party's big group, and I will quote two sentences. The first one: ‘On the basis of our own assessment of the space for action provided by the provision and which is also built...’, etc. This shows that it is the Government’s own assessment, and that it is not based on an assessment carried out by our partners, it has come to a conclusion. The second: ‘The negotiations therefore did not reach the stage when Norway put forward concrete proposals for the extension of the geographical area for the continuation of differentiated rates by means of ODA Protocol 3.’; In other words, the government has not made such a proposal. That is what the Labour Party believes for its part is critical. We believe that there would have been a basis for exemption for a larger area that would have resulted in the removal of the significant employers' fee increase that will now be implemented. This lack of action seems unfortunate to us, but I have to say that the Government has received the agreement of a majority in the European Parliament during the consideration of the case by the EEA Committee, where the Progress Party not only gave its support, but the main speakers of the Advance Party said: We think the government has done a real job, and it gets support for the further handling of this. From the Labour Party we do not think that the Government has done a real job, and we did not agree to the government's handling. Neither the Workers' Party, SV nor the Center Party did.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1593	Councillor Erna Solberg has spoken twice and gets the floor for a brief remark. Since Solberg is in the middle of the shot here, she'll try to limit speaking time to two minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1596	Thank you, President. I would like to stress, since Karin Andersen says that we have not negotiated any agreement, that it is unfortunately such that the ESA is not negotiated with the ESA. You take note of their decisions. We're part of an international legal system, and the ESA makes decisions about this. When Karin Andersen says at the same time that we should have drawn a new district map, I would like to say that we chose not to. That would mean that if we were to get some areas, we had to take out other areas. This applies not only to the issue of transport aid but, in fact, to the whole system of aid in the area of rural and regional policy. This evaluation will be carried out in the context of the 2006 revision, but we have not chosen to completely recalculate Norwegian district policy in order to draw up a new map in order to obtain the transport aid scheme. But we're doing a back-up for some areas in the mountain region to see if they can come within a transport aid scheme that we didn't think we'd get in the past. We haven't got the calculations yet, but we didn't think it would be possible. But in retrospect, after discussions with ESA, we have been given the opportunity to document again within other administrative limits. If we now manage to document transport aid costs that are higher than what is required, we will do so. So to the Center Party's Marit Arnstad who says it's not fines. No, but we can get a refund, and it is a matter of having to repay from 1 January 2004 if we chose to do something else that was not in accordance with what ESA says. So it's like you can say that you can't give advance notice. It is absolutely right that the ESA, as a judicial authority, cannot give a prior warning about it. But we've had conversations about the premises for what we can expect to do, and there, Bull himself said that general industry exemptions we can't get to. They have clearly received that pressure from the EU not to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1607	This debate has also dealt with a wide range of concrete proposals, and at the bottom of the debate I think it is right that I should say a little about the proposals on behalf of the Labour Party. Firstly, I believe that, in general and in principle, it should be a very high threshold for the Stortinget, the National Assembly of the country, to vote in favour of proposals submitted on the same day or perhaps just a day or two earlier without consideration in committees. That is why the Labour Party has a long tradition that we normally vote against this type of proposal, and we will do that this time as well. We are voting against all the proposals. That's exactly why I think I'm going to make some comments, because that doesn't necessarily mean that we're against the intention or the background of all the proposals, but it simply means that when we're going to deal with important issues, it requires a much more responsible and thorough procedure than we get through one day's handling of proposals that have been on our table for a few hours. Normally, a party of governments or government parties would also have the same position. The abnormal thing now is that the government is voting for a wide range of these proposals. There are requests for a trial of questions that either the Government should be reasonably confident that it would investigate on its own initiative without being imposed on it by the Storting, or investigations of issues that the Government has at least previously opposed. For example, I now see that the government parties are going to vote for the Stortinget to ask the Government to assess the benefits and disadvantages of financing the costs of the care services for the elderly, in line with disability pensions and sickness benefits. That idea has been strongly argued by the government parties throughout the campaign, so now they're going to figure out something like this. It undermines respect for Storting's decision. It's a kind of big business where the government parties are ruling over the government in something it's really against, to investigate it still for obvious to soften Hagen's temperament and psyche. That's what we're dealing with, not the realities of the matter. It's not a contribution to strengthening Storting's respect. It's not a contribution to countering big business, and it's a contradiction, for example. Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik said as late as April, when we discussed this type of request decision and the Prime Minister warned, along with the representatives of the Right, that Stortinget was pushing too many petition decisions that were not followed up. So, as a traditional party, we want to vote against all the proposals. We are not against, for example. to clean up school buildings, but I am very sure that the Stortinget will be back in two days' time in connection with the state budget. I'll get back to other points later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1620	This could have been the golden opportunity for the opposition to present its alternatives to the current government — a golden opportunity to present their visions of where they will bring Norway. I've seen very little of it. I have listened to complaints, mostly from some people who want to spend more money, and I have heard little from the opposition about what challenges the country is facing. There is no overall opposition. Individual parties crack in all directions, but there is still something common: all parties have unsustainable opposition policies. The old-fashioned socialism of the Labour Party will not be feasible. People don't want to accept that the clock is turned back. When pensioners have been given the opportunity to choose between the care services, they will not, of course, accept that the offers are taken from them. Students and parents who are given the opportunity to choose a high school, an alternative to the public school, will not accept its closure. When the shops are allowed to stay open in the evening, nobody will of course accept that they should be closed again. The air will quickly exit the balloon to the Advance Party as you go into the oil fund and meet with an interest rate and galloping price rise. The fact that the Socialist Left Party programme is not feasible, in a sense, they themselves have come to realize what has been going on in the past today. I hope at least that we will not see anyone screw the tax screw so firmly that the workplaces escape this country. I hope I don't see the introduction of the 6-hour day and the crisis we would immediately have in the labour market. I'm glad that SV never got a majority for all of his proposals against oil extraction, which gives the country the revenues we have today. To the representative of Stoltenberg, in this connection with SV, I would like to mention the old saying that there is nothing in socialism that does not quickly cure knowledge and experience. [[Laughter]] So a little bit to this with the sustainability. This is what has been one of the issues related to this debate, and the truth is that it is linked to the employer’s fee. I repeat what I said this morning: I am disappointed that the Workers' Party has used a rhetoric in the election campaign that they themselves know does not hold the goal. It's not sustainable. The representative Stoltenberg knows that if he himself had been in government, he would never have been able to accomplish anything other than what this government has done. So honestly, I think he should be, and say that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1635	Here comes the red threat, which would like to comment on some of the proposals that have been put forward in the debate. First of all, the proposals put forward by the Centre Party. We would like to ask the Central Party to make proposals no. 17-19 on transmission proposals or simply draw them. There are proposals that have not received the necessary attention in this debate, and where SV feels great commitments to do a real job. This is what we think we have to do in terms of both the employer's fee, Høyanger and Årdal, and in terms of the obligation to pay on leave. As regards proposal No: 20, SV wants a change that is about the Storting asking the Government to ‘present to the Stortinget’ an action plan instead of ‘implementing’ an action plan. We could imagine what this government is going to do before we give our approval. Proposal No. 21 is a proposal that SV can support. In the case of the 16 proposals of the Hagen and the Advance Party, we may have to start by saying: Heaven and sea, he managed it again. How is it possible for this government to get washed in the hooks in relation to having to force through some sour-pomace behavior and then change six proposals and vote for a seventh? There's no dignity over these things here. In addition, I have to say that I am very wondering what is really the content of proposal No. 9, which concerns environmental policy and Kyoto objectives. Well, there's a couple of ways to do this. In fact, the government provides an overview that shows that if you pick the best from these countries' environmental policies, you get the best. In that case, Norway will really become a country of the past. If you pick the worst, it's a complete disaster. But in any case, it is of interest to SV what the Government intends to do in relation to the Kyoto targets, for where the Government actually has an agreement with SV on how to implement the climate objectives. So I would like to have the Government's assurance that they are firmly committed to the agreements they have made with the Swedish Government regarding climate policy, and that this can be a little bureaucratic work to help the Progress Party get an overview of environmental policy. For information purposes, it would be useful as such, but no indication of de-evaluation of the environmental policy agreed with EN.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1646	First of all, I would recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote against the proposals from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. With regard to proposals Nos. 17–19, there are also themes that we intend to come back to, probably first and foremost no. 18 and 19 in the budgetary procedure. Like others, we also plan to get more involved in the situation of Høyanger, Årdal and Karmøy and have meetings on that occasion, but we are not prepared to vote for a proposal of this kind. As regards proposal No: 20, we disagree with that, and proposal No. 21 we look at as a rematch on the whole health reform that we're not prepared to do, in the form that's here. Then I have to tell the representative Jens Stoltenberg that it is possible that the Workers' Party has practice of not presenting anything in particular with proposals for voting in the Stortinget, so that the Labour Party's policies and positions are clarified. But it has actually happened in the past that the Workers' Party has had to follow up decisions. I remember when we put forward proposals in a throne debate just to force a plan for a dramatic strengthening of the care of the elderly, which was the precursor of the 30 billion DKK bet. Finally, it was unanimously adopted in the debate on the throne after it was clear that our proposal would have a majority. Then the Labour Party also joined such a proposal to its own government, and it was very reasonable for the Storting to take that decision, when we know what happened next. Then Jens Stoltenberg showed that the government parties, including the Prime Minister, should have said earlier that they were warned against too many requests that were not followed up. I think that is too strong an insinuation against the Government and Government parties when, as far as I understand, they will vote for some of our proposals. I expect that the Government and the Government parties actually have the position that the proposals that are being adopted will be followed up by the Government. It must be absolutely essential that, when the Storing has taken decisions asking the Government to do things, the Government does so and comes back within the time limits set in the Storing. I also think it should be mentioned that it is also not unknown that government parties agree to vote in favour of proposals through discussions with opposition parties in committees or in the context of a persuasion debate. It is not uncommon that when other parties take up proposals in a committee hearing on a matter or in a committee position, the government parties join and support proposals in a committee as a compromise on which several things are seen in the context. So here I think there is a completely unjustified criticism from Jens Stoltenberg regarding the behaviour of the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1659	All in all, I think that this debate on the subject of the throne has been a fairly good debate. There have been many important articles on many good themes. What I think we need to discuss in the years to come, if this kind of persuasion debate is to be maintained, is to what extent we should be able to follow up what is said, to what extent we should be able to use decision-making powers in relation to the persuasion debate. After the reactions of the other parties to the proposal of the Central Party today, I feel a need for a thorough assessment of it. Moreover, I think it is a weakness in this persuasion debate, as in many previous debates, that there will be a debate on the political game more than on the political issues. There I think several of us have reason to go through again how you choose to deal with things. It is probably true that the Progress Party has promoted its 16 proposals in a game. At the same time, I believe that we have a responsibility, each party, to decide on the various proposals of the Progress Party and to vote for what we think is right. Therefore, the Central Party will not select the same line as the SV and the Workers' Party have notified of the proposals of the Advance Party. We are going to vote in favour of the proposals of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities that we are in favour of. And we believe that to a greater extent in this room we should have chosen such a case-by-case and practical-oriented line. With regard to the proposals of the Centre Party, it is not important for the Centre Party that it is the proposal of the Centre Party. Those proposals are important to those which they concern. I am a little incomprehensible to that some parties now, on a principle basis, want a more thorough handling of matters in which they sail loud and clear have promised a good deal during the election campaign. So they've promised a good deal in the election campaign, and then they come back here in the hall and suddenly need a more thorough handling of the cases, or they have a fundamental counter-representation in terms of the distinction between the budget debate and the chronology debate. I think that's remarkable. However, if there is evidence that the parties intend to vote for part of what they have promised during the election campaign later in the autumn, the Senter Party shall not, of course, deprive them of an opportunity to do so. What matters to the Central Party is that these proposals are being implemented because there is a majority in the United Kingdom who have said that they are behind them. I would therefore like to say, on behalf of the Central Party, that we are drawing proposals. 17, 18 and 19. These proposals will be re-examined on the first and best occasion in which the parties find out that they are being given a thorough enough procedure in order to be able to follow up what they have promised during the election campaign. Otherwise, I must tell Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party that there is no more rematch in proposal No. 21 than the health policy spokesman of the Progress Party was out and promised in Lärdal during the election campaign for the maintenance of both emergency and food supply. I would also recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote in favour of proposal No. 2, 3, 6, 8 and 12, as well as the proposals that the Central Party has maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1672	First of all, I would like to congratulate the representative, Mr Stoltenberg, who has had a full impact on one point here today. His proposal is very much in favour of the fact that the greatest possible number of gutter representatives should go and watch the film «Good bye Lenin!». Well, that's basically what's of total penetration today, but when we think about the content of the title, it's still pretty good that there's such a co-ordinated magnification right at that point. Otherwise I fully agree with the representative Hagen that the debate, as he was set up today, has worked, and I would like to congratulate the Presidency on renewing the debate of the throne in the way he has done today. I would also like to hope that the new setup that comes in connection with the presentation of the financial statements will function well and in a way re-enter the upscale hall as an arena to a greater extent than it has been in recent years. When it comes to the proposals, Oddvard Nilsen on behalf of the government party will present our position to each and every one. But the Christian People's Party for its part has not had the practice that we have voted against in principle. As a general rule, we have said that we are voting for what we are for and against what we are against. It will also happen here today, and then the representative Nilsen will come back to the individual proposals. What I'm doing now, I'm not doing with any special joy. But I had hoped that the representative Hagen, who had the word twice, had also responded to the representative's recommendation. Earlier this summer there was a heated debate where Carl I. Hagen owed the prime minister indirectly for being responsible for murder, for the Norwegian girls being elected. It was in the media. Today it's taken into the main hall: ‘Sweden reduces its alcohol levies’. That's not true. They have not taken a decision on it. They presented the budget recently, without it. And on the other hand, ‘Denmark does, Finland does, and we have the world’s highest charges. We are an eldorado, and the prime minister is obviously organized the best friend of crime." There's a dimension here in the storeroom when it's the way to express itself in relation to the country's prime minister, which I want to record once more. I know the representative Hagen as a righteous man, and I don't think he will leave that debt to the Prime Minister. I really hope that I am right – that my hope will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1693	I would also like to comment briefly on the proposals of the Central Party. With regard to proposals Nos. 17, 18 and 19, they're now drawn, and that's in and out of control. But we will therefore work to ensure that the intentions are followed up, especially in the case of Årdal, and at least for the main idea in the case of a differentiated employer's fee. But both of those issues are very big issues that deserve proper treatment, and that certainly relate to the budget. So it's not that we should not follow up in Stortinget, what we said in the election campaign, but precisely because we mean very serious what we said in the election campaign, we want to be sure that we take the best possible steps in relation to both a differentiated employer's fee and in order to secure industrial jobs, for example. in Ardal, in Carmøy and in Høyanger. As regards proposal No: 21, on hospital structure, I would like to say that the main intention of that proposal was to raise the Hill-Marta Solberg of the Workers' Party on the last day of the meeting of the Stortinget before the summer of June, and then she was confirmed by the Minister of Finance, on behalf of the Minister of Health, that in the case of hospital structure – and that was the case with food departments and feeding rooms in particular – the Government would come back to the Stortinget with it, so that the Stortinge could express itself and influence the proposed and planned restructurings. Then there may be different opinions when that matter comes, but it is strictly a matter that has already been dealt with, and where the government has expressed that this comes back to the Stortinget. There it is again that we feel that it is not necessary to vote for a proposal when it has already been notified that this is coming back to Stortinget. With slightly different reasons, we will not support those proposals, and especially the proposals that are now being drawn, but it is important to note the reasons for them. Then back to the proposals of the representative Hagen, who the government parties support. I maintain that it is unusual, although of course it has happened before, that government parties vote to such an extent for a large number of request decisions to their own government, that the government parties almost ask themselves to do a whole lot of things. Especially is it unusual after the debate we had in April, where the government parties were very principled that the Storting had to take fewer request decisions of this nature, just to re-establish respect for the Storting and these decisions. And in this debate we are in the process of making just such decisions, with the votes of the government parties. In particular, it is when government parties vote to find out something they have strongly argued against — i.e. social security funding for the care of the elderly — while we have a pension commission working. So I'm interpreting this as in and of itself an important expression of what's happened during the day. And it is that the Progress Party and the Government parties have come together again, on a rather special basis, but they have recognised that they are interdependent, that they are a parliamentary basis, and so they have now come together by supporting a wide range of proposals that have really no particular significance in addition to the fact that they show that they have a special relationship. It's an expression of this, and we've noticed that, we that belong to the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1704	I must honestly admit that I do not understand the violent excitement of the opposition regarding the proposals that exist. It is quite honest and sincere to say that what happened is that the undersigned has transformed part of these proposals so that they are consistent with what the Government can handle. Based on the idea that we're voting for what we're for, and against what we're against, you've made them like this. I can't see that there's any point; if there's a discord connected with this, we'll solve it. And it's done in this context. At the same time, I would like to make it clear – I have said it several times from the Parliamentary Chair – that this government holds all the agreements we make. It also goes on one of the questions that had been raised from SV. Of course, we keep the agreements we have concluded. So to the proposals themselves – quite briefly to which of these proposals I would recommend to the government group to vote in favour. I'll take it easy. That is proposal No. 2, which is re-edited. That is proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox That is proposal No. 5 – I stress that the disadvantages should also be addressed. That is proposal No. 8) Proposal No. 9 – and there is my clarification to SV, that of course we keep agreements. That is proposal No. 12 and that is proposal No. 14th @item: inlistbox All the other proposals I would like to call for us to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1713	I just have to tell Oddvard Nilsen that I think this whole sentence is pretty embarrassing. In my opinion, there is Carl I. Hagen in this debate, a sort of false warning about housewreck. There are some people who are such that they open the windows when they argue, to entertain the whole neighborhood. That's how all these proposals are. Then all of us are going to sit and witness that they agree on one and agree on the other, and exchange, arrange and get it back in place. Then you make some accusations, and then you apologize to the other person. Now we're all waiting in breathless excitement for Carl I. Hagen to apologize to Jon Lilletun and the Prime Minister in two minutes. This doesn't make any sense! In the long run, people are only going to get tired of politics, if this is going to be the content of the future. That's the situation this government has been in, and they're pulling into that game all the way. Now Norwegian politics has a janitor. The nearest janitor I know is Narvestad. What this government is doing is starting a relationship with Narvestad. It has been assumed that Narvestad has been lying on the sofa for a long time. Then they started to argue, and Narvestad said, "No, I take my suitcase and go!" Then he stands on the stairs and shouts, howls and bells, and then the government parties come begging after saying, "Come back! Come back! We're going to go with half of what you want. Yes, say Narvestad and move back in on the sofa. And now he's lying there. The rest of us just have to hope that they close the windows soon and keep the quarrel to themselves, so that we can run politics for the rest of us. This just doesn't work!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1723	I wonder if Kristin Halvorsen has a spy in the big group of the Progress Party, because I've been referred to as Narvestad all day. Eli doesn't like to be referred to as Mrs. Narvestad. There is probably a core policy in the debate that is now taking place. I don't think Kristin Halvorsen's humorous way of doing it is something that in case raises the quality of what she herself criticizes others for. What we have highlighted in the Progress Party on some occasions is that politicians must take responsibility for the consequences of their policies. It is a principle that Henrik Syse wrote a lot about when it came to foreign policy, in a chronicle in the Evening Post this summer, that where there is a clear consequence of a policy that has been pursued, an indirect responsibility for that consequence cannot be waived. There have been events in Europe, for example: in France, this summer, where state councils have said: it is my responsibility. I take responsibility. We feel that there is a tendency in Norway to waive responsibility for the consequences of the policy under consideration. There may be consequences that are not intended, planned and intended, but there may be consequences that are relatively obvious and that others may have pointed out. We have pointed out the consequences of government policy in some areas. In this way, I have used some clear expressions that I understand are perceived differently than what has really been my intention. I have used a metaphor that the sitting government appears in a way with its policy as a good friend of organized crime that engages in the smuggling of alcohol and tobacco. And it is a fact that sky-high, legal prices in Norway, compared to lower and falling prices in other countries, suggest increased smuggling to Norway. This also points out our police officers. When you stand for a policy that maintains the sky-high profit margin, yes, then it is a consequence of the policy that you are welcomed by those who live by the difference between legal prices in Norway and the prices for which you can buy the goods in other countries, i.e. the profit margin. It's actually a relationship. I feel that you don't want to take responsibility for the consequences of your policy, but I have no problems with my statements earlier today, saying that if these people have been perceived as being somehow meant to be private people, then I'm sorry that it can be perceived that way, and that I have spoken in such a way that it can be perceived that way. My opinion has simply been to present the consequence of the government's policy, and I think that the government should take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1736	I think it is right to note at the end of the debate on the throne, which is traditionally the opposition's debate, that there is no record of a storm against the co-operation government sitting there, and much less has any alternative. Before this debate, there was a tendency for the largest opposition parties to play with each other about who was going to contribute to a responsible budget – a responsible budget must be allocated to a large part, but we do not intend to contribute, others must – instead of perhaps looking for the possibility of contributing and gaining influence on policy. There was also a tendency from the opposition to say that we have no faith in, and perhaps no desire for, a parliamentary situation in which there is a change of government, but others have to make sure that it is not. It's not our responsibility. I don't think that's a good idea. All opposition parties must, in particular in a situation of a minority government, see their responsibilities for both a responsible budget and that one does not enter into a parliamentary situation if one does not wish. In this way I think it is promising that this debate has been calm and no rush. But that doesn't mean that we in the Government and I as Prime Minister carry on some illusion that it is now free, and that, for example, it is. becomes a simple budgetary procedure. It is probably complicated, but I am glad that this debate has taken the turn it has done. Then I must say that the representative Kristin Halvorsen is now acting more and more as a political commentator. She does it sometimes in funny ways, so I understand that she, among other things. shall be a splitter and an commentator in all places, in sight and in hearing. But where does SV's policy go? It'll be less and less to hear about. What is SV going to want with his left-wing socialism? Because it's a left-wing socialist party. It's supposed to be a modern, green party, but the red one? And international solidarity, which was one of the starting points for the formation of the Socialist People's Party, which was the precursor of SV, we almost never hear SV talk more about! Is it because this doesn't pay off? No, let's get the parties' policies out, and let people and the media comment on it. I think that a throne debate that ends up in political commentator activities has taken a little crazy turns. Let me also say that the reorganization of the debate on the throne, and in particular the fact that it precedes the financial speech, I fully agree that there has been a win.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1747	I think it is necessary to comment on the vigilance that the Prime Minister is now repeating, which he has made several times in TV debates and radio debates today, and also in the staging room, namely that it was the opposition parties that made an acute situation before this debate, and that they have now calmed down. First of all, he creates the notion that Oddvard Nilsen also had that there are three opposition parties. Oddvard Nilsen mentioned the Progress Party, SV and the Workers' Party. Well, I've never had the ambition to appear as a member of an overall opposition together with the Progress Party, because the Labour Party and the Advance Party stand for completely different values and for completely different policies, and we're never going to emerge with a comprehensive overall opposition policy for this government. On the other hand, the Government should be concerned that it is constantly referring to the Progress Party as an opposition party in line with other opposition parties, when this debate and also the vote now confirm that this government has made itself dependent on the Progress Party, that the Progress Party is not a common opposition party, but is the parliamentary basis of the Government, for which the Government has now bowed, and that the government parties vote for things for which they really know it is wrong to vote, in order to appease the Progress Party. There has been no vote in favour of what you are in favour of; there has been a vote in favour of an investigation into what you are against, namely the popular funding of care for the elderly. The second is that the government itself has contributed to the crisis mood. It started in the spring, before Easter, when you threatened with cabinet questions on kindergarten settlements, seafarers and pensions, and you hoarded the mood. Then there was no crisis, and then you were almost surprised at it. Then one started again by the party leader Svarstad Haugland was out in Dagsrevyen and dismissed his parliamentary basis. She said she didn't believe anything in cooperation with the Progress Party anymore. Then came the Minister of Finance and said that it was as likely that a budgetary settlement was made with the Labour Party as with the Progress Party, although the Progress Party is the Right-wing political twin and at least this government's parliamentary basis. Then the prime minister was out in the newspaper, before the budget was presented, and began to point out who would be his successor if there was a government crisis in the budget. So there is no doubt about who has contributed to the crisis mood, hoarded the mood and created a crisis debate at an too early stage. It's the government parties. So it's good that they calm down a little bit, but then the Prime Minister should have a completely different representation of reality than the one he's given on a couple of occasions today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1756	I think it's quite remarkable that the Prime Minister is trying to end a throne debate in Stortinget and make it so elegant that by attacking one of the opposition parties, it's going to run counter to his own program. Such behavior can only be due to the characteristics that I allowed to replace, striking quite ramsalt. For the performance we have seen here today, which is really just coming up in the extension of what Jens Stoltenberg summarized about the last years – or not relations – between the government parties and the Progress Party, is not a very worthy performance. What is going to end here, before the budgetary procedure starts again, is that the government parties are half-way approving their parliamentary basis, and the Progress Party is well placed before the budget debate starts again. That's how it is, and there's nothing else to do but say it out loud just like it is. SV will continue to challenge this government and the Christian People's Party on diversity policy, on international solidarity, on environmental policy – in all areas where we know that very many of the Christian People's Party's voters feel a closer relationship with the left-hand side of Norwegian policy than with the right-hand side and the Progress Party. In fact, I believe that an important reason why SV is very upset is that we are largely concentrating on presenting our own policies. We will continue to do so, and we will continue to make proposals in these areas, because we believe it is important in the future. So let the Christian People's Party settle with itself if they're in the right company.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1763	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1771	We shall then be voting on the proposals under agenda item No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1778	During the debate, 21 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1-16, by Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 17-21, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Center Party. Proposals Nos. 17, 18 and 19 are later drawn. The proposals have been distributed in the Chamber. The President drew attention to the fact that the proposals of the Progress Party were distributed in a new edition, in which the proposals No. 2, 4, 5, 9, 12 and 14 are available in a modified form. With regard to these proposals by the Progress Party which have been amended in the course of the debate, it is the President's view that there are some changes in reality. However, in the President's view, the changes in reality are not so far-reaching as to affect whether or not the amended proposals can be voted on. The President therefore proposes that the amended proposals be put to the vote, even if the President feels that there is something unfortunate about changes in so many proposals so late in the debate – then he thinks of those representatives who have not been involved in the process of change and therefore have limited opportunity to assess the changes. No one has spoken against the President's motion for a vote. Then it is first the proposals No. 20 and 21, from the Centre Party, to be admitted to voting. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to implement an action plan for the conservation of Norwegian cultural landscapes.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to propose a plan to ensure a decentralised food supply and an adequate emergency medical offer throughout the country. The plan must aim at preventing the compartmentalisation and centralisation of such offers that can now be carried out within the specialist health service.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1820	Then the proposals of the Progress Party are taken up for voting. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1, 7, 10, 11, 13, 15 and 16. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to investigate and assess a timetable for a significant reduction in border trade and organised smuggling of alcohol and tobacco through the harmonisation of Norwegian fees at the level of charges in our neighbouring countries and to promote this issue to the Stortinget in spring 2004.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all professionally approved hospitals/clinics have agreements with health establishments independent of an operating agreement with the municipality so that the overall treatment capacity in the healthcare system can be fully exploited.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The Government is authorised to open oil drilling in the Lofoten-Barents Sea.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is authorised to guarantee that the State covers the additional costs incurred by gas power plants in Norway as a result of special Norwegian emission requirements.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit a communication on the municipal structure of the future by the end of 2004’.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to maintain the principle that marine resources are regarded and managed as national resources by national administrative bodies.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government, in future discussions with the social partners on the forthcoming wage settlement, asks for tax relief as a contribution to avoid a cost-effective and competitive settlement.’ No other party has notified that they support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1870	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3 and 6. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate and assess the creation of several user-driven research funds for clusters such as the offshore cluster, the maritime cluster, the marine and biomarine clusters, the process industrial cluster, the ICT cluster, the energy cluster and the like, and to promote a communication to the EEA in spring 2004.’» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a proposal for the method and time of implementation for the removal of ‘negative effect’ in the coordination of public service pensions with the benefits of popular interest in line with the decision of the Storting on 15 June 2001.’ The Central Party has notified that it supports these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1892	Then the proposals No. 4, 5, 9 and 14 up to voting. Proposal No. 4 sounds in changed form: ‘The Government asks the Government to determine the savings that can be achieved in terms of better competitive conditions for business and saved lives and traffic damage by extending the main road network to 4 blocks of motorway with a centre line on sections with a traffic greater than 10 000 ÅDT and two-field motorway standard on the other main road network, as well as an estimate of the investment costs of any such expansion. This is presented to the size of the national transport plan’» Proposal No. 5 sounds in changed form: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the benefits and disadvantages of financing the costs of elderly care services in line with disability pension, sickness benefit, unemployment benefit and old-age pension as a system in which the money follows the user who chooses the approved care services and presents this issue to the Stortinget before the end of 2004.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds in changed form: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an overview of the differences between Norwegian emission requirements and environmental taxes between the countries with which Norwegian companies compete, primarily in the EEA, America, Canada, Australia and Japan, and to bring to the UK the benefits and disadvantages of any harmonisation, and the consequences of achieving the Kyoto targets.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds in modified form: ‘The Government asks the Government to put forward principles and procedures for the future location of asylum recipients and the settlement of refugees in the RNB 2004’. Right, Christian People’s Party and Left have notified that they support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1924	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2, 8, and 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1927	President! I would like to vote in favour of proposal No. 8 and against proposals Nos. 2 and 12, which means you have to break up this voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1934	So the representative, Jan Simonsen, will vote against proposal No. 2 and 12, but for proposal No. Eight. So let's first deal with the proposals. 2 and 12 for voting. Proposal No. 2 sounds in changed form: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider different ways of making Norway’s capital strength a competitive advantage for Norwegian competitive business including possible fund structures.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds in changed form: ‘By the end of 2003, the Government asks the Government to bring to the fore the consequences of the transition to a free labour market in the new EEA area where the issue of the use of transitional arrangements and other measures to prepare the country for labour immigration from new EU Member States is discussed.’ The Government Parties and the Central Party have announced that they will support these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1958	Then there is still to be a vote on proposal No. Eight. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an overview and to present a statement to the Grand Duchy on the maintenance situation of primary and secondary school buildings during the first half of 2004’.» The parties to the Government, the Central Party and the representative of Jan Simonsen will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-06-2.ana.ud2596e1975	The President will then propose that His Majesty the King speak to the 148th. The staging of its opening and notification of the state and governance of Norway is annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
