ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e43	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Reikvam, on behalf of the rapporteur, who is a member of the Laging House.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e52	With this case, we move on towards equality between employees and students in relation to the requirement of a proper and good working environment. This is a follow-up to a previous decision of the Stortinget to establish a supervisory system. Let me express my pleasure at the fact that the Department is now proposing that the Labour Inspectorate should also use the established supervisory systems against students. I think that's the best system, precisely because the Labour Inspectorate has experience and knowledge of supervision. The Labour Inspectorate may not have the capacity to follow up everything, but we hope that it can build up its capacity so that it can take on the task of doing a real job even in relation to students. I am also pleased that the Government is going in to build a bridge between the learning environment committees and the Labour Inspectorate, by ensuring that the newly established learning environment committees around our institutions are in close contact with the Labour Inspectorate. It is important for a good learning environment, and it also has something to do with the workplace itself and the way in which to organise work. That's why it's important that we have this contact and that we build bridges between these different environments. We think this is good. We are completing the work we have started. Then I hope that the students have got an important and good tool in their work to create a good and proper working environment around our institutions. I take up SV and the Central Party's alternative proposal to change Section 14 paragraph. 2nd@item: inlistbox It goes into the composition of something. We suggest that the students have two representatives in this body.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e67	The representative Rolf Rikvam has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e70	The amendment of the law comes as a result of previous decisions taken here in Stortinget. The Progress Party has taken part in the formation of a majority for these decisions. This means that we are satisfied with the results of the Committee's work on the student working environment. Now it is unanimous that the Labour Inspectorate is given the responsibility to carry out the continuous supervision in relation to the physical and mental working environment of the students, with sanctions that are known and accepted in the workplace. And then the Progress Party is satisfied. The only point where we differ from the other parties is linked to the accreditation and evaluation body NOCUT. NOCUT was intended to be an independent body that, by virtue of its knowledge and high integrity, would contribute to ensuring the high international standards and quality of our educational institutions. The party of progress will not claim that NOCUT, as it appears today, meets these criteria, and we perceive that as sad and search, because this will have consequences over time. Our view from the treatment of the Mjøs Committee's position and the University and Higher Education Act is therefore still on the table. However, as long as we have a quality body for higher education and vocational schools, the Progress Party is of the opinion that this body must and should be responsible for the quality of the whole educational chain, regardless of the level or ownership of each institution, on the basis of the principle that little is better than nothing. We are therefore promoting a proposal in line with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e77	The representative of Ursula Evje has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e80	A Joint Committee agrees with the Ministry that the Management Board of the National Agency for Quality of Education (NOCUT) is to be expanded in the light of its new tasks. The Committee further asked the Ministry, in connection with the extension, to consider the appointment of people with a professional background who are not currently represented on the board, and to include the higher education sector and the vocational education sector as the environment in question. When NOCUT is given extended responsibilities, it is important that the composition of the board reflects the work on which the body is to take decisions. The Central Party therefore supports the extension. But the Center Party will go one step further. Today, students are represented with one member of the board. In view of the fact that NOCUT is to be representative of the environments that are decided upon, it is important that students from different environments are also represented in the board. For this reason, SV and the Centerpartie suggest that the number of students on the board should be expanded from one to two. This means, as the proposal in the setting indicates, an extension of the board of directors to three people, from five to eight, where two representatives of the board are students. It is in line with the announcement of the hearing proposal from both the Norwegian Student Union and the National Federation of Students. The Centre Party has stressed this in our assessment of extending the Board of Directors by three and not two representatives, as proposed by the Ministry. When it comes to the other area of the proposition, the Center Party believes it is good that the Labour Inspectorate should be given responsibility for the supervision of the students' learning environment. I would also like to stress that we are pleased that the proposal strengthens the position of the Educational Environment Selection and thus also ensures that students are informed about matters relating to the learning environment. Then the Labour Inspectorate is given extended responsibilities. It must also mean that resources are allocated to the Labour Inspectorate to enable it to carry out the tasks for which it is now responsible. This must be addressed by the Government in the context of the 2004 State budget. Then it is that the budget for the Labour Inspectorate is in another committee. It is therefore important that there is contact between the Education Committee and the Municipal Committee so far in order to ensure that the Ministry does so today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e91	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 904]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e107	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will suggest that there are no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e116	Work on the proposal for a new law on electronic communications has been a demanding exercise in many ways. The law is intended to replace existing telecommunications laws and standards for the transmission of television signals and covers all forms of electromagnetic signals. At the same time, existing legislative proposals are also intended to implement all adopted acts in the field of electronic communications within the EU. Pursuant to the EEA Agreement, those acts are to be implemented by 25 July 2003. It has been important for Norwegian industrial interests to have legislation harmonised with the legislation of other countries. It will contribute to ensuring equal treatment for Norwegian enterprises across the EEA territory. The main objective of the current regulation adopted in 1995 was to contribute to a reasonable transition from a legal monopoly to a competitive market. The new law and regulation are intended to take account of the increasing convergence in this area. The distinction between the different sectors, such as IT, broadcasting and telecommunications services, is reduced. This will lead to structures which are modified across the different sectors, which in turn underline the importance of international harmonisation. The new law will continue to be a sector-specific regulation. This means that no abuse must be detected until specific regulatory obligations are imposed. Providers may be subject to obligations under the precautionary principle or ex ante regulation. The legislative proposal aims at minimising the regulatory regime to a minimum, with a legal framework ensuring the right of individuals and businesses to provide communications networks and services. It is the Committee's view that existing legislative proposals will contribute to economic development and innovation across the country. The aim is to stimulate a policy on nutrition, which will contribute to growth in existing businesses, public administration, health and education. In this context, the proposal for a new law on electronic communications will be a crucial contribution to a district policy that can generate growth in all parts of the country. The Committee has made a serious effort to reach maximum agreement in the legislative text. It is clear from the proposals that we have achieved a long way in that direction. The motivation for an optimal consensus has been that in this way we will be able to provide the best possible basis for the practice that will take place after the decision. The area of electronic communications is a relatively new area, which is constantly changing. In addition, the sector is highly internationalised. All will therefore benefit from a common platform of industry actors to develop and seek a meaningful partnership in the development of the enormous potential of the industry. Too much disagreement at political level could easily lead to a more focused industry in the future on competitive confrontations rather than cooperation, thus increasing the risk of our position becoming weaker internationally – a deterioration in which everyone would have lost weight. The proposal for a law on electronic communications is a difficult but very important area. The Committee has therefore been in close contact with the industry in its work on the proposition. In addition to conversations with different operators, we have had a separate hearing. The proposal presented today bears the hallmark of this contact. We've taken the different recordings seriously, and we've tried to be present. I therefore hope that through the contacts that have been made, the industry has learned to appreciate the cooperation with the political authorities. The various areas in which there has been a discussion within the Committee have been tried to clarify. A theme that may seem more academic but has nevertheless had a political impact is the concept of competition used in the proposal. As is apparent from the purpose paragraph, the term «sustainable competition» is introduced. The majority agree to use this. A minority proposes ‘active competition’, which is the concept applied by the Competition Act. The introduction of the term «sustainable competition» does not mean disregarding the importance of an active, profitable and effective competition, but seeks, through the use of sustainable competition, to make visible the importance of bringing in actors who take responsibility for a development in the area of long-term sustainability, credibility and efficiency that also benefit users, and which takes care of the national interests we have in the area. With the term «sustainable competition», we also say that competition is not an objective in itself, but an instrument that is important for the development of this industry. However, in order to do so within the framework otherwise formulated, it must also be done in cooperation with State activities. Not only state regulatory authorities, but also the state as an actor must get into the picture, so that we can develop a functioning market, where all, including those who have to live on the outermost island, have access to these services. Another complex issue is the appeal procedure. Following the submission of the proposal to the Storting, a specific situation arose as a result of the agreement concluded by a majority here in the Chamber in connection with the relocation of different State supervision. In this agreement, it appeared that a prerequisite for agreement on relocation was that no action should be taken on the complaint in relation to the supervision. It was a central question for this area. We have per cent. today, a three-thirds appeal procedure. It was proposed to be amended by the Government, and the Committee agreed that something should be done with it. The question was to what extent we could get it within the agreement that had been concluded. What we've been given is first and foremost that there is agreement on a two-part arrangement among the majority. There is a minority in that case, but the majority is in favour of a two-part appeal procedure. This implies the closure of the State Telecommunication Management Board and a mechanism is established in which the Ministry is the Board of Appeal in respect of matters dealt with by the Post and Telecommunications Authority. At the same time, it is agreed that this complaint mechanism must be anchored in the industry, in the sense that the industry can have confidence in the proceedings that are taking place. Until today, we have met with examples of handling complaints that have gone over time so long that the complaints themselves have been anti-competitive. There is no consensus in the Committee on how to deal with time use, except that the majority consider time use to be a problem. The Workers' Party has proposed that the handling of the complaint in the Ministry should not exceed three months. The fact that we have received a two-part complaint is a good response to the opinions expressed in discussions with the industry, and we believe that we have provided a basis for the industry to have much more confidence in the complaint system. It is important that this complaint mechanism meets industry confidence, precisely because the complaint mechanism is one of the prerequisites for developing a national relationship between industry and regulatory authorities, and that it does not help to ensure that the complaint mechanism is simply a blindway in the system, and that most, and especially the major players, will use the possibilities to raise cases with ESA in Brussels. There have been different opinions on the obligation to register in this proposal. It has been important for the Workers' Party to do what is possible to enable us to have a nationwide network in a system where competition works, as much as the availability of the various is optimal. The registration system has been comprehensive and has shown the availability of a significant part of the different networks to which it is possible to connect, but per. Today, the use of these networks may have been somewhat limited. From that point of view, the Government has proposed to abolish the registration obligation, because its application has been too small. The Workers' Party's view is that little use is a poor argument for the importance of the registration of these networks also in the future, and we stress not only the availability of the individual user, but that there will also be a significant security policy aspect by providing an overview of the networks that exist around the country. In connection with the mobile message, which was dealt with in Stortinget earlier this year, the issue of national roaming was addressed. In this context, it was stated that a possible system of national roaming had to be enshrined in a new law on electronic communications. This has been the subject of the Workers' Party and proposes that national roaming be opened. On the part of the government parties, with the support of the Socialist Left Party, it has been stated that national roaming should not necessarily be included in the legal text, but verbally that this must be available and that what has previously been expressed by the majority in the context of mobile communications should also apply in the context of the proposal for a law on electronic communications. I said earlier that a law on electronic communications is a complicated area. We are facing an ever-changing sector. Convergence is increasing, in parallel with the increasing internationalisation. The Committee has tried to take this challenge seriously, and it is our hope that the present proposal will contribute to a good, stable and predictable regime in the field of electronic communications. Electronic communication is an industry of significant growth and could play a crucial role in the growth of other sectors of the economy. I also said in the past that this is a system that will greatly contribute to making district policy in this country perhaps even more effective than one has experienced, and it will help to make the availability of those who live far beyond the systems of power much more accessible. With this I address the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e167	The representative, Bjørgov Froyn, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e170	The Norwegian Electronic Communications Act becomes an integral part of European legislation, as the EEA Agreement draws us into the European harmonisation process. The equal application of legislation as an instrument for competition in the internal market has become an important driving force in the revision of the regulatory framework in the EU. Harmonisation of the framework conditions ensures that Norwegian establishments operating in the EEA territory are treated in the same way throughout the EEA territory as those with which they are known in Norway. There is reason to thank the rapporteur for the flexibility and creatively requested in the submission of this opinion in the Committee. The case rapporteur has carefully explained the setting here, and my task will be to briefly highlight the setting seen with the eyes of the Right and Government parties. In this regard, the Committee has acted in its best interests. In addition to the fact that the government parties have a majority with the Workers' Party, the government parties, after all possible majority formations, also have a majority on the other issues. As I said, it is a broad majority who, in relation to the purpose paragraph of the law, express the balance between sustainable and active competition. Similarly, it is a broad majority who seek to shorten the time spent in review procedures by reducing the number of complaints to go through only two bodies — the Post and Telecommunications Authority and the Ministry. The rapporteur has explained this. It is also important to note that the majority has underlined the need for existing regulatory policies to be pursued until new policies are established and implemented in this area, so as to avoid a policy vacuum in the emerging regime change situation. As I said, the complaint institute is an important part of the regulatory regime, but this is not just about the nature of the complaint institute. It is equally important to focus on the time spent in the handling of complaints and the consequences of time spent in the handling of complaints. It is therefore important to stress that a broad majority here asks the Ministry to consider whether it is appropriate to authorise regulatory authorities to fix the time of correction at a time different from the time of adoption and, where appropriate, to propose such a basis. This is what we mean, for example. may be motivating for the implicit at the earliest possible opportunity to obtain the correct price, where appropriate. The majority distinguishes teams with the rapporteur with regard to the setting of a specific deadline for the decision of the appeal. The Government Parties here have a majority, together with SV, in which we ask the Ministry to draw up indicative procedural deadlines for the various Boards of Appeal in order to reduce the length of proceedings. Moreover, the majority do not share the views of the rapporteur on unconditional registration in the sector. It also refers to a robust consultation opinion, where regulatory homes are considered sufficient to allow registration in cases where this would be necessary. A broad majority indicates that the processing of the mobile message expressed support for the use of national roaming in the mobile network in general and also opened up this instrument in the UMTS network when actors with significant market power emerge. The majority remain positive for the use of national roaming, but do not consider it appropriate to legislate on the different regulatory instruments, rather national roaming. Last but not least, a reflection on powers legislation, which has been highlighted both through the consultation within the Committee and through the Committee's own assessment of the law on electronic communications. Gradually, the Committee has come to the conclusion that authorisation and regulatory support are necessary, not least in such a sector where the changes take place rapidly in many fields and where precise and detailed legislation is impossible at all times. The Committee's perception of complexity and difficulty in overseeing all the detailed implications of the Committee's work is likely to have brought it right up to the time of delivery and debate. There is overall good reason to recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e198	The main objective of a new law on electronic communications is to facilitate effective and effective competition between market players and harmonisation in relation to European legislation. Today, we are going away from a telecommunications law that had as its basis the old monopoly system, and into a new law where the main purpose is a market where competition works. The proposal for a new law aims to facilitate sustainable competition. There is no need to be an error in it, but the word sustainable has created some uncertainty among market players. Since one of the main objectives of the law is to facilitate effective competition, the Progress Party considers that this should to a large extent be included in the purpose paragraph. Therefore, we propose that «sustainable competition» be replaced by «active competition» and the reason is, of course, that this removes some uncertainty about what is in the word sustainable. This uncertainty is also highlighted in the comments on the purpose paragraph, where the majority has had to explain what sustainable competition means. It is also important for the Progress Party to facilitate the promotion of innovation and industrial development in the context of the law. Electronic communications is a high-tech area, where business involvement should be facilitated, which can help ensure Norway a place on the high-tech map. With regard to competition, the Progress Party considers that to the greatest extent possible, it should facilitate active competition in which operators compete on equal terms. In order to achieve such competition, it is essential that virtual operators do not do so, which will also ensure the diversity of the service provision. Nor does the promotion party see it as an objective to expand a large number of networks, but to ensure access to the networks in question on a permanent basis. Given both diversity and competition, a large number of such actors are desirable. When the Progress Party is in a majority where national roaming is not regulated, this is not because roaming is not important. National roaming is essential for the functioning of competition, but we do not consider it appropriate to legislate on this regulatory issue. But I would like to point out the importance of allowing national roaming in the UMTS network, especially given that a new concession has been issued. Today’s legislation imposes specific obligations on operators with significant market power. In order to maintain competition, these obligations are continued in the new law. Such regulation could, of course, have been left to competition authorities, but the most effective way of ensuring competition is that it is directly incorporated into the law. The main difference between the ordinary competition rules and the law will be that one by the new law does not have to demonstrate the abuse of a strong market position in order to implement regulations. We have seen in recent years that the large network companies have kept the small companies away from them through complaints. This has happened by making use of a system where it was possible to withdraw complaint handling over a long period of time. This has in many cases resulted in the small operators giving up, which has weakened competition, with correspondingly high prices and poor offers. Therefore, the Committee has decided that the appeal procedure should be a genuine complaint procedure and not an institution which provides for the possibility of obstruction. The Progress Party has therefore taken up the proposal made by the Government to establish a complaint subject for electronic communications to finalise complaints after they have been dealt with by the Postal and Telecommunications Authority. Such a complaint will ensure the prompt and effective handling of complaints and will stop those who will exploit the system by withdrawing the proceedings. Unfortunately, it seems that only the Progress Party supports the Government's proposal. In the former telecommunications law, Telenor had special social obligations. The Party considers that it would be wrong to continue such a scheme in a competitive market. To impose such a task on a specific company would result in higher prices for the service to subscribers, and they would have to pay for something that they have neither ordered nor received. For this reason, the Progress Party considers that such societal tasks or services must be paid by the public. On this basis, I take up the proposal that I have referred to, and the other proposals that the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e219	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e222	Electronic communications characterize our everyday life to such an extent that we take it for granted. We pay bills over electronic payment terminals, we take money out in electronic mini-banks, we deliver the tax return on the Internet, we send fines by e-mail and text messages every day, and we order holiday trips over the Internet, while we watch news on cable TV or accept broadcasts via satellites in orbit around the world. We want an even wider broadband. We wonder how long it is until we can call our refrigerator and ask if the milk has expired, or why this is not yet the way my DVD player can download movies on the Internet on its own, while I am listening to an item about nanotechnology in the program "Value to know" on P2. The law we are about to deal with today deals with all of this. There is a single legislation covering the entire field of electronic communications. In fact, I believe that despite the fact that this affects people's everyday lives so much, we have managed to implement a treatment of this law without a single newspaper article or a single radio broadcast. This is a law that affects a number of policy areas. I've at least been able to list six at the speed. It concerns business policy. Much of the basis for the value creation of a knowledge-based business is in the field of electronic communications. This is the industry we're going to live on when maybe in the future we don't have oil left. Secondly, it is also about consumer policy. The availability of good and cheap electronic services across the country is important consumer policy. Thirdly, of course, we are dealing with district policy. The basis for expanding digital infrastructure lies in this law, and it may be one of the most important regional policy instruments of the future. Fourth, there is also a lot of ethics and ethical policy in this law. To what extent can we in the future think that we should be able to have a life without leaving electronic tracks? Do we still have the right to move freely without being observed, without the big brother seeing us? Fifthly, it is about security and preparedness policy. Electronic communications are vulnerable and can expose us to, among other things, international terrorism. Sixthly, I have found out that this law is about space policy, as it is explicitly stated in this law state's recourse responsibility if a space object were to damage a satellite. There's almost no limit to what we're going to deal with today. I'm glad that the majority today is presenting a position that is very much in agreement. We're happy that we get a law that's dynamic, technology-neutral. An electronic communications law is a power of attorney. It has to be a long way to go, because this is an area that evolves so fast. I would like to comment on some points in which the Committee has amended the Government's original proposal, first of all the complaint procedure. Policy developments in this area must be made through individual decisions in principle. That is why the Post and Telecommunications Authority has been given great authority under the law. When the government originally proposed that decisions to be appealed after the Post and Telecommunications Authority had taken them were to be made by an independent complaint subject, this was by far a kind of political abdication from the whole field. There were only issues of major social importance that could appeal from the independent complaint subject to the King of State Council. Because of the agreement that the rapporteur has presented in connection with the relocating of State supervision, something else has happened. The agreement means that today's appeal procedures cannot be changed, unless the Right, Labour Party, Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party agree on this. We've agreed on a change. I think the change we've agreed on is good and important. It will simplify the procedure over which many of the people who have been in consultation with us have complained too long. We now have a two-institutional appeal system in which the appeal is decided in the department. I think it's a reasonable solution, which will lead to faster. But most importantly, we maintain political control over policy developments in this very exciting and dynamic field. So to § 1-1, purpose paragraph. I am very pleased that a joint committee, including the Progress Party, is united on the addition that it will be a purpose for this law to stimulate innovation and industrial development. I believe that this is an important business policy issue. How competent we are in this area will be one of the most important test cases of whether we are able to pursue an offensive industrial policy for the future. Then to § 2-10, security and preparedness. This law states that the security required for electronic communications shall be provided by the provider, ‘in peace, crisis and war’. It is a comprehensive matter to add. Our starting point is that security and preparedness should be a social responsibility and cannot be left solely to private companies. The costs of this security and preparedness must also be borne by society. Therefore, I am pleased that the Committee in the fourth paragraph of Section 2-10 specifies that companies should be compensated for the real additional costs arising from security and emergency measures. Although this is essentially a competition law, there are also areas in electronic communications where competition does not exist, and perhaps one will ever exist. It is largely dealt with under Section 5. To take Section 5-3 first: The fact that we have to have a coast radio is important for safety at sea. And the fact that we're also going to have good electronic communications on Svalbard is a national responsibility we're going to take, and it's not subject to competition. When, under this law, the State is required to enter into agreements with special companies to cover this responsibility, I am today pleased that the Committee agrees that the additional costs of doing so will be borne by the State. It provides increased assurance that these services will be maintained. So to Section 5-1, the universal services: fixed telephony and our telephone network is such a service. The historical ownership of this has Telenor. The manner in which it is handled is fully agreed in the Committee as described in Section 5-1. I am also pleased that it will be legislated, as it has been in the past, that these services should be basic services to which everyone in the whole country should have equal access. So to Section 2-8, third paragraph, that's the only point where SV doesn't belong to the majority. I'll start by saying that's what I'm satisfied with. The second paragraph of Section 2-8 concerns the possibility for the government to provide a regulation on the storage of traffic data for a specific period of time for police use for surveillance and investigation purposes. I am pleased that a unanimous committee has said that this duty, even if it is given a prescription helmet, should be presented to the Stortinget for final approval. These are very complicated privacy issues. The right to move freely without being observed may be threatened if data are to be stored, for example: from mobile companies, which can determine where most of us have been with relatively high accuracy during the last year – or two. However, SV, together with the Progress Party, chooses to vote against the third paragraph, because we want to get the matter up to a thorough review when it is presented to the Stortinget for final approval. Now I wasn't meant to go into space policy – there's no disagreement either. But I've touched on most of the points in the setting that have been discussed, and with this relatively certain that the law we've been given is forward-looking, because it's dynamic, and because it takes on innovation and business development. It provides political guidance because the appeal body goes to the department. I think it will ensure good services all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e266	In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that Norway will continue to be among the most advanced countries in the world for the use of electronic communications. We must be a driver for the development of both new technical solutions and new content products. Electronic communications will be essential for the development of existing businesses, public administration, health and education in Norway. The Christian People's Party therefore agrees that it is important for Norwegian business interests to have legislation harmonised with the legislation of other countries, as now decided in the EU and to be implemented in the Member States from 25 July 2005. The implementation ensures equal treatment for Norwegian enterprises throughout the EEA territory. The Christian People's Party is committed to Norway being a country where new jobs and new companies are created in electronic communications. At the same time, it is important that products developed in Norway can become new export articles. There is considerable knowledge in Norway in this field. Therefore, further value creation and increased exports will be possible. The Christian People's Party is concerned that in this context the state has a major and important responsibility to help and stimulate such development. In the Christian People's Party, we are particularly concerned that a well-developed offer in electronic communications will be an important district policy instrument. Good, reasonable and forward-looking electronic communications services must be ensured throughout the country. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Ministry that the new legislation must be in place, among other things. the rapid development of technologies and markets, the principle of technology neutrality and minimum regulation, the balance between legal certainty and predictability for operators, while providing the regulatory authorities with the necessary flexibility to facilitate new markets, new actors and sustainable competition; There has been an overall objective for the Christian People's Party during the examination of the law that innovation and innovation should be given good framework conditions. In the Christian People's Party, we share the objective of sustainable competition and the ambition to move from sectoral regulation to regulation through competition law. At the same time, we would point out that it is important to ensure an effective use of society's resources. Sustainable competition is defined as a market without significant market power. It shall now be for regulatory authorities to define markets and determine whether operators have significant market power. However, with Norway’s geography and housing patterns, it may be difficult to avoid actors with significant market power in certain markets. Experience with the fixed network and mobile network has already shown us. In the Christian People's Party, we are also in doubt whether it is possible and desirable to establish several nationwide fixed networks and mobile networks in addition to those that are built and that are under development. We therefore believe that it may be appropriate to regulate access to existing fixed networks and mobile networks, so that it does not stimulate the creation of several nationwide networks. The Christian People's Party has registered that the markets regulated by the law we are dealing with today are marked by a high rate of change. It is therefore difficult for authorities to make detailed regulation by law, as amending laws takes a long time. This poses a high risk of arrears in regulatory work. It is therefore necessary and desirable to allow the Ministry to regulate by law. We are primarily committed to ensuring good, reasonable and forward-looking electronic communications services across the country through the efficient use of society's resources by facilitating the development of sustainable markets that can be achieved in the longer term without State specific regulation. The new law shall apply to all types of electronic communications. This means that traditional regulatory divisions are reduced. The role of the State in the telecommunications sector has gone from own ownership, operation and financing of telecommunications networks to facilitating private operators to do so under specific conditions. The Christian People's Party is committed to establishing ordinary markets that in the future will be able to cope without extensive state regulation. At the same time, we note that in the transition between monopolistic markets to active competition, sector-specific regulation will be necessary. We therefore adhere to the principle of minimum regulation. The Christian People's Party will entrust regulatory authorities with identifying the markets that need regulation and the type of regulation to be implemented. Today’s legislation imposes specific obligations on some major operators, which are referred to as significant market players. The Christian People's Party supports the continuation of this scheme in the new law, but proposes changes to what is included in the concept of strong market power. Understanding the concept is drawn close to the concept of dominant position in competition law. An operator has significant market power when, alone or together with others, it has financial strength in a relevant market which enables it to act significantly independently of competitors, customers and consumers. The timing of the appeal correction has been debated in the Committee. When the date of the appeal is set at the time of the decision, it may be claimed that network owners have incentives to calculate excessive prices. If the operators are to get back what they have paid too much before the date of the decision, they have to go to the courts today. Where regulatory authority has the power to set a different date for correction from the date of the decision, it may be claimed that network owners are given incentives to set ‘more accurate’ prices and the market becomes more self-regulatory. The Christian People's Party shall participate in the majority which shall ask the Ministry to consider whether it is appropriate to give regulatory authority a basis for determining the timing of correction to another than the date of adoption. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party agrees that today's concession obligation for operators with significant market power will cease. Instead, it is proposed that the law should lay down, on a general basis, the obligations and rights imposed on operators. Providers with significant market power will then be given specially adapted obligations and rights that are periodically reviewed. The Christian People's Party will stress that it is of national importance that the imposed nationwide services and tasks imposed on society are continued in the new legislative and regulatory framework. The Christian People's Party will further refer to Stortinget's processing of mobile communications, where a broad majority in the Innst. S. No 192 for 2002-2003 supported the use of national roaming in mobile networks in general and opened up this instrument also in the UMTS networks when actors with significant market power emerge. We are still positive about the use of national roaming, but it does not seem appropriate to legislate on the different regulatory instruments, including national roaming. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring that users throughout the country are guaranteed good, reasonable and forward-looking electronic services. We believe that this is a prerequisite for housing, business and public welfare in the future. A maximum price mechanism was introduced in 1997 to prevent overpriced less profitable areas. We believe that there will still be a need for control of retail prices, so that prices across the country are as equal as possible. The Christian People's Party, following an overall assessment, has come to the conclusion that it is appropriate to amend today's complaint regime. The time factor in the proceedings after the day’s arrangements may contribute to a weakening of the complainant’s interest. We therefore agree with the majority that a two-committee appeal procedure should be introduced, which would result in the closure of the State Telecommunication Management Board. Furthermore, we will ask the Ministry to draw up indicative procedural deadlines for the various review bodies in order to achieve the necessary reduction of the time limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e330	The law on electronic communications to abolish the current telecommunications law and the law on standards for the transmission of television signals, which covers all forms of electronic signal, is a very comprehensive matter and one with very many details. This law should regulate an area where development takes place very quickly. The challenge is to create a regulatory framework to deal with rapid technological and market developments in the telecommunications sector, while at the same time being a governance tool for new supply and activities. The changes in this area are in the direction of merging an integrated information and communication technology sector. There will be less clear distinctions between IT, broadcasting and telecommunications services. High-quality, effective communications services will be an important input for business across all parts of the country. Good electronic communications services will therefore be of great value to business, but also to public administration and to households. I'm glad that a joint committee believes that the purpose of the new law is to ensure that users throughout the country are good, reasonable and forward-looking electronic communications services. A joint committee also stresses the importance of sewing in order to ensure good, reasonable and forward-looking electronic services for users throughout the country. The Committee believes this is a commitment for business, business and public welfare in the future. I am also pleased that a joint committee believes that there will still be a need for control of the retail price, so that prices throughout the country are as similar as possible. The central party believes it is important to continue today's universal services and societal tasks. Since Telenor is no longer to have the specific societal tasks in the concession, this must be ensured by agreement or order. We also believe that if the private actors are to be responsible for this, it should trigger the cost reimbursement of the additional costs of doing these tasks. In the Central Party we have noticed that under the USO Directive it is not possible to place broadband services under universal service obligations. We think there must be solutions that ensure the delivery of broadband services throughout the country, even where there is commercial wretchedness. Today, there is a great difference between broadband coverage for both public buildings, enterprises and the private market. The centre party believes that an offensive effort from the state is needed if the whole country is to have access to broadband in the near future. The centre party is in the majority who think that today's situation with the department as the final appeal body should be maintained. We believe that a two-committee appeal procedure should be put in place which would lead to the closure of the State Telecommunication Management Board. Furthermore, it must be stressed that the time factor in the complaint handling does not lead to a weakening of the complainant’s interests. The centre party has assessed whether it is right to set a fixed time for an appeal case to be closed. We have concluded that the Ministry should draw up guidance deadlines for the various review bodies in order to reduce the processing times. We are therefore in agreement with the plurality and wish that we should have such indicative deadlines. The Central Party has its own note on the consultation arrangements with the EU/EFTA whereby the management image is transferred from national governance powers to the EU Commission/EFTA’s monitoring body. We believe that the legislation must be designed in such a way that at least possible images are transferred from national administrations to the EU/EFTA. National considerations must be taken into account and mechanisms to ensure equivalent service provision across the country. Then Stortinget handles St.meld. No 32 for 2001-2002 and St.meld. No 18 for 2002-2003, on the situation in the Norwegian mobile market, recently, the Senterpartie clearly stated that we are not in favour of requiring access for virtual operators. Nor do we impose on resellers and service providers access requirements. We believe that access to the Internet should be based on voluntary agreements between the parties. When it comes to national roaming, we're positive about opening this up, but we don't want to impose national roaming on actors with strong market power. On the other hand, we asked during the processing of the mobile message that the government had to prepare a scheme to open up national roaming as soon as possible. We still stand firm on the positions we expressed during the processing of the mobile message, and we will, therefore, in the law on electronic communications, vote against paragraphs and in the context of this law which imposes obligations on the area against which the central party is opposed. I refer to the setting where, under different paragraphs, we have comments that signal what we want to voice against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e354	Today's debate shows that there is a broad consensus on continuing current telecommunications policy objectives in the new field of electronic communications. It is therefore still an objective to ensure that users provide good, reasonable and forward-looking services. It is also an objective to continue the universal service essential for electronic communications to all parts of the country. We will also contribute to the efficient use of society's resources through sustainable competition. I would like to underline the importance of Norway being a country for business development and innovation in terms of both technical solutions and new service content. It is an objective of the Government to facilitate the creation of new jobs related to electronic communications. With broad political agreement on key and important issues, the framework conditions should facilitate the continued provision of electronic communications in Norway to be among the most important in Europe and in the world. The attitude we are discussing here today, and the legislative amendments that underpin the vote, update telecommunications legislation in relation to technical and market developments. The liberalisation of the telecommunications market with a broad introduction of competition in the form of freedom of establishment was completed in 1998. This has led to a large increase in the number of actors, better use of existing infrastructure and the creation of new infrastructure in the telecommunications sector. Technological developments over the same period have brought about convergence between the telecommunications, IT and media sectors, which means that the market structure is changing. It is therefore now necessary to update and revise legislation in this area. The legislative proposal is also a follow-up to the new EU regulatory package in the field of electronic communications. The EU regulatory package shall contribute to ensuring harmonised framework conditions for operators in the EEA area. It will ensure Norwegian establishments similar treatments in other EEA countries to those with which they are known from Norway. The legislative proposal also contains national adaptations which, in my view, will give us a good framework in this area. I am pleased with the support given to the bill here at Stortinget. I also take note that the complaint procedure proposed by the Government has changed. In this case, the Government and the Stortinge agree that the most important thing is to have an effective complaint procedure. I am therefore pleased that the objectives of the Government's proposal for a simplified appeal procedure have been maintained, so that in the future we can have a two-way appeal procedure. I also record that the ministry is now being made the Board of Appeal for all complaints in this area. The Government considers its proposal for a complaint mechanism to be within the framework of the new EU regulatory package. As previously mentioned in the reply to questions from the Storting on the consequences of changing the Government’s proposal for a review mechanism, there is no information on whether the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, will consider the Ministry as a Board of Appeal to meet the requirements of the EU Framework. It will only appear after the entry into force of the legislation. I would like to stress that I want to focus on meeting the Storting's wish for a more effective complaint handling. The Ministry will therefore review current review procedures for review procedures with a view to improving efficiency and speeding up treatment. In line with Stortinget's wish, I intend to draw up indicative procedural deadlines for both the Department and the Post and Telecommunications Authority. I have noticed that Stortinget wants the Ministry to assess a new tool for price regulation in the form of greater flexibility in setting the time of decision. This issue is very complex and comprehensive. We have to consider a wide range of conditions in order to ensure a system that respects the considerations of the Storting here. Furthermore, it is important that we do not create schemes that have unforeseen consequences for operators. To illustrate the complexity, I would like to point out that, among other things, must consider the amount of time needed to recover if interest is to be paid on any recovery claim if there is to be a claim for the debt of the recovery claim in the event of repeated breaches of price regulation decisions, etc. I agree with Stortinget that the issue is very interesting, and will take the initiative to launch such an investigation. I record that the members of the Workers' Party have been concerned with proving to the operators almost any cost of a social nature that might be incurred. I would like to emphasise that the operators are already compensated for a number of additional costs that are incurred in connection with, among other things. safety and preparedness. In addition, the Government's proposal provides a clear basis for covering disproportionate costs that may be incurred by the provider in this area. The government’s proposals are linked to disproportionate expenditure because the safety and preparedness measures are also of great benefit to the operators themselves. Providers are dependent on maintaining a certain level of security in their own networks in order to ensure their customers' safe and good services over time. Therefore, investments in network security are an input to deliver attractive services that people will have in a competitive market. Therefore, network safety costs should not be shifted to the country in an uncritical way. In connection with St.meld. No 47 for 2000-2001 on the security and preparedness of telecommunications in a free competitive telecommunications market, it was agreed in the Grand Duchy that financing of concrete measures could take place through fees, charges, own resources, customer financing or State budget appropriations. The most appropriate method of funding would depend on the specific measure. The final choice of the method of regulation and funding would be decided by the authorities in the specific case. Ordinary operational expenditure relating to the safety and preparedness tasks of the Postal and Telecommunications Authority should be eligible for funding from fees borne by telecommunications operators in line with other activities of the Postal and Telecommunications Authority. In the proposition, the Ministry has sought to implement St.meld. No 47. However, I take note of the Storting’s clarification that the State will cover the additional costs of the providers in terms of security and preparedness measures for information. I assume that Storting's decision in St.meld. No 47 stand by layers, so that the regulatory authority determines any compensation in the individual case. I appreciate that there is a broad political consensus on the importance of promoting security in the electronic communications networks, and that it is of paramount importance to ensure that the networks are as secure as possible in all circumstances. In this area, there may be a need for greater appropriations in the context of increased requirements for security and preparedness in the future, and I will return to this in an appropriate way. I notice that the Stortinget, in line with the Government's proposal, is asking for the possible introduction of storage obligations for traffic data to be submitted to Stortinget. The storage of traffic data is a difficult issue where two very important considerations are partly opposed, privacy considerations and the need to combat crime effectively. I want to make sure that the Storting's setting is followed up, and will come back to Stortinget if it becomes relevant to provide a regulation that lays down the storage obligation for traffic data.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e405	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 905]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e418	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e425	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ursula Evje, on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, proposal No. 2, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party The President takes first of all proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the organisation and resources of the NOCUT so that it covers the recognition and supervision of the whole educational chain and regardless of the ownership of the educational institutions.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e464	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 14 paragraph 2 shall be replaced by the following:The Governing Board shall be appointed by the King and shall consist of eight members and three alternates, two of whom shall be students. The Ministry shall appoint the Chairperson of the Management Board.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e512	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e522	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e529	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2-4, by Bjørgulf Froyn, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals Nos. 5-7, from Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e562	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 1-1 Purpose is to read:The aim of the law is to ensure good, reasonable and forward-looking electronic services to users throughout the country, through the efficient use of societal resources by facilitating effective competition, as well as stimulating business development and innovation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e621	For the first sentence of the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, 6 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first sentence of the first paragraph of Article 1 to 4 shall be replaced by the following:The authority under the law shall be the King, the Board of Appeal for Electronic Communications and the Postal and Telecommunications Authority.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e810	For the second subparagraph, an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Sections 2 to 8 of the second subparagraph shall be replaced by the following:The cost of the provider for the fulfilment of the obligation to organise is borne by the State.» The Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will go against the third paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e982	The center party has announced that they're going to the first to the third term, and it's going to wrestle over these.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e992	The fourth paragraph is added up to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e1002	The fifth subparagraph is accompanied by a proposal, No. 2, from the Workers' Party, on a fifth paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Articles 3 to 4, fifth paragraphs, shall be replaced by the following:Entrepreneurs with significant market power shall be required to provide for national roaming.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e1019	I voted wrong. I should have voted against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e1026	The vote metals shall then be 48 against the proposal and 26 for. This number of votes does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e1069	The center party has announced that they're going against the first to fourth terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e1097	The center party has announced that they are going against the second and third paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e1151	The center party has announced that they're going against the first to sixth terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e1176	The center party has announced that they are going against the first and second paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e1243	The Central Party has announced that they are going against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e1689	The party of progress has announced that they are going against the first paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e1755	The President will vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, to a fourth term. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 10 to 6 of the fourth subparagraph shall be replaced by the following:In cases where the Post and Telecommunications Authority finds that agreements between providers of electronic communications, such as subscription conditions or access conditions, do not take into account the requirement of cost-oriented prices, the Post and Telecommunications Authority may take decisions retrospectively.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e1908	There are two proposals here. That is proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party to the new fifth paragraph, and an alternative proposal, No. 7, from the Progress Party to the whole paragraph It is first voted on by the Workers' Party's proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Articles 11 to 6 new fifth paragraph shall be replaced by the following:The appeal procedure for individual cases must be closed within three months of the matter being brought before the Ministry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e1927	Proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘§ 11-6 The subject of electronic communications shall be replaced by the following:The subject of electronic communications shall decide on complaints concerning individual decisions taken by the Postal and Telecommunications Authority on the basis of, or in compliance with, this Act, with the exception of Sections 12 to 1 and 12 to 2. The subject-matter of the complaint may examine all aspects of the contested decision. The decision of the appellant in an appeal proceedings may not be contrary to any order of the EFTA Surveillance Authority within the meaning of that provision. § 9-3.Only the subject of complaints may take decisions as referred to in Section 42 of the Administrative Act. No instructions may be given to the Board of Appeal concerning the handling or settlement of individual cases. The decision of the respondent cannot be converted beyond that resulting from Sections 11 to 7. The subject of the complaint may not give instructions to postal and telecommunications authorities in individual cases which the supervision has to deal with or reverse the decision of the supervisory authority on its own initiative. The members and alternates shall be appointed by the King for four years with access to reappointment for a further four years. At the time of the first appointment, a shorter appointment period may be set for some of the members. The King decides who is to be the head and Vice-Chairman.The complainant may decide that the Chairman or Vice-Chairman may deal with matters that have to be decided without delay.The complainant shall notify the Ministry of the handling of the complaints on an annual basis.The King may provide detailed rules on the organisation and handling of complaints. The King may decide that appeals other than those referred to in the first subparagraph shall also be dealt with and settled by the Board of Appeal.’.» An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e1970	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e2241	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e2251	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e2262	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-11-lower.ana.ud2235e2273	There is no record.
