ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e26	The scheduled time for this morning’s meeting is now over. The President will propose that the meeting continue until the Odelstinget has dealt with the one case on today's map, which is likely to take approx. Half an hour. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e45	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes for the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes for each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e52	This case concerns provisions of the following laws: Law of 19 November 1982 No. 66 on the health care of the Local Health Act of 19 November 1982 No 68 on the planning of health and social services in the Municipal Law of 3 June 1983 No. 54 on the Law on Dental Services of 13 December 1991 No. 81 on social services etc. Three governments now have a number of jobs in simplifying and renewing public administration. It started with the Bondevik I Government, which presented its proposal under the heading ‘Simplifying Norway’. The work was continued by the government of Stoltenberg, under the heading «Renewal of the public sector», and is now continued by the Bondevik II Government, with the title «Modernisation of the public sector». As part of this work, efforts have been made to review state legislation aimed at municipalities, with a view to increasing the ability of municipalities and counties to make their own priorities. The Committee agrees that separate planning homes in special laws should be removed, so that community and land planning in municipalities and county municipalities are initially carried out through the systems of the Planning and Building Act. The Committee therefore agrees that the Law of 19 November 1982 No. 68 on the planning of health and social services in municipalities is repealed. There are people who have gone against this, for example. The county game in Nordland. The argument for opposing part of these planning rules is that current rules help to clarify and clarify the obligation arising from the responsibility for the provision of services. The Committee can see this argument, but considers that the municipal authorities will nevertheless be consciously responsible, and dialogue with central government authorities and priorities must be followed up and supported. In this context, it is important, says an overall committee, that municipalities are given resources and financial framework conditions that can create a good and responsible service provision. The Committee agrees with the amendments to the first paragraph of Section 1-4 of the Local Health Service Act and the fourth paragraph of Section 1-3, so that the health services of the primary industries of the municipalities are still covered by the Act. The Committee also endorses the amendment of the fifth paragraph of Section 1-3 and assumes that the need for the development of nursing homes also requires planning, even if it is not provided for in the Planning Act. An overall committee also supports the changes in the planning provisions proposed in the Dental Services Act. But we stress that the changes in this area are of such a nature that they fall under the rules of the Administration Act. This applies, inter alia, to: provisions relating to certain aspects resulting from the decision of the county. We would like to point out that the right to appeal should not be impaired, and that decisions that may be appealed against should not be restricted. We also believe that there must still be a planned work in the field of public dentistry, and that it is important to cooperate and interact with private dental practitioners. The Committee supports the repeal of the second sentence of the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 7-5 of the Social Services Act, but would stress the need to continue to require planning, as in the development of the health care sector. The Committee also supports the repeal of sections 3 to 1 of the Local Health Services Act as regards the determination of the organisation and management of health services by the local council, but a comprehensive committee stresses that the organisation and definition of management responsibilities must continue to apply at least as much as they do today. We point out that this with good organisation and clear management responsibilities combined with good competence is one of the key prerequisites for good health and care. The rapporteur will also comment on this. I add that it is then important that the municipalities have sufficient resources to do this. The Committee is pleased that the Ministry does not change the provisions concerning training and continuing training and considers that there are important arguments in favour of the hearing opinions. So the Committee shares the wish to repeal Chapter 3 of the Dental Services Act. A minority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party believe that it is important to maintain the requirements of this Chapter regarding the organisation and allocation of resources. We also believe that since the county councils have continued responsibility for dental care, they should have a law coordinating this. The same minority, the Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party, do not wish to change the requirements regarding qualification requirements for personnel in the Local Health Service Act. We join in the hearing comments that come from, among other things. The LO and the Joint Organisation for Pediatric Education, Sosionoms and Caregivers, stressing the need to employ personnel with the necessary qualifications to provide qualified assistance to users. This is very important in the opinion of the minority. If such demands are not to be made to municipalities, how can municipalities make such demands to private actors in the care and health sector – private actors who seem to be becoming more and more of them, on the basis of the majority in this room when it comes to letting them go? A repeal of this law leads, in the opinion of the minority, to disputable situations. There are a few more points I want to come back to, and on which the committee has shared. I expect that the second majority will explain their comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e95	I just want to comment very briefly on the two points in the present position that the Labour Party will vote against. The simplification and renewal project for the public sector is an area that could otherwise hold a lot of debate, but this matter is of limited scope. The working party does not now want to repeal Chapter 3 of the Dental Services Act and will vote against it. We believe it is important to maintain the requirements relating to organisation and allocation of resources. We do not want ambiguity about responsibilities, and we believe that it may be appropriate now to have rules on organisation. This is otherwise a matter it would be natural to consider in the event that the dental service would be transferred to the State. The Labour Party will also vote against changing the qualification requirements for personnel under the Local Health Service Act § 3-3. Such qualification requirements will and may mean that both the employee and the employer are given an obligation to maintain and further develop their skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e104	One of the main priorities of the Cooperative Government is the modernisation of the public sector – to make the public sector more flexible and less detailed. We therefore welcome the proposal before us. In this proposition, the Government addresses proposals for simplification and changes to the Law on Municipal Health, the Planning Act, the Law on Dental Services and the Social Services Act – proposals that are right because they give time to more focus on what is important, namely contact with the user of the services. Modernisation of the public sector under the auspices of the Cooperative Government produces results. Most importantly, there are results for those who use the services. Our focus must be on the end-user, and less on administration. At the same time, it is important for us in the Right that municipalities and county councils are given better opportunities to do their own priorities, by removing rules that govern the municipal sector in detail. It also underlines that municipalities and county councils are better able to make their own priorities by removing rules that govern the municipal sector in detail. It also underlines that municipalities should be provided with framework conditions that create a good and responsible service provision. The removal of the rules and laws also facilitates the work on the production of services. There's fewer rules to deal with. But the demand for the right qualifications and the right care is firm. Different health and social work requires appropriate qualifications. It says itself, and it's also taken care of. The organisation of services shall continue to be predictable and comprehensive. There is no need for double legislation to comply with standards and requirements. The rules and laws that we are talking about here are superfluous and therefore have no justification. The changes in the laws on health and social services in municipalities have been brought to a continuous conclusion in the consultation round. The hearing opinions have also been taken into account and adjustments have been made in the light of them. The proposal to delete the Planning Act follows up St.meld. No 31 for 2000-2001 and will now result in spatial and social planning based on the Planning and Building Act. Maintaining their own legal provisions in parallel with this is unnecessary and unnecessary. It also involves the repeal of several planning provisions, including those laid down in the Dental Services Act. The majority say that although planning is now under way, dental care still needs to be organised in a way that makes it predictable and that makes it possible to provide the services that are needed. The majority support the amendment to increase elected bodies dealing with complaints to five members. The majority also say that the time limits for appeals in the health and social field should be more similar. This means that the appeal period now complies with the general provisions of the Administrative and Social Services Act, i.e. three weeks. It is difficult to see the specificities of the Local Health and Dental Services Act that require a longer period of time. Finally, I would like to point out that the supervision of social services, which has already been incorporated into the law, is positive, because it places responsibility for supervision in one place. It helps to improve the coordination of government governance signals towards municipalities. Good follow-up and quality assurance are necessary for the operation of supervision. Good organisation, good management and good competence among service users are key prerequisites for good health and care. We're going to do what we can to make everyday life a little bit easier for those who do the important jobs in the health and social field. With these changes and simplifications in law and regulation, we're going a step further to get a simpler Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e123	There has long been a need to remove some planning homes in specific laws, particularly in the context of spatial planning in the municipalities and counties, and to incorporate the total planning required into the Planning and Building Act. Modernisation and reduction of special laws and special homes in the current system are imperative. The legislative proposals contained in the vote are, in the view of the Progress Party, necessary for better market adaptation and greater efficiency of the various municipal services on health/team health and care. In particular, this would be of practical importance in terms of today’s long-range decision-making processes, with several stages of the practical organisation and management of, in particular, municipal health institutions. The Progress Party, like the State Council of Senior Officials, believes that the provisions on training and further training must remain legally binding in the health and care sectors of the municipalities. As far as this is concerned in the committee, whether or not to repeal the Municipal Health Services Act §3-3, the Progress Party belongs to the majority in the vote in order to remove this legal paragraph, as it is open today, and as a clear premise, that health professionals being added must be qualified. This is a responsibility imposed on the municipalities as an employer, and they must also ensure that the healthcare provided is provided by personnel with sufficient professional competence. The party to the progress is distinguished by the majority in terms of the time limit for appeal in relation to the Local Health Service Act in the case of medical treatment. Like the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the Progress Party believes that it would be natural to maintain the same deadline for complaints both in social legislation and in health law, and that the appeal period should be set at six weeks, not three weeks, as proposed in the proposal. I take up the proposal of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left and the Central Party in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e134	The representative John I. Alvheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e137	The Committee broadly agrees and, as previous speakers, I would just like to stress the points in which SV disagrees with the majority. One concerns the time limit for appeal, where we believe that the time limit for appeal in health matters can be harmonised in relation to the time limit for appeal applicable to social security legislation and that it should be set at six weeks. There is no reason to have a period of so short a complaint that some, perhaps precisely because of illness, risk not being allowed to lodge a complaint within the time limit. We've also looked at dental services. It is very likely that, in not too many years, there will be a debate on the reorganization of dental services, and we will be open to what it might entail. But as long as this is not the case here, we think it is good to keep the wording that exists today in terms of dental responsibilities and county responsibilities for the operation of public dental services. Nor should legal clauses be removed until an amended legislative proposal on the content of the service and its organisation has been made. Similarly, we have gone against the repeal of the Municipal Health Services Act § 3-3. We agree with the consultation comments and attitudes of the LO and the Joint Organisation for Pediatric Education, Sosionoms and Protective Caregivers, stressing the need to employ personnel with the necessary qualifications to provide qualified assistance to users. We want to keep the formulations that clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e148	This is a matter of small party politics in, but equally fully an important follow-up to, the work of several governments – Bondevik I with ‘Simplify Norway’, Stoltenberg with ‘Renewal of the public sector’ and Bondevik II with ‘Modernisation of the public sector’. It is gratifying that at most of the points there is a Committee of Consultants, and that one in that way follows it well, most of us have promised, simply working for a simpler Norway and for less detailed regulation of both the municipalities and the municipalities. This has been done without any right-wing at any point. These are the lines underlined by the Committee. The fact that the political organization has been more widely transferred to the municipalities and county councils, the Christian People's Party sees it as unfavorable. Only in two or three points is this one, and I think these are more of a protracting character than a deep unseemly one. In the case of community health services law § 3 and staff qualifications requirements, municipalities are fully capable of taking care of it without any special directive from above. In the case of general rules on the eligibility of complaints, the time limit for appeals is three weeks in both the administrative and social services laws, and it is difficult to see that, in the case of local health and dental services laws, twice as long – six weeks – as the Progress Party, SV and the Centre want. The Committee of Consultants also points out that it is important to harmonise the time limits for appeals. Finally, I would like to highlight an important comment in the item's configuration. A consensual committee has twice pointed out that there is a connection between enough resources and a desire for a good service provision in municipalities. This joins the Christian People's Party and likes to put a line below.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e161	The case of Odelstinget today is the result of the work of changing governments. I note with satisfaction that the proposal is endorsed by a changing majority of the Social Committee and by a unanimous social committee on most points. That's good news for the municipal sector. With the proposal, the Government wants to reduce unnecessary constraints on the service production, organisation and administration of municipalities. It essentially involves the abolition of some rules on plan requirements, competence and training requirements, internal organisation and management. Simplifications indicate that the Government has confidence that municipalities and county councils, irrespective of legal provisions, can plan, organise and manage their activities and their statutory duties in a sound and appropriate manner. It is therefore reassuring that this premise has also been used by the Social Committee. As the Committee underlines in its position, the municipalities and county councils must continue to provide for the responsible organisation and definition of management responsibilities to at least the same extent as they do today. Here I fully agree with the Committee's assessment. The legislative proposal also provides for simplification by harmonising legal provisions. It also includes the repeal of legal provisions which are deemed unnecessary by reason of the fact that the relationship has already been governed by other provisions or by other means. As an example, I can mention the proposal to repeal some legal provisions on qualification requirements for personnel. The requirement for qualifications is provided for both as a result of the responsibilities of the employer and of the requirement for proper health care or dental care in the municipal health services law § 6-3 and the dental services law § 6-2 respectively. These legal provisions have not been proposed and are such as to require personnel to have the necessary qualifications. Let me just briefly say that simplification and harmonisation of legislation will remain central to the Government, and we will continuously assess the need for simplification in all future legislative work in my area of administration. In order for simplification to be comprehensive and optimised, existing regulations and circulars aimed at the local government sector will also be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e174	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e178	What made me take the floor in the first place was the statement that these people are largely of a suspensive nature. I can't agree with that. In the case of, inter alia: This by repealing Chapter 3 of the Dental Services Act, we believe that it is important to have a law on the organisation and distribution of resources in dental care. We'll probably need that even if dental services are to be reorganized in the future. On the question of this with qualification requirements for personnel, the Council of State stated that it had a different law. However, as strongly as today's focus is on this with quality and qualifications, a minority in the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, believes that it is to weaken the basis for recruiting qualified personnel when repealing sections 3 to 3 of the Local Health Service Act. It must be allowed to say that it will be going backwards into the future when, among other things, one. from the Progress Party says that it is currently necessary for health professionals to be qualified. I think that you undermine parts of this by not maintaining § 3-3. I also think this provides a worse opportunity for the public to demand that private operators deal with qualified personnel. Finally, just a few things: one is that a unanimous committee changes the rules for elected bodies to deal with cases and, where appropriate, complaints about individual clients to have a body with three to five members. The second is the deadline for appeals in the field of health and social affairs. The Committee agrees that this appeal period should be harmonised with other appeal periods in the field of health and social services. The members of the SV, the Centre Party and the Progress Party believe that the appeal period should be six weeks. The SV and the Senterpartie point out that this period of appeal is limited in relation to the law on popular protection, and that there should be equal access to complaint, so that you do not get the fact that you may not have time to complain before the deadline. That is why we want the deadline for appeal to be six weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e189	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e197	The odelsting should then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e204	During the debate, John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, put forward the proposal contained in the vote on page 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e268	There is an aberrant proposal from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: 'In Law No. 19 November 1982 No. 66 on health services in municipalities, the first sentence of the third paragraph of Section 2-4 is replaced by the following:In any case, the period of time for appeal is six weeks from the time he was given the opportunity to complain.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e306	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e423	There is an aberrant proposal from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: 'In Law No 3 June 1983 54 on dental services, the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 2-3 is replaced by the following:In any case, the right to complain is six weeks from the time he was given the opportunity to complain.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e444	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e509	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-01-lower.ana.ud330e519	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
