ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e69	The representatives of Ingmar Liones, Finn Martin Vallersnes, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Siri A. Meling, Øyvind Korsberg and Christopher Stensaker, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For East-Agder counties: Liv Marit Moland For the West-Agder province: Sigmund Kroslid For the Province of Buskerud: Martin Kolberg and John-Ragnar Aarset For the state of Hedmark: Johnny Hult For the province of Hordaland: Rita Tveiten and Pål Berberfjord For Uppland County: Reidun Gravdahl and Tove Lehre For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Liv Skaaheim For Vestfold County: Vidar Andersen and Dag Terje Andersen Four permit applications are available: on the sick leave of the representative Morten Lund from 26 May onwards and until further notice from the representative Mr Ingvild Vaggen Malvik on sick leave from Monday 26 May from the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the leave of the representative Thore A. Nistad Monday 26 May to take part in the meeting of the Nordic Council of Ministers in Lofoten from the Christian People's Party Group on the leave of the representative Lars Rise Monday 26 May to take part in peace talks in Armenia These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the South Trondelag County, Karin Galaaen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting at the Stortinge under the authority of the representative Morten Lund, because of illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Uppland County Morten Ørsal Johansen For Oslo: Aud Kvalbein For South Trondelag County: Jørund Leknes and Arne Braut3. Morten Ørsal Johansen, Aud Kvalbein and Jørund Leknes are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives of Thore A. Nistad, Lars Rise and Ingvild Vaggen Malvik respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e195	Morten Ørsal Johansen, Aud Kvalbein, Jørund Leknes and Arne Braut are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e200	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e205	I suggest Anne Berit Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e210	Anne Berit Andersen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Anne Berit Andersen is considered unanimously elected president of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e218	The representative Rune J. Skjellaa will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e222	On behalf of Åslaug Haga, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and myself, I would like to suggest that all primary and secondary school students should have an individual right to systematic guidance throughout the course of education, including: by establishing a shared advisory service.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e227	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e241	The Riksrecht is a right which has as its primary task to rule on and to judge in matters relating to prosecution against state councils, Supreme Court judges and magistrates. This is an institution that is very little used, and there are different explanations from different teams on what is the reason why national law is so little used. One of the explanations is that it's so complicated, so hard to access, it's not being used for that reason. Another explanation, which, in my view, is the most obvious, is that in our open democracy, there will always be processes that prevent acts from being committed that would make it natural to implement national law as an instance. This has led to proposals from time to time for changes to this system that would facilitate the prosecution of specific state councils if there was a suspicion that they had committed a crime, in particular in relation to the Liability Act. I think I can stress that the whole committee is of the opinion that the national law as an institution is an out-of-date institution, and that it should obviously do some work to change it, not only to make it more accessible, but also to make it more flexible. On the other hand, there is a great deal of disagreement about how this change should happen. The proposals currently in place go quite far in turning national law into a court which judges only in the last instance, while the rest is to be dealt with in the ordinary legal system. In addition to this proposal, there is an investigation in the so-called Frøiland Committee with quite extensive assessments of the courts to be and should have in order to be able to sue and bring actions against persons suspected of having committed crimes in their offices. We will return to treatment in the Frøiland Committee later this week. There is also a disagreement about how the continuation should be. What is clear, however, is that with regard to the present proposals, the whole Committee agrees that this is probably not the right way to go. We therefore propose that the proposals should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e258	For an outsider, it would seem strange that I, as the proposer, said in the vote that I would not vote for it to be accepted. I therefore believe that there is a need for a small explanation of vote. Firstly, this proposal has been put forward for the second time, and made before the last major elections, so that, at least on this occasion, during this four-year period, it would be possible to make a change in national law, if nothing else did not happen in the meantime. Something else has happened in the meantime. The Frøiland Committee, where I had the pleasure of being a member, has come up with other ways of maintaining a real state law situation – i.e. that constitutional responsibility, among other things. State councils shall have, shall be maintained. It is also stated that the objective is to create a system that is easier to use than the existing, very cumbersome system of national law. In particular, the majority of the Frøiland Committee, where I am, is in favour of normalising the situation, so that it becomes the ordinary prosecution system that should also be responsible for investigating and, where appropriate, assessing the prosecution of breaches of the Liability Act and the other legislative changes proposed by the Frøiland Committee. It was last said by a former prime minister that the system of national law itself was so heavy that you would not be able to use it if it were a government council that had violated the Liability Act. In this way, at least some of my intentions to propose amendments to the Constitutional Laws on national law have been achieved. I agree that what is contained in the proposal of the majority of the Frøiland Committee to use the ordinary judiciary is better than to turn the national court into a judge only in the last instance, which is what I propose. I would also like to point out that it is important to have a system where state councils can also be sentenced to punishment, i.e. prison sentences or fines, for gross crimes. It is important to compare with all other professions. There are many laws that lead to criminal liability for a professional who goes against regulations. That is why it is important that things also happen with state councils. Some people have the opinion that if a government council has broken down, only a mistrust proposal can be adopted and they can be thrown out of the job. That, in my opinion, is not enough. In very many other categories of occupation, not only can you lose your job, you may also have to pay fines and, if necessary, zone of imprisonment. When we look at the power of politics, both in government and, for that matter, in general, it should be a criminal liability if you commit a criminal offence. Mistilite is also something that is not so easy to use. Many have claimed that if, in some cases, a person wishes to promote mistrust to a council of individual states in some cases, it is often natural in our day that the entire government should put its power behind it and say that the whole government must be thrown. It is then no longer an assessment of the nature of the failure of the Council of State that should have consequences for it. It's going to be a question of government change. So, with the distrust of removing a single state council, there is really no way to solve the problem if you are to have equal treatment between government councils, big business representatives and people in other professions. It is also said that if someone does something wrong, it may be discovered much later. Perhaps he has already left the State Council. Then there is no solution with so-called parliamentary consequences, i.e. mistrust. Then it's only the criminal institute that's left. Therefore, it is important that if serious errors are subsequently detected, it should not be possible to punish them because it is discovered later. This also applies to all other criminal provisions where the limitation periods are very common for many years. That is the second reason why we have to maintain a system in which constitutional, i.e. legal, responsibility can be asserted against state councils and, for that matter, also against magnificence representatives. In any case, the majority proposal of the Frøiland Committee will be submitted before the deadline for processing as a constitutional change for the next major period. It must then be delivered in the next major session. With regard to the sample that I am now assuming will be reduced after the majority comment, I also assume, as the majority writes, that the investigation being carried out will be completed, with conclusions, so that possible alternative proposals are made during this process of enlargement and then probably with decisions on constitutional change during the next majorisation period. This is why we do not vote in favour of the proposal that I tabled in the previous part-session.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e279	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2927]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e295	This case is subject to Section 71 of the Constitution – Termination of party membership. The proposal is presented by Carl I. Hagen and implies that if the membership of the party to which he belongs is no longer valid, a growing representative will leave the Stortinget. The proposer indicates that in recent years there have been examples of representatives changing parties or leaving parties and being so-called independent representatives. This has been shown to have happened on all three levels, municipal government, county councils and big business. It is also shown that, when a representative is selected on the basis of an application, the application the chooser has given its consent. The majority of the committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party, point out that according to the Constitution, the individual representative is elected personally and not as a member of a party. Of course, we have to see this in conjunction with the time when the laws were made. There was no political party, and there was a pure trust between candidate and chooser. In many ways we can say that this is also partly the case today. I perceive a choice as a contract between the representative and the voters who have made the election of the representative. This is based on trust, and each representative is personally responsible in relation to his or her constituents. This applies to the positions and votes of the representative. During a four-year period, things can happen, both domestically and internationally, for which a batch program has not reached its height. Then it is the force of judgment of the individual representative that becomes important. The proposal represents a shift of the effect on the composition of Size from the selection to the game organs. If a lot excludes a major representative and he has to step out of the Storting, as presented, it will mean that the party intervenes and breaks the contract between the voters and the representative. We can also imagine that a party at significant points will change its policy over a period of time, and that a representative will not be able to stand for this change and will resign from the party concerned, perhaps on the advice of his constituents. If the lot excludes the relevant representative, it is the party that breaks the contract between the selector and the representative. A representative has not only the right, but also the duty, to act as a national authority in the period for which he or she is elected. The majority do not want to change this, so this is a bad idea. I recommend the recommendation from the plural.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e312	The fact that today we have a constitutional proposal from the representative Carl I. Hagen on the loss of the payroll mandate upon the termination of party membership for treatment is surprising – surprising because one could expect that the previous treatment of an identical proposal was a one-off case. At that time, it was obvious — the author himself did not conceal it — that the proposal was put forward in an immediate response to four representatives resigning from the Group of the Party of European Socialists. Many assumed that the proposal had been made at the time almost in a party political effect, and that for that reason it would not be repeated in later periods of accumulation. But then one. So now we have it again, after it was resubmitted after a new round of announcements and exclusions from the Progress Group. A poorly thought-out proposal will not be better if it is repeated over and over again. But it is surprising that the author of the proposal does not see that this proposal lacks any fundamental reason, that it is contrary to the spirit and intention of the Basic Law, and that the proposal could at best be suitable for solving an acute inter-medical problem in order to deal with representatives who would not be allowed to evade partisanism. The Basic Law should not be used for that kind. There are many ways in which this matter is concerned: the representative Hagen wants to introduce a powerful and dangerous instrument for any parliamentary leader who will have full and unrestricted control of all his individual representatives – through a specific provision of the Basic Law institutionalising the partisanship and the party discipline as an overstated value. Since this proposal has been promoted not only once, there is every reason to allow it to be the subject of a thorough and fundamental debate. If such a provision were to be incorporated into the Constitution, it would be a serious setback for Norwegian parliamentary democracy as we know it. Of course, it could be both a convenient and effective tool for the management of the various size groups to have such a means of pressuring against individual representatives who are not readily able to force themselves to vote against what they are in favour of, or for what they are against. But here we cannot focus on the convenience of management in one or more clusters. What should characterise the formation of opinion and decisions in a democracy? Indeed, dissent, the fact that good and less good arguments are tested against each other, weighed and weighted, pro-a versus, balances, priorities and considerations, that, within such a framework, each representative must and must have the opportunity to act in accordance with his or her own beliefs and conscience, even when it conflicts with party political interests. We have to remember that in very many of the individual items that are being dealt with in this room, the magnification programs of the different batches do not represent a fasitant response or any guidance at all. Very many of the cases are not mentioned in any of the programmes. There may be many and different reasons why, from time to time, single representatives of the Stortinget come into a situation where they feel that the only way out is to withdraw from the party for which they opted. We have some examples in the near past. Maybe we'll try to get rid of concrete examples and concrete relationships for a moment and instead try a completely theoretical thought experiment that maybe many people will be able to recognize, and analyze possible reasons for individual representatives to volunteer. All the parties represented in this room have a value, political and ideological position that has made different people feel at some point that party x has led a policy that is in line with what you yourself believe in and stand for. If development over time is such that this party, that is, party x, takes positions and makes priorities that are seriously contrary to this foundation, and that the party increasingly adopts positions that represent ideological samtomortals, some will come into serious conflicts with their own conscience and their own value point of view and perhaps feel that the only way out is to volunteer. Then the question is, who really is loyal to the voters who have chosen one, and the program on which one has gone to the election? Perhaps a more natural solution would have been that the others in the party group were being nominated, not the single representative or representatives. Or another possibility: if the management of a party and/or a pool of x is operated by methods and management principles that are fundamentally undemocratic or dictatorial, individual representatives may come to a point where it becomes imperative to break the party management, without necessarily meaning to break the program or policy of the party or the one on which it is elected. The proposal under consideration today is limited not only to cases where individual representatives withdraw from their party on their own initiative but also to cases where representatives are nominated or excluded. The proposal opens up an arbitrariness that I had hardly thought anyone elected would be in favour of. What could be the ultimate consequence of the Hagen proposal? Let's do one more example. If, for one reason or another, a parliamentary leader, in a party that is of course completely random, is seriously involved with one or more members of his group, a majority of the group in question – often under strong pressure from management – could challenge the voters and replace the elected representatives with their alternates. And if the new representatives – the former alternates – did not find themselves willing to bow to the demands of management for cad values and obedience, then vips, new exclusions and ever-new people, ever further down on the list of the party in question, which was thus allowed to test this bench in the hall until obedience was understood and submitted. Such a system by means of a separate constitutional provision has nothing to do with democracy. On the other hand, it opens up abuse of power and arbitrariness, with Storting's composition based on the sympathies and antipathies of bigots and bigots at all times. I therefore hope that it will be a long time until the next time we deal with such a poorly thought-out proposal here in Stortinget, and the Right Group will therefore vote together for the vote and reject the Hagen proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e333	The reason why this proposal has been promoted, and why the Progress Party wants to support the proposal, is that we are convinced that the voters have a conscious relationship with the parties they want to vote on. The electoral system per year today has also been practised in such a way that there are the lots between which it is actually chosen. After an election, the Stortinget is made up of representatives of bigots who have received their jobs as a result of a number of voters voting on the list set up by a political party. So the parties are the sovereigns in relation to the listings, and this is following a democratic process in the various parties. When the lots are chosen by persons on the electoral lists and the voters vote on the lot lists, it is obvious that there are the lots that are the centre of gravity in today's system. It is therefore entirely unreasonable, in the opinion of the Advance Party, that individuals, such as: changes their political position in the middle of a period and withdraws from the lot for which they are elected shall be able to continue in their duties, for example. as members of another political party or as independent representatives. In the ultimate sense, this can also change the majority constellations of the Grand Duchy, and it must be said to be a dramatic change in relation to what voters have decided in elections. As the rapporteur also pointed out, the transition between parties is also a well-known phenomenon in local government around the whole country. Examples are available, including: from my home town, Halden, that the majority employed by voters in elections was changed to a minority in the local council as a result of local government representatives resigning from some parties and entering others. This was the case with several parties, and it thus changed the majority structure of the local government. Such spin-offs and such unintended changes will, in the view of the Progress Party, be part of – or at least could be part of – substantiation of political contempt and less credibility for the political parties out there among the people most. We must admit that despite the fact that it is said that it is a personal choice, it is really the parties and the programs of the parties that people vote for. We must bear in mind that the vast majority of people, both at large and at local level, are going to vote on a programme that is expected to be dealt with by the parties and representatives throughout the period. It is therefore problematic, as the Progress Party sees it, that it is as simple as today for individual representatives to sign out, to distance themselves from what they have opted for, and then to practice something completely different in, for example. another batch. We therefore want to help clean up the role of the parties in this context, and we believe that the proposed minority proposals will be a step in the right direction. I therefore refer to the proposal from the Progress Party. With regard to the representative Martin Engeset and his hypotheses and possible future issues, I think it was to draw it a little bit far. This isn't a partisan question. It is not a question of a parliamentary leader or a group leader having a means of pressuring him. What this is about is far more principleal than that. It is a matter of expecting people who have received a public office to have a programme to deal with. They should be obliged to deal with that programme. That is why I want to contradict what Mr Engeset has said, that this is a proposal that has very little principle in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e344	The representative of Henrik Rød has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e347	I will not repeat all the excellent points made by the representative of Engese. But I would like to talk a little bit into the representative Red discusses when he talks about how this proposal will strengthen the role of the parties, because in my view that is not the case. In my view, the possibility of democratic participation in political parties affecting who is elected to the Grand Duchy is an important element in the whole motivation to choose political parties through which the channel of influence is exercised. My experience – and without knowing it very well, I would think that the representative Red might know it from his own home country too – is that there may also be differences within a party, for example. between different parties, that there may be a draw — politically justified — in relation to nomination, where it can also be assumed that the view which is not necessarily present in the party at national level, and not that which has a majority, can equally fully win through in a party. At my discretion, this opportunity to win through with the representatives you want from a state, an important reason why people want to participate in the nomination process of the parties, want to participate in democracy through political parties. If there had been some form of right of withdrawal that had been proposed by the representative Hagen, it would have had more to it in my opinion. Ideally, in a democracy, it should be possible for those who have elected a representative to withdraw this mandate. Unfortunately, it poses certain practical challenges to implement such a system today, but at my discretion this arrangement had at least a future in principle. So the candidates are personally profiling. In fact, the parties have a lot to say about what kind of campaign you have, and what kind of material you use. I believe that what appears here is presented as strengthening the parties, can in reality be an attempt to strengthen the central party apparatus, but in reality it can mean a weakening of local democracy in the parties and, in this way, a weakening of democratic parties based on participation, which, in my opinion, should be the basis of our democratic system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e358	I think what Siri Hall Arnøy said now, for so far was encouraging. We know that there are some countries that practice a right for voters to withdraw the election result. Among other things, in some states in the United States, by collecting signatures, a senator in the U.S. Senate can be called back. It can also be done locally in the case of mayors and others elected. There's also an interesting opportunity for the voters to do. Now, the big difference between some of these countries and Norway is that there are special provisions that give registered political parties rights that others do not have. If other than a political party registered is to stand for election, 500 signatures must be collected. So if you're a registered political party, you've given the parties an exclusive right to get rid of the requirement of bringing together election results. Then it would be natural to also have certain obligations. I agree with the accusation against our proposal that there is a difference of a fundamental nature between cases in which a national elected on his own behalf withdraws from the party for which he or she was elected, and perhaps joins another party, and that he or she, against his or her will, may be excluded from a party group. There's a difference in substance -- I accept that. Therefore, I would also like to mention that, in addition to a party list of people and a program, the voters vote for is a set of statutes that each party has, which determines how to determine the disagreement within a popularly elected group. We, for our part, have a statute that means that by a 2/3 majority, the majority can bind the minority to vote collectively in the main hall. So it's still a significant democracy: it takes two thirds of the majority to exercise power. The same thing applies to exclusions, it has to be 2/3 more. So it's not like Martin Engeset would like to try to create an idea that there's one person who can do it in the case, or a management or a group board. But I agree, as I said, that there is a difference in substance here. I think it's strange when we've had a big deal that's had a kind of majority with one and two votes, and it's so easy to accept that individuals elected by themselves can report the transition and thus change the majority structure of the Storting and then, of course, influence the government issue. The same is true, as Henrik Red was inside, in local elected assemblies. It is quite obvious that it is contrary to the wishes of the voters. I see that the majority write: ‘The majority sees it not stated that the voters would like a person to end up as a staging representative even if he/she is excluded, even if he/she is self-explained.’ Here we have some experience in the Progress Party, and I will also tip that off Rogaland Right has from the last big period. The signals that have come, however, are quite unambiguous. Ordinary voters do not understand that persons who have resigned from one lot and, where appropriate, from another, as Rogaland Right-wing Representative did, must be able to continue in Stortinget. Then there is not enough of relatively strong views without a primal idea. So no one has – nor Engeset, who talked about the statutes and systems of the parties, possibly in order to link being a registered political party to a set of statutes on certain issues that ensure democratic decisions. It would not have been unnatural to have certain requirements when you get an exclusive right to set up lists. When you compare with other places, I think there's also a difference between party lists and one-man circuits, which you have in a lot of other countries. What surprises me a little bit is when the majority writes: ‘The majority nevertheless believe that in the event of a roll-out, as in the case of other elections, the personal characteristics of a candidate may be decisive for the decision of the voters on the party selection.’ It is relatively strong, and the Workers' Party is involved. I have noticed that both the Workers' Party and SV in a case that we are going to deal with later today are opposed to the fact that the voters should be able to have an influence on which people are elected to the Stortinget – i.e. a so-called access to cumulation – while here in this setting one points out that the voters may have a special view of the personal characteristics of the different candidates. It should really be because the Workers' Party either agreed with us on this matter, that it is the party that should be the decisive and not the individual who should be able to go from one party to another, or, when they have chosen not to believe it, that they had been with the Right in a later case to accept cumulation in the event of a roll-call election. It would have been natural. I note again that it is the Progress Party that has the same principleal attitude to issues that apply in all similar cases, while others vary from case to case. I remind you of employer-paid kindergartens, where there are people who suddenly have a basic view that it is perfectly acceptable to accept, but in the case of health insurance paid by employers, they do not have it. And other parties that are for the tax exemption of health insurance are not for that in the case of employer-paid kindergartens. The Progress Party has the same view of these two essentially completely identical things, and we are therefore the only ones who have a consistent principleal attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e386	I understand that it may be convenient to try to brush the debate over on other topics, such as kindergarten, etc., when the discussion goes so that it might be better to talk about it than the proposal that has been put forward. I register with interest that the representative Hagen is so clear that he admits that there is a big difference between a person reporting and the fact that a person is being expelled or excluded. But his proposal doesn't take account of that difference. The draft Constitution only states ‘when Membership’... ‘when it ends’ – it says nothing about what is at stake. So the nuance he's now trying to insert, doesn't take the proposed amount into account at all. It's suspicious. The representative Hagen said that in the Progress Party they have some experience of this. Yes, we have recorded that, and I think in particular the representative Hagen himself has considerable point competence in this area. In fact, if this constitutional provision, now proposed by the representative Hagen, had been in force in 1974, the representative Hagen would not have been able to sit in the Stortinget when he entered after Anders Lange passed away in the autumn of 1974. Then Carl I. Hagen was elected alternate on Anders Lange's party list, but at the time he took seat in Stortinget, he was appointed by the party, but a member of the Reform Party. That's a little bit of an interesting observation in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e395	It is quite right, as Martin Engeset says, that if such a constitution existed at the time, I would not have been able to sit in the Stortinget if, despite such a constitutional provision, I had signed out. It is clear that you always follow the rules of the game and the rules that apply at all times, and when you change the rules of the game, most people may also think about the new rules of the game in terms of behaviour and behaviour. It's the discipline of such a proposal. So that's absolutely correct. So Martin Engeset says I haven't taken that into account. Yes, I have. I don't know if I've done it in the explanatory statement, but I did it in the previous debate four years ago, and I've done it now -- took note of what he's saying. For in the case of the registration of political parties, nothing is covered by the Constitution, it is governed by ordinary law. I have expressed to the public many times that there should have been some demands on the statutes of political parties in order to be registered, that they had a really democratic structure, among other things. that in the case of exclusion there must be a large majority. We have a 2/3 majority – I think that's natural. I guess you also have in other parties that have the same rights that they also use from time to time. But it can be incorporated into normal law, it is not necessary to include any basic law. What you have done here is to open up the possibility, and then you see, as you do with all the other constitutional changes, what changes in ordinary law will make a constitutional change natural.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e402	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Case No. 3 and Case No. 4 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it adopted. [[See page 2927]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e431	The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has examined these two proposals for amendments to the Constitution, both of which are designed to establish the constitution of the local authority. This is the draft Constitutional Law No. 6 and 18, which are promoted by Gunnar Kvassheim and Leif Helge Kongshaug and Morten Lund and Magnhild Kleppa. Establishing municipal autonomy is also proposed in earlier periods, but it has not reached a sufficient majority to be adopted. One of the main arguments used by the proposers to legislate municipal autonomy is that the Stortinget has ratified the Council of Europe Convention of 15 October 1985 on Local Self-Government, which states in Article 1: ‘The principle of local self-government shall be recognised in national law and in the Constitution where this can be implemented.’ The proposers behind Document No. 12:18 for 1999-2000, Morten Lund and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, further claims that municipal autonomy is under pressure, among others. due to low interest in participation in elected bodies, increasing red tape and stronger government governance. The proposers behind the second proposal, Document No. 12:6, Gunnar Kvassheim and Leif Helge Kongshaug, show in their proposal that local self-government is more than a question of the appropriate distribution of the government's authority, and that it represents values such as the maximum participation of the individual in, and influence on, the decisions relating to the individual. The basic legislative proposal by Gunnar Kvassheim and Leif Helge Kongshaug contains a number of different options for legislating municipal autonomy, with different levels of detail, while the second proposal involves only one concrete proposal. The Committee endorses the opinion of the proposers that municipal autonomy is an important principle, and it is also a well-established principle in Norway. Municipal self-government is also enshrined in legislation in a number of areas, but as you know, there is no constitutional anchoring. However, the Committee is divided into a view on whether or not there is a need to anchor municipal autonomy under the Constitution. The members of the Committee of the Christian People's Party and the SV agree with the proposers for Constitutional Amendment No. 18 and therefore recommends that this proposal be accepted. This is more or less identical to options 3, 6 and 9 in Constitutional Draft No. 6th@item: inlistbox The Labour Party, at the Committee's examination, has called for a sufficient commitment for the Storting to anchor municipal autonomy in the Constitution, but considers that the issue has not yet been sufficiently addressed, and will therefore not endorse any of the proposals. In these cases, the Right Party and the Progressive Party have the same view, and the parties believe that the Council of Europe Convention on this subject can only be seen as a wish and not an absolute requirement. This is also supported by the Municipal Law Commission, which has stated: ‘In the opinion of the sample, it is difficult to say that it is directly required by a constitution for local self-government in Norway.’ Another important point in this context is that the fundamental law-making of municipal self-government could lead to greater challenges in the division of labour between the different levels of government. Today, growth and government have quite considerable freedom of action in relation to this division of labour, and this could be reduced if municipal self-government was legislated. In our opinion, it must be said to be a manifestly negative consequence, and it could put quite significant obstacles in the way of, for example. major, important national reforms to determine where the responsibility lies and where the funding should be located. The right and the right will therefore not recommend that any of the proposed options be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e456	There are both pro- and counter-arguments to legitimise local self-government. But before any one goes to such a grip, there's actually much else one can do to strengthen the local authorities' position. For example, the economy of municipalities can be improved so that tasks and finances match better. This will make local self-government more real than it is today. One can also designate funds from the State to the municipalities to a much smaller extent than what is actually being done, and the plans of the Government for this should be followed up. The aim must be to reduce the level of detail management of municipalities. The third thing to consider is, if necessary, to give the municipalities a slightly more freer right to tax. We assume that the municipalities carry out tasks on behalf of the state and that it is the role of municipalities to implement state decisions. It might be called some kind of secondary state power given to the municipalities, and as it actually is, it should not be so difficult to legislate local self-government. On the other hand, it may be used as an argument against the constitutionalisation of the local self-government, precisely that the municipalities carry out tasks on behalf of the state and that their autonomy is limited to it. In any case, the basic legislation of the local self-government is not at all well established, and it will be difficult now to specify precisely which areas of action should be covered by the constitution. On this basis, the Workers' Party cannot recommend that the proposals presented by the central party representatives and left-wing representatives, respectively, be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e465	All parties are verbalized for municipal autonomy. All parties have big words in the programs, and some people also want to make the constitution that we should have municipal autonomy in this country. Right there seems to be an important principle that someone wants to include in the Constitution, and it's almost impossible to accept. However, I think that the Stortinget should first show in practice that there is also a sense of local self-government. Less ear marking, removal of minimum standards and not introducing new minimum standards for this and hints, and less use of the Stortinget as a slightly enlarged local government, is the sample that until now the bulk of the population has not exactly passed with shine, nor the representative of the previous party who had the word. Unfortunately, some adopted reforms and new performances recently have shown that it becomes a bit of a task of self-control for all of us 165 who both look and often act as extra rapporteurs in this Chamber. One should not underestimate the meaning and value of symbols, but one should not underestimate the importance that people see that the symbols are not filled with real content. Of course, I keep the Christian People's Party and the Left outside in this context, as these two parties have shown both the ability and the willingness to realize local self-government, along with the Right. That greater and real local freedom of action is a prerequisite for creating better schools and using public funds in a better way, as local people and local politicians are better placed to know where the shoe prints than those of us sitting here, dare be known. The question is whether we dare to give this real freedom of action away from us or not. There is a lack of a decision taken by the government and reformers, as is well known, of an impact side and an imbalance in the local economy by the unfortunate side effects of the decisions, for example: by providing the incentives provided in the decisions, municipalities with well-developed services such as: The care of the elderly, and above all the need to expand school provision, changes the care of the elderly, who are already good, because on a general basis the Stortingen has decided that there is a government fund available. With regard to what should be stated and not in the Constitution, the Right of the view is that there should be a golden rule that it is only the most fundamental of the forms of government that should be laid down in the Constitution, and not honorary words, which in and of themselves are good, but which do not have an independent legal meaning. The basic law is frail enough as it is, if it is not to be devalued with even more paragraphs that need more than an average legal background to understand the legal content of and operate step height extermination. As regards the question of meeting the requirements of international conventions for the implementation of local self-government, it has already been mentioned that the Council of Europe Convention of 15 October 1985 on local self-government is already enshrined in our national legislation. Of course, the right should not categorically exclude that the fundamental law of local self-government can have an effect, but I also think it is important to signal that it must be up to any time a big deal to define how central government you want the country to be. If a future growth rate against assumption, for example. to find out that the government of most things is desirable, and also the most effective and democratic, I find it unnatural that the wording of the Constitution should prevent that. Although, as mentioned, I would like the Stortinget to be more careful than it is, in order to assume the real responsibilities of the municipalities and to deprive the municipalities of the freedom they should have, it is difficult to see that fundamental law brings about something from or to. I again point out that the Right is opposed to accepting some of the proposed basic legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e480	As several representatives – both the representative Dahl and the representative Brørby – have been involved, there are probably other decisions taken in this room that have as much to say to the municipal self-government as if this were to be constitutionalised or not. During the examination of the municipal bill, SV looks forward to taking the debate with both the Right and the Workers' Party on what really ensures municipal autonomy. But first, let us stick to the joy of the fact that a joint committee now considers municipal autonomy to be an important and deeply anchored principle in the Norwegian political and democratic system. The proposal that we and the Christian People's Party want to endorse also says that we want more detailed rules to be laid down by law. So we're not talking about a break with the anchoring that a joint committee already thinks exists. It's about strengthening this, it's about underlining also in the Constitution of what is, in any case, a guiding principle in our democracy. As stated by the majority of the Electoral Committee, it could have both a valuable symbol function and a better match between national and international obligations. I do not want to go so far as to say that the Council of Europe Convention of 15 October 1985 requires such a fundamental law, but at the same time it is at my discretion that these kind of conventions and their interpretation are also developed in line with what the states that join them choose to do out of it. I don't think it's too hard to say that states choose to follow up a wish in a convention with an actual constitution, strengthens the position of the Convention in other countries where this principle may well need to be strengthened. I record that the representative Dahl outlines that the Right wants symbol paragraphs in the Constitution and anything other than what goes on in the pure state law, so I look forward to seeing the proposals Right will submit about constitutional changes during the next session. It may, according to such representative Dahl, outline his view of what are symbol paragraphs and not, become clarifying and exciting. Neither SV nor the Christian People's Party believes that such a constitutional proposal should mean that national override should in any case be impossible. We simply want to establish a principle that already permeates both our democracy and our political tradition. It's clear that you can always figure this out in more detail, and we could be even more certain of what's the right way to do this, with a further investigation. I will not ignore that, and we will have nothing against further investigation of this principle, if anyone were to propose it. But this is the situation today, so we believe that proposing such a general provision – i.e. ‘Local Self-Government’ takes place. ‘Provisions to that effect are laid down by law’ – is safe within what we consider to be appropriate to propose by today. I would therefore like to address the minority proposal and recommend that this be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e497	The representative Siri Hall Arnøy has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e500	The principle of local self-government has a long and deep tradition in Norway. The Presidency Act was passed in 1837, and even before that time many important issues were decided locally. It was necessary in many ways in this long, strange country, with difficult communications. We'd like to say that whoever's wearing the shoe knows where he's pressing. By that we mean that decisions should be taken as close as possible to the debt, as possible. With a foreword, we can call this the'subsidy principle'. In Norwegian, we might say ‘the principle of subsidiarity’. This is a good principle. The fundamental law-making of a principle, with reference to the adoption of the more detailed rules in the ordinary law, will only have a limited legal effect. The political, symbolic effect is likely to be greater. When the Stortinget adopted § 110a of the Constitution, it was said from the committee that the paragraph gives a solemn and lasting expression to the principle of which a great deal of agreement has been reached. It's such a solemn expression I think we're ready to adopt now. The municipalities themselves are crumbling in our welfare society. Decisions taken in the municipalities determine the welfare of most people. Local politicians are closest to the inhabitants and can best assess which service needs are the highest. The state must govern through frameworks and laws. The individual municipality should be far more freer than today to find good solutions. Local democracy must become stronger. The Christian People's Party is ready to go in so that the state has to give up some control and overview to secure the local authorities' real space for action. We must have confidence in the ability of local democracy to prioritise, to choose for ourselves. Of course, in some situations there may be good grounds for national overarching of municipalities or county municipalities. The Constitutional proposal will not stand in the way of this. But we don't think it is that politicians at Stortinget necessarily know better than local politicians. In order for local self-government to be meaningful, we, as national politicians, must have confidence in local politicians. The answer to different problems does not always have to be ear-catching and state regulation. A reduction in state detail management will release annual works that are currently being used for the design of legislation, reporting and supervisory and control functions. Released resources can be used for the production of services and for strengthening the daily part of the public sector that the inhabitants meet. The goal must be more service and less bureaucracy. The Christian People's Party has had a thorough internal process on this. The country meeting this year confirmed this process. It is now time to get the principle of local self-government into the Constitution. I would therefore urge the representatives of the Christian People's Party to vote in favour of proposal 18 in Document No. 12 for 1999-2000, to establish the principle of local self-government, in new § 110d of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e521	Of course, the left-wing group supports the proposals of Gunnar Kvassheim and Leif Helge Kongshaug. We will vote against the committee's recommendation at this point, but in other words we will support the proposal of the Socialist Left and the Christian People's Party in case No. 4th@item: inlistbox For the Left, it is an important principle that all political decisions should be taken as closely as possible to the extent possible. Hence, local democracy is the starting point of a living government. Our biggest challenge for democracy today is, in fact, to repatriate the local people's regime and give more confidence to our local politicians. I've followed the debate, and the majority point out other possibilities to strengthen the local People's Government than to legislate it, as the Left will. But every day we're challenged in this hall. Now we've got the municipal proposition, where the government has followed the Left's recommendation with a desire to remove all the eartags, let everything go as a frame transfer, and let the local politicians themselves decide on these money. Reducing a huge set of rules, using the money directly in the provision of services, such as Modulf Augnan was involved in his post, is important. But when it comes to the issue, when the pressure comes from different organizations, we have in this house easy to use with ear tagging and detailing the municipalities, and then they don't get the freedom to use the money themselves. Our local people out there don't always ask for more money, but they ask for power and a regulation and the ability to spend these money on what they think is the most important thing. We believe that local solutions are often in fact better than the country’s standard recipe. We want a variety of local solutions. Then we also have the question hour, where we, as growth representatives, often focus on local policy issues, ask questions to the government councils and ask for detailed explanations, and we want to influence what our local politicians have decided on around the municipality of Norway. Getting local self-government is an important principle, and it's a signal to us that we might start thinking about overarching political objectives and letting our local politicians make the decisions that they think are the most important for their citizens. This will also lead to people getting involved in what is happening in their own municipality, being able to be closer to their local politicians, and being involved and influencing. If they're not happy, they'll throw at the politicians by choice. That's democracy. It is therefore important that we transfer the most possible power to our local politicians. I'm very excited when we're going to deal with the community proposition, about those who talk against legislating local self-government, will go along with the government to move the most possible power, at least really, over to our local peoples.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e534	I feel the need to say to everyone first that when neither the proposers have so far been present here in the Chamber nor the speakers from the Center Party have been registered, it comes from the fact that we have suffered disease in the group, which we had to deal with in a few minutes. This is an important matter for the Center Party. It's a matter we've come up with with a lot of excitement about how the committee was going to handle it, not least because the Election Committee so clearly advocates the constitutionalization of the local self-government. Local selfgovernment is strong in Norway compared to many other countries. We know it's under pressure. We also know that in Stortinget we sometimes contribute to less local self-government. We're getting the debate on this to the full when we're going to deal with the municipal proposition right now this year. Our intention to legislate the local self-government is that we want both the Stortinget, the Government and the central government to take account of this in a different way from now on in various matters relating to the municipalities. In the Center Party, we're worried about the local exposure as a whole. The regime has value in itself to balance conflicting interests, to resolve conflicts on important societal issues, and we know that broad democratic processes contribute to the resolution of decisions. There are decision processes that sometimes take time. But it's the way that the decisions that are then taken get a legitimacy that's hard to achieve in another way. I would also like to show that one today has such a fundamental law celebration both in Denmark and in Sweden, and in this way it should also be in good Nordic tradition and in good Nordic community that we get a law change in Norway as well. We are pleased that the SV and the Christian People's Party in the Committee support this proposal, and we hope that we can now get support from more people in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e545	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 5 and 6 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted. [[See page 2927]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e574	As the President explained, there are two proposals to amend the Constitution in such a way that it will be possible to dissolve the Grand Duchy during the parliamentary term, and thus also to print new elections. There are few Western democracies, if any, who do not have such a provision in their constitution. So Norway's going to stand out here. There will be a number of questions that need to be resolved if the right of dissolution is to be introduced: Who should have the right to resolve? Should the new increase have a working time of four years or only out of the current ordinary term? Will the size be available at any time, or shall it be conditional on specific situations? Which function has the accumulated resolution until a new one is selected, etc.? All these situations are well taken care of in the various options contained in the proposals, so that it would not be technically a problem to decide a solution system now. If we ignore the King's right to send Stortinget home after three months, and later two months, whether they were done with their work or not – this was early in the 1800s – we have never had any right of dissolution in Norway. But there has been no lack of attempt to get it done. From 1874 until 1920, proposals for the right of dissolution were made seven times. Also in recent times similar proposals have been put forward repeatedly, but each time they have been voted down, and, after what I have found, the last time in 1976. It is difficult to find any party political system in this debate, because the parties have switched to being in favour of or against the right of dissolution. When the setting is also this time that the proposals should not be accepted, one might say that the Storting follows a good, long and well-established tradition. However, the situation now is that the vast majority of the parties are positive in introducing the right of dissolution added to the Government, or – more correctly – added to the King. The adjustment notes show that the different batches regard the right of dissolution as an appropriate instrument in certain situations. However, the reason why the majority do not insist that the proposals be accepted is that Norway has a system where governments are set up without necessarily having the support or the support of a majority in the Grand Duchy – and the usual thing for a long, long time now has been that we have had minority governments. Conflicts between a government based on a minority and the majority of the Great Britain will be more natural than an exceptional situation, and as a result any such government will be more or less disarmed in this room. The majority do not consider it appropriate for a government without a parliamentary majority to be able to dissolve the Storting. It will therefore be necessary to put in place an investment mechanism in order to support the formation of a new government by the majority of the Grand Duchy through its vote. Thus, the government starts its business with the assurance that it has a majority in the Storing behind it, and that the majority of the population has wanted this government. Should this majority subsequently prove to be unbearable and the government no longer has the parliamentary basis on which it was established, the right of dissolution should be applicable in certain situations. The majority of the Committee is aware that the introduction of investment in our Constitution could give rise to a situation where no government options can unite a majority behind it, if the Stortinge has been given a ‘complicated composition’ – if I am allowed to use the concept. This will not be a situation between the government and Stortinget, but a matter for Stortinget alone. It would therefore not be appropriate for the King, in such a situation, to be able to dissolve the Greatness, but that the Greatness itself should be, probably most appropriately attached to the President of the Greatness. This is what the majority believes must be the basis for establishing the right to dissolve the Grand Duchy during the parliamentary term and the right to print new elections. The existing draft constitutions do not allow such provisions to be introduced, and the majority assume that, by the end of the third year of this parliamentary term, new proposals for constitutional amendments covering all aspects of what I have mentioned here will be put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e609	The first proposal to give the King the right of dissolution was made as early as 1821. In fact, during the lifetime of the Storting, proposals have been made for the creation of various resolution institutes over 40 times. The nearest Biggest has been to adopt the right of dissolution in recent times, was in 1972 – and also in 1976, I think. The Stortinget then examined a proposal supported by a clear majority, but not the constitutionally necessary two-thirds majority. However, later, after 1976, the proposal has received more modest support. However, through the examination of the matter today, we see that there is a very interesting development in the Storting's position on the issue of the right of dissolution. It was also the case-rapporteur in a very tidy way. And we record with great interest – and with pleasure – that both the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the SV in comments open up a slightly different view of this than we have seen at previous intersections. It may therefore not be entirely unreasonable to assume that it is only a matter of time before a constitutional decision to impose the right of dissolution will be taken in the Stortinget. From the right side, the setting explains that a number of previous discussions on this issue have divided the Right Group. That will be the case this time too. However, I will try to point out some of the arguments – in so far as they are both in favour and against. I'm going to be so red that I do it, but the right fraction of the committee is subject to a right of dissolution with the content of the documents. In the 1870s, there was a wide-ranging discussion on the right of dissolution, including whether or not the introduction of the right of dissolution would lead to parliamentaryism. The debate today is not about this. By using the mistrust institution, the Stortinget may at any time throw down the existing government. A disintegration agency will not be able to rock this parliamentary foundation, but will nevertheless have a number of positive and also some negative effects on our statehood. However, I believe it is important that this type of case should be tried and testedly assessed free of who is in government or opposition at all times, and debated on a principle basis. It is not easy, of course, but I believe the case and the Stortinget makes a profit. Firstly, a resolution institute could be used as an appeal to the people. The right of dissolution makes it possible to have central issues settled by direct appeal. If the right of dissolution is at the hands of the government, an appeal to the people could represent some form of democratic control of the function of the elected people, just as the elected ones control the activity of the government. However, new choices related to a single case may lead to excessive concentration on that case and thus result in an election result that does not reflect wider assessments in a good way. An argument used to introduce the right of dissolution is that it can lead to frequent elections and short electoral periods, with the costs involved, for example: the lots. However, there are not clear indicators that frequent choices lead to fatigue. During the committee's examination of this matter, we had a very interesting study trip to Copenhagen and the Folketing – to see what experience had been gained in relation to the use of the right of dissolution. The experience from Denmark suggests that it is not possible to trace any electoral fatigue in the sense that the elections have been reduced, rather the opposite. The Danes have had a significantly greater upsurge in their national elections than we have had in recent times about our decisions to raise them. Rather, it was possible to track that it was necessarily such that the sitting government had a huge gain from printing new choices. This may, of course, lead to the conclusion that the difficult, unresolved situation that caused new choices to be written out did not necessarily find its solution through the new choice that took place. Another argument for the introduction of such an institution to exercise executive power is the consideration of the longevity of governments and the desire for government stability. However, available data show only a weak correlation between government stability and resolution rights conferred on executives in multi-party countries. It might seem that the number of games has a much greater impact on these themes. Increased government stability should therefore probably be sought through adjustments to the electoral law. Thirdly, the institution may act as a safety valve, by providing the right of dissolution as a means of resolving fully locked situations in which the size does not have the ability to perform entirely central tasks, such as: to point out a functioning government or to adopt a budget. This is a central argument for the exercise of the right of dissolution of the Storting, but the same purpose can be achieved by adding the right, or, where appropriate, the right of initiative, to the Government or the King. In our state-style we do not have an investment institute, as the case-rapporteur explained in his statement. The majority does not vote in favour of a declaration of accession or a composition of governments. The parliamentary regime is ensured by the fact that the government sits on the silent acceptance of the Storting. Therefore, in our opinion, there is no need for a safety valve related to the formation of government in Norway. What is needed, on the other hand, is to give this instrument to the government, which allows voters to be asked for advice if the government does not feel able to perform its duties within the limits of the elected government, or if the Storting wants to throw the government through a motion of censure. In this way, a right of dissolution conferred on the King as a prerogative can establish an appropriate balance of power. As the Storting can change the government at any time, the government should be able to respond in given circumstances by sending the elected representatives home. The development of our statehood has given an unfortunate blot out of the original clear lines of responsibility in the Norwegian state constitution. Increasingly, the government is being instructed in the exercise of its authority by the elected representatives. So this is a general view that doesn't necessarily relate to today's situation, but that we've seen through changing governments over a longer period of time. Therefore, a government’s position should be strengthened in relation to the Grand Duchy, in order to avoid the unlimited entry of a majority of the elected national governments into the government’s sole marks and the operation of large-scale operations. The government’s most powerful means of power today – cabinet issues – should therefore be complemented by a situation-specific right of dissolution. If the right of dissolution is linked to cabinet issues, the government could put greater weight behind a position, which is crucial for its sense of being able to take responsibility and willingness to control. In addition, if the right is linked to a motion of censure, it will provide an appropriate institutionalisation of the division of powers between the executive and the legislative, granting and controlling authority. The right-wing fraction of the Committee has therefore been in favour of part of the draft constitution in Document No. 12:9, made by the then podium representative Per-Kristian Foss and Inge Remuneration, is concurred. I also refer to the setting. As I mentioned initially, the Right Group tradition is faithful to this question. That will be expressed in the vote. This theme is not programmed by us. For my part, I look forward to the vote with excitement, and how it will be distributed with trailers and opponents.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e639	The question of whether there should be an opportunity to dissolve the Storing and print new selections in the middle of a period is something the Storing, which several people have now been involved, has assessed a number of times in the past. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has discussed this and clearly sees that, in certain specific situations, there should be such an occasion. This could be done, for example, by: be in situations where it appears to be virtually impossible for the Storting to have a budget adopted, or, as others have also been involved, in the formation of governments. In such cases, it may be desirable, in the opinion of the Party concerned, to have some form of dissolution right. I have heard from several of the representatives today that this is a very complicated question. There are a number of models that you can use. One solution might be that the government alone has the right to dissolve the Storting. It will not, in the opinion of the Progress Party, be a desirable arrangement, because it reduces the power of the Storting and gives further leeway to governments. Over a few years, a practice has been established in Norway with minority governments. The fact is that a system where the government alone can dissolve the Storting will be very thoughtful with the eyes of the Advance Party. Another model may be that both government and deposit must approve such a resolution. A third model could be that this possibility lies with Stortinget alone. The Progress Party notes that most comparable countries have provisions on the right of dissolution. However, there are considerable differences between these countries in the practice of this legislation. For example, Sweden has Almost never used these rules, while Denmark does so relatively often. We are of the opinion that these questions require very careful consideration before final decisions are taken. Therefore, other instruments should also be considered in the interaction between the Stortinget and the Government. As the rapporteur went on to say, another instrument is this with investment. It implies, as you know, that a majority in the Grand Duchy must support the formation of a government by decision. If such a system is introduced, there is a risk that the formation of a government will become even more complicated than it appears with the present system. In such a situation, it seems relatively clear that it should be possible for the Storting itself to dissolve the Storing if it is found impossible to form a government. We therefore want to consider that instrument too, and we want to take the initiative to promote such a proposal during this period, which can be dealt with during the next major period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e650	I don't want to go through history, it has others, among other things. The rapporteur, in an excellent way done before me, but I will state that we are not going to recommend that any of the proposals be accepted. But SV can see that, in very special situations, a right of dissolution may be required. There may therefore be arguments that, in very firm parliamentary situations, it should be possible to print new elections in order to give the country a governance government by giving the voters the last word. So we can see that there may be arguments for a right of dissolution, but we also have to be the most critical in terms of introducing a right of dissolution, because, as the Committee on Election Law points out, there is no automatic way that a right of dissolution creates majority solutions and thus also manageable governments. According to Bjørn Erik Rasch, who has written research reports to the Electoral Committee, it is not that countries with right of dissolution have been governed more frequently by majority governments than other countries. The intention of a right of dissolution must be that there may be opportunities to change the composition of the Storting, so that you can have manageable majority governments. But it's not like the voters act as a whole group. There is therefore a real risk that the distribution of mandates in the Grand Duchy will remain unchanged after a new election. Since 1971, Norway has mostly had minority governments without a parliamentary majority behind it in its formation. Normally, minority governments live insecure – perhaps even today – because they have to act so that they do not provoke the opposition too strongly. But our system has led to a relatively strong ability and willingness to cooperate in finding solutions. It is, in fact, a characteristic of Norwegian parliamentarianism. A right of dissolution may therefore lead to a less responsible opposition towards weak governments and thus an unnecessary increase in the level of conflict. SV completely rejects a right of dissolution placed in the hands of the government – and the government alone – because there is a danger that governments can speculate in favorable polls and tactics, which does not exactly lead to an increase in the confidence of politicians. It can also distort the balance between the Storting and the Government. If a right of dissolution is to be applied, it must, in our opinion, be combined with a system in which the majority, through its vote, stands behind the government, a so-called investment. An investment — or a vote of roll-call vote — can be an instrument for remedying the situation of weak minority governments, with an ever-changing majority behind decisions. Once an order with a vote on the deposit has been submitted to the Stortinget – and only then – SV can consider entering into a right of dissolution, and then also models that take care of the balance of power between the Storing and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e667	Proposal for a resolution of the Size slider is a repetition, as the case-speaker has done. Among other things, on this basis, the Elections Selection was given the task of evaluating this by reviewing the No. 2001:3, voters, electoral system, selected. The fact that a multiplicity found that the introduction of such a right to dissolve would increase the level of conflict in Norwegian policy is worth noting. It is common, as has been said earlier today, or in Europe there are forms and possibilities for printing new elections, in order to create a governance regime. This has been referred to the Committee's study trip to Sweden and Denmark. I thought that we had carefully seen the practice of this possibility of printing new choices if there was a difficult parliamentary situation. Our conclusion in the Christian People's Party is that the most stable and functional thing is to invite the people to the big elections every four years – sentence. Such a system has probably – I say, probably – led so far to disciplining representatives, so that one has been forced to find solutions both to issues and to complex and demanding parliamentary cooperation situations. The Christian People's Party does not see that a resolution right is a decent tool today, and therefore goes against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e680	When discussing the various forms of political organisation of the political everyday, these are debates that most occupy politicians. But as far as the issue of the right of dissolution is concerned, I think it comes in a different perspective, because I think the principle behind it is quite reprehensible, namely that people think the wrong thing and should think again. We ask people to choose the party they support, and we then get a composition, based on the intention of the electoral laws, that reflects the composition of the people in this room. And then we're going to have it that because we can't cooperate, we're going to say that the people are wrong – the people have to try again. Errors were selected; please try again! What also speaks for the right of dissolution in this room is that people have to change parties, that they have to change their mind, change the program they're voting on, so it'll be a little easier for us to work. I don't think we can stand for that principle in this room. We're going to reflect the composition of the people, and then it's our duty to rule on the basis of the composition of the people. Then it turns out that people in those countries where there is a right of dissolution actually don't change their positions. It's actually not like they're switching parties, they're going from one party to another, so they're going to get their control plug. In fact, they have a sincere sense of what they have chosen. That is why we in the Left are going to vote against both proposals, and I would also encourage those in the Right who are in doubt, and as I understand it is possible to push a little on here, to say that it is actually not possible for a parliament to say to the people that you think wrong, try again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e693	The representative, Martin Engeset, made a nuanced contribution on the advantages and disadvantages of introducing the right to dissolve, respectively. I'm going to be relatively nuanced, too, but I'm going to talk in a slightly broader perspective than just the right of dissolution as such. The introduction and development of parliamentaryism as a form of government meant in its time a breach of the distribution of power originally provided by the Constitution. In many ways it is right to say that a coup d'état was committed with constitutional instruments. Some have described the subsequent development of the right to review the laws of the courts as the last attempt of conservatives to pierce the heads of democracy in order to remedy the effects of the change in system of parliamentaryism in its time. In retrospect, and with today's political glasses on, of course, it's not always easy to relate to what some Right-Ancestors in their time did and argued for, no matter how conservative you might be. Fortunately, the abolition of parliamentaryism as a form of governance is not a topic of debate. But in the same way that some left-wing people were ahead of their time towards the end of the 1800s, it is well worth discussing whether part of the arguments and consideration given in its time to the very form of government can serve as consideration today that should be discussed in relation to how parliamentaryism is practised. Multi-stakeholder governments and investments are indicated by someone who is closest to the only charity to prevent today's chaotic situation by changing minority governments. I do not believe necessarily and unconditionally that closed meetings with fewer participants lead to more and not least better democracy. With a constructive critical opposition at all times, the need for majority governments, which in practice often tend to bind up their elected population groups, is not as strong. The opinion of parliamentarianism has never been that the government should be a sort of executive director without any kind of signature right. If you think that's the way it should be, there's a lot of reason you should be aware of when it comes to less efficient use of public time and resources. The reduction may be beneficial in exercising active control. The control of the size with government and administration is discussed on Wednesday, but it's worth mentioning here that control is a core task that the Storting has the best prerequisites to do in contrast to the principle of the opposite: collapse management and instruction making in advance. I would like more people to take part in the debate that the representative of Thorbjørn Jagland has been trying to cross the party borders for several years on how the abuse of parliamentaryism as a form of government weakens democracy from within. In the same way that all knowledge and wisdom are not reserved for government councils, departments and bureaucracies – believe it or not – this house also does not always ensure the best possible use of public funds or best practice despite the fact that a majority believes something very strongly at some point in time. It was not just to ensure the power of officials, the reading of constitutional theory and the urgency of adopting the Constitution before Carl Johan stood on the stairs in 1814, which motivated our founding fathers. The recognition that the distribution of power prevents abuse of power and premature decisions is well up-to-date today, where budgets are increasing, and the possibilities of isolating huge sums are similarly large. The adoption of a decision by a majority in this Chamber is, of course, democratic. However, democratic majority decisions on the use of powers of instruction, etc. It doesn't necessarily have to be better, just as excessive use of the control function of Storting can help counteract some of the purpose of the control: that we get more money back. It is in this perspective that I am of the opinion that a kind of right of dissolution should be introduced on the part of the government, as proposed by the representative Inge Wohnung and formerly aggravating representative, the current Council of State, Per-Kristian Foss. A right of dissolution in which to give the government a rice behind the mirror and strengthen its position may be described by some as a cap in the wheels of democracy. I rather want this to be a support wheel for our democracy, which I am afraid is not as strong as you would like. However, introducing the right of dissolution is not a simsalabim capable of remedying all the democratic weaknesses that today's practice of parliamentaryism reveals. Finally, it is for the parties, committees and individual representatives to use the parliamentary instruments with care. 165 additional rapporteurs in it, among others. Lars Roar Langslet has been described as the baby-im for the smallest, i.e. Questionnaires may not always be the most effective ones. Democracy costs, and it costs, but the question is whether the costs can be so large that democracy itself is confused. The introduction of the right of dissolution on the government's hand is a small but important step to remedy some of the system weaknesses that we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e710	Norway is a different parliamentary country, and it struck me particularly strongly when I listened to the speeches by the representative Trine Skei Grande, who listed a large number of probably principle arguments against the right of dissolution without even recording that virtually all other parliamentaryally governed countries have the right of dissolution as a natural part of their parliamentary tradition. Norway stands out and is a striking exception. That's not in itself an argument, of course. Assuming that we are of the opinion that today's Norwegian system works well, and is decent, there is of course no reason whatsoever to change the Constitution. The representative of the Christian People's Party expressed himself in a different way with reference to the very experience. It is also written in the vote by the Committee on behalf of the Christian People's Party: ‘However, in this member’s opinion, greater emphasis should be placed on the fact that the absence of the right of dissolution in Norwegian policy appears to be discriminatory, both on government and opposition. The need to find a solution and the fact that under no circumstances will it be possible to write out a new choice contribute to the responsibility of all the depositors, including in difficult parliamentary situations.» I should almost wish that this was a true description of reality, but it's notoriously a false description of reality. I also noticed that the representative, Mr. Auchan, when he presented it from the pulpit, added a small reservation. He said that it seems "probably" disciplining. I think it should be done for a neutral observer of today's Norwegian administration to come to the conclusion that the degree of discipline is particularly high in the interaction between the executive and the legislative assembly. We have seen a trend over the last 15 to 20 years which can rather be described as an increasing confusion of parliamentaryism as a system. It is often pointed out, particularly by state lawyers and lawyers who want an update of the Norwegian Constitution, that there is a serious deficiency in the Constitution that parliamentarianism is not included in the Constitution. It is an opinion I do not share, and for the simple reason that over 120 years parliamentaryism has such a strong moral character in Norway that there is no doubt as to what it is initially about. The idea of parliamentarianism is that responsibility should be clearly defined at all times, because it is a prerequisite for a political system to function well, that responsibility for the decisions taken and what is being implemented can be placed at any time. The objection to today's Norwegian practice of parliamentaryism is that it has increasingly made it difficult to place responsibility. Power and responsibility are two sides of the same matter. There's a reason to think that if there's a problem with placing the responsibility, there's also a problem with placing the power. We experience time and again in today's Norway that a random majority on the Stortinget obliges the government to pursue a different policy than the government itself invites the Stortinget to pursue. This is clearly contrary to the idea of parliamentarianism in the first place, as far as the idea of parliamentarianism is concerned that the Stortinget sovereignly determines which government the country should have at all times. It also presupposes that if the majority of the Storting is fundamentally dissatisfied with the policy of the government, the majority of Storting will provide a new government for the country. Then, after a government change, you will have just as easy to place the responsibility where it belongs, as you had before the government change. In a system where large numbers can instruct the government to pursue a policy different from that of the government, it will ultimately be impossible to enforce responsibility. To whom shall the responsibility be asserted? And who is to be held accountable to a government that is actually pursuing a policy that it itself does not stand for? The majority of the population is then unqualified to assert responsibility to the government, and the government is really unqualified to be the executive, because it accepts to pursue a policy that it believes is not the right policy for the country. This is, in my opinion, the seriousness of the situation. I share the view expressed by the representative Dahl from the interlocutory, that the only central executive politician in today's Norway who has tried to clarify this in a similar manner is former Prime Minister and party leader Thorbjørn Jagland, who has pointed out that over the past two decades we have seen an accelerated process towards the pulverisation of responsibility, and thus the elimination of the difference between the legislative and the granting authority on the one hand and the executive power on the other. This is not, in my opinion, a question of a competition between big business and government – it would have been just as well! At my discretion, both magnification and the government are losing out on responsibilities. This does not mean that the power of the Storing is actually being increased, but it certainly means that the power of the government is being reduced. Some in Norway believe that power is an evil in itself should be avoided and that power should not be exercised. At best, it's a misunderstanding. In any society it is necessary that power be exercised, simply because it is a condition for someone to have responsibility, and that someone can be held responsible when making fundamental mistakes. If power is not exercised on clear premises, then there is also no necessary responsibility. The reason why I, together with Per-Kristian Foss, promoted the proposal in the last big period to introduce a right of dissolution to the government is not that I believe that it in itself solves this problem. However, it is a small contribution to normalising Norway in relation to what is the standard in virtually all other parliamentary countries. I don't think those who fear that a right of dissolution would be used in time and in vain, and that that would lead to too many choices, have some cause for alarm. There would be such a new element in Norwegian law that there is little reason to believe that governments would be tempted to use it. There is also no reason to believe that the voters would reward a government that readily used this tool – on the contrary. That's all reason to believe the opposite. So a little note of what is the argument of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party in the setting, which Interestingly expresses a certain sympathy for dissolution rights as the Institute, but insists that it has to be linked with investment in order for it to be acceptable. It's a way of thinking that I, for my part, find hard to understand. The thinking behind investment in isolation is not difficult to understand, and it is well possible that in today’s Norwegian situation there may be an instrument that should be considered seriously. What is very difficult to understand, on the other hand, is that investment should be a logical prerequisite for introducing the right to dissolve, on the grounds that it is only if the majority of the population through a positive vote has stood behind a government, that this government could be thought to have authority enough. The idea behind the right of dissolution is not that a government in order to make use of such an instrument must have the majority of Parliament behind it. The right of dissolution is only applicable on a per cent basis. definition in situations where there is an acute conflict between a majority of Parliament and the government. I find it difficult to understand the argument behind this connection of investment and resolution. At my discretion, all experiences of the development of Norwegian minority parliamentarianism over the last 15 years speak for the opposite end. It is precisely in the situation we have been in in Norway, with minority governments without the positive support of the majority in Parliament, that the right of dissolution has a meaning as a means of creating a better balance between a minority government and Parliament. That is why I think it is a little sad that the Workers' Party in particular, which, as far as I have understood, has something in common with the fact that you are in favour of the right to dissolve, has stuck to this connection between two instruments that do not logically belong together, and that it is therefore really refusing to address what is the real challenge in the way in which the Norwegian minority parliamentarianism has evolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e739	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 7 and 8 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted. [[See page 2928]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e768	There are two proposals to amend the provisions of the Basic Law as regards the electoral system. One, Document No. 12:7 for 1999-2000, is a comprehensive proposal that addresses all the main paragraphs dealing with the electoral system, while the second, Document No. 12:10 for 1999-2000, a change involves only one of the paragraphs, namely § 59. Today, we're going to deal with the big lines of the electoral system, that is, the changes in the Constitution, while we're going to have the opportunity to come back to the details when the Grand Duchy is going to deal with the electoral law later in ours. Nevertheless, it is likely that several of the speakers in this case will have to go into individual details in order to substantiate their views on these constitutional proposals. The proposals for legislative changes are largely based on the recommendations of the Election Law Committee, which aim to create an electoral system that will be more easily adapted than at present to the shifts in society, provide a fairer distribution of mandates between the electoral districts, and perhaps also contribute to increasing the involvement of the people and to increased electoral participation. It is proposed to increase the number of representatives from today 165 to 169. That means we have to make room for four new representatives here in the hall. Of these 169 representatives, 150 should be purely district mandates, while the other 19 would be permanent cohesion mandates, in the sense that they should be allocated to the 19 electoral districts. There will be the same country-by-country electoral roll-out requirements for each batch as today in order to be awarded a balancing mandate. Which party in which district to get equalization mandates, which today will be a consequence of mathematics. It will be the national election board that is responsible for this calculation. The amendments also imply that the provisions on the number of mandates for each electoral district are moved out of the Constitution and are incorporated into the general law, into the electoral law. However, the criteria for the allocation of mandates shall be laid down in the Constitution. Two sets of criteria are proposed. One is the population of the electoral district, and the other is the size of the electoral district – the area. Each citizen is proposed to be weighted by the number 1.0 and each km2 by 1.8. From the sum then obtained, the 150 district mandates will be distributed. One of the more basic debates before this setting has been the area factor. It is a majority for the area to count and each km2 to be weighted by 1.8, while a significant minority does not want such a scheme. The minority – which is significantly better than I can explain its view – has a basic attitude, as far as I can understand, that each voice should count equally, no matter where you are in the country. For its part, the majority believe that it will be necessary to ensure parts of District Norway a reasonable representation in the Storting, and have found that looking at the area is the most appropriate way to do this. A lot of fun can be said about the area factor, and it will certainly be done in this debate, but it is difficult to find better methods than just calculating the area if you want an appropriate allocation of mandates across the country. As well as the Electoral Committee as the majority of the committee has come to this conclusion. The government also says in its attitude that the area should count, but has no intention of what weight this factor should be given. We can also find the area as a base-layer factor for the distribution of mandates between districts in a number of countries. Even small Denmark has a tab of this in its electoral system. Now those who don't see the appropriateness of the area to count with can refer to Sweden, a country that we in most areas like to compare with. Sweden has no area factor in its electoral system. But Sweden does not have a district policy that can be compared to ours either. We want, and we need, a population throughout Norway. There's nothing picturesque or exotic about this. The economy, culture and the country's economy depend on a population in the valleys and along our long coast. We need to take the consequences of this in a wide range of areas, and in our opinion also in terms of the political representation of the Stortinget. When I'm talking about majority and minority in relation to this case, it's correct from the actual numbers, but it's not a qualified majority, as the amendment to the Constitution requires. A prerequisite for changing the Constitution as it emerges from the suspension today is that a sufficient number of minorities opt for a subsidiary vote. In my view, there will be considerable logic in this, as all parties want to change the current electoral system. It will be a step in the right direction for everyone if the majority position is adopted, but it will not be a step as far as the minority wants. The change will result in some strengthening of the electoral districts that are currently underrepresented at the expense of the electoral districts that are significantly overrepresented. Adjustments will also be made to the distribution of mandates in advance of each other choice if there have been such changes in the pattern of residence that it reflects the distribution of mandates. Let me also touch on another question in this case, which concerns the eligibility of the Stortinget. Under the provisions of today's law, employees of the departments or members of staff of the Court of Justice and pensioners may not be elected to the Stortinget after service by the Court of Justice. A majority of the committee, but which in this case becomes a minority in the Chamber, does not see the reasonableness of the fact that no officials of the court, their pensioners and officials of the departments are to be elected, and therefore proposes basic legislative proposal H option 1 in the vote. If this point in the adjustment were to fall, I would recommend the Workers' Party's Group to vote in favour of the minority's proposal that option H 4 be accepted. Finally, some comments on the proposal presented in Document No. 12:10 for 1999-2000, which invites to approve the introduction of a barrier limit also for district mandates. This limit is proposed to be set to 4 pst. nationally — that is the same limit as for balancing mandates. The motivation of the proposer is quite clear to strengthen the governance of the Storting by making it difficult for small parties or lists to enter the Stortinget. It is certainly true that the fewer parties represented in a Parliament, the stronger its capacity for efficiency will be. A parliament with just two parties will be in the situation that one or the other of them has a majority in the Chamber at all times, and its governance will be very great. Once a society has developed a democracy, probably the driving force behind this has been to achieve participation and participation for all. And even though one of the cornerstones of democracy is for the majority to decide, it is also in such a form of governance that opinions should not be suppressed, and that different minorities should be able to exercise influence. A parliament must take care of the whole country and all aspects of society through its decisions. This means that Parliament has a composition capable of such an overall approach. It is not without reason that the country is divided into electoral districts. The proposal for a limit of 4 pst. on a country-by-country basis, regional mandates could lead to a candidate such as: sheep over 40 pst. by the votes of the electoral district, although not available on the Stortinget. The Committee agrees that this is not a desirable development and considers that the proposal should not be accepted. It has been a complicated process to come up with a final document on these proposals, and I would like to thank the members of the Committee for very constructive cooperation despite the fact that there was a relatively large gap between us in the primary positions on some points.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e812	The current examination of the proposals for amendments to the Basic Law provisions on the electoral system will establish key principles for our representative national democracy, represented by the composition of the Stortinge. It is therefore an extremely important matter, with a great seriousness and great consequences that we are going to consider today. It is therefore sad that there has been no more public debate on this matter before the debate. The debate seems to start too fully only after the matter is actually settled. That's all there's to regret. On the right, through the examination of this matter, there has been a main consideration: the fundamental democratic principle of one vote – one vote, one value. The primary right-wing proposal has always been a refusal to introduce an area factor. We have been working for an electoral reform that means that each voice should weigh as much, regardless of where you live, to a greater extent than today. However, we realize that an electoral system is difficult to add 100 pst. mathematical representativity in relation to the population of the land. It is legitimate to take other considerations as well. The consideration that we have thought to be right on the Right is a safety valve that all states should have a minimum representation of four mandates on the Stortinget. We think this is reasonable to ensure that at least the two largest batches from each state have an opportunity to be represented in most cases. Therefore, we have also notified it in note that later in the period we will come back with a constitutional amendment that ensures this in a good way. Some of the challenges now have been that this proposal was not promoted in the last period, and that, of course, has made that bit a little bit more difficult. It should have been in place by now, just so it's said in the beginning. However, I have to say that I am wondering whether all the representatives of the Trustees are fully aware of and have taken on board what system the majority is now in the process of implementing, namely that the total number of depositors is to be distributed among the electorate with a basis for a one-point allocation method. the population and 1.8 points per. km2. In fact, this introduces a whole new element – I would say a foreign element – in the Grand Election Law, where the area of the counties is institutionalised as a very important criterion for the distribution of the deposit representatives. Some later to believe, or choose to believe, that this is something we've always had in Norway. That's not right. In fact, over several decades we have had a distribution of mandates, as set out in the Constitution, which has given the districts an overrepresentation in relation to the population. That distribution has first been discretionary and not mathematically calculated, and the purpose has been to compensate for distance and not reward geographic size. There's something else to adopt an area factor that's going to give 1.8 points per. km2. So we've never had that as part of our constitution or electoral system before. At least I am convinced of one thing: this is not a system that is sustainable. This is not a system that will survive in the long term. I feel convinced that the popular pressure to change this remarkableness when people discover most of what the Greatness has adopted becomes so strong that changes will force themselves. With what seems to be today's decision, we're going from democracy to an area democracy, or we'd like to call it 'geograti'. When the starting point for the work of the Electoral Committee was to propose a fairer electoral system, with greater consistency between the population of each state and the number of mandates on the Grand Duchy, I have to say that the result seems to be quite original. The fact that Finnmark, which is initially the most overrepresented county, with at the base of 10,000 voters behind each staging representative, will have an additional mandate, from four to five, and through it being even more overrepresented, is impossible to explain. I find it difficult to see the logic of or the democratic rationale for a state like East-Agder with 40 pst. more inhabitants than Finnmark shall have fewer mandates and shall remain at four. Get it, whoever can! I admire Finnmark's population and the county's 48 637 km2 with amazing nature, all good, but I think we're doing Finnmark a bear service by introducing a electoral system that the rest of the country will react negatively to. Then there might be reason to suggest that this frustration and possible aggression should be directed towards the bulk of the population and not towards Finnmark. On the basis of the counter-arguments advanced towards a fairer distribution of the magnificences, one would think that it was still possible to reach the old Christiania by horse and carriage. In fact, considerable progress has been made in Norway in the last hundred years. On the one hand, communications in the form of roads, bridges, tunnels, ferry and air services have been the subject of a revolution during this period, and on the other hand, technological innovations, such as telephone, fax, Internet and electronic mail, have led to the fact that the reasons for the geographical bias can no longer be said to be present. Furthermore, it has not been given that there is any link between geographical distance and proximity to the political centre of power. The distance to political power is a far more complex issue than geographical distance alone. Resource-intensive groups and interests have a strong impact on central powers, regardless of geographical location. In fact, the greater the distance to Oslo, the stronger the impact on special schemes. However, there are many examples of groups with a weak resource base not reaching, even if they are geographically resident in the central eastern region. It should not be underestimated that the changes that are now being decided upon also contain positive elements in several areas. For several counties, steps have been taken in the right direction with regard to a fairer distribution of mandates, but the steps are far too little after the Right view. It is positive that the number of mandates for each State is taken out of the Constitution. It is also positive that a dynamic element is introduced by the fact that the distribution of mandates is to be adjusted before any other major elections, but unfortunately the whole of this House through the political process has become so that we cannot, on the right, end up with the majority voting. In particular, I'm unhappy that there seems to be no majority in favour of introducing an element of personal choice even in the event of a roll call. I would like to make a flaming statement about it today, but we will have a separate debate on that later on. We'll save that post for then. I would therefore recommend the Right Group to vote in favour of proposal D option 1, i.e. no to area factor, and I would also recommend the Right Group to vote against proposal D option 2 if our option 1 falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e835	The representative Martin Engeset has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e838	Of course, a country’s electoral system is of crucial importance to the entire management system. We see it in our home, where the parties have a very strong position. We have opportunities to have very many political parties represented, and also people elected on so-called lists of signatures instead of from a registered political party. It has opened up the possibility that it may be difficult to get stable governments behind them by a stable majority in Parliament. However, I note that no one has, however, proposed dramatic changes to the electoral system, for example. transition to one-man circuits, which you have in many countries, where it almost automatically becomes only two batches. No one has suggested. Another proposal that could stabilise the situation — many of which would probably have slightly different views depending on size — would be the barrier. No one has made proposals to increase it to neither 5 nor 6 pst., which is available in some other countries, in order to ensure stable majority formations. What is done is, in my opinion, no dramatic changes in the electoral system. We have had an election commission that has gone through this and made some proposals, which is at least partially followed up. The party of progress has a fundamental view that each vote should count as much as possible in the event of a roll-call vote. It will vary in the distribution of mandates in the different districts with regard to the number of voting rights, but our starting point is that each vote should count as much as possible. So we're essentially rejecting the idea of an area factor. And as the rapporteur said, maybe some of us outside this room have been a little fun in this regard and said that there are people we represent, there are not vast, mountains, fjords, reindeer or anything else. It's the people who vote for us, and that's who we represent. We have therefore wanted a much fairer system than the existing one with regard to the distribution of mandates among the various counties. However, there is no such proposal that has any possibility of obtaining a majority. We have therefore had a debate in our big group and in our party on whether we should contribute to a less unfair distribution of mandates than is the case with today's system. We have chosen to see it so that with the present proposal of 1.8 per. The area of km2 is still very distorted for some. I fully agree with what Martin Engeset says about Finnmark and East-Agder, but for a large part it will be less unreasonable, less unfair. Akershus, Oslo, Rogaland and Buskerud are states that have been very, very strongly underrepresented. We have then made an overall balance, where the choice has been between contributing to a new constitutional provision that also shifts something to the electoral law with regard to the mandates, and helps us to have a regular review every eight years of the distribution of mandates based on any changes in the pattern of residence, and a system that is generally less unfair to many states than is currently the case. We have come to the conclusion that when it sticks to the existing system, there is an overweight of positive elements in the new compared to the old one. Of course, it is quite wrong especially in the case of Finnmark, and also in the case of Akershus and Oslo. But it's going to be a choice between what's really bad, and what's a little bit less bad. That's why we're going to vote for the change to the Constitution, so we're going to have a new system, even if it's seen with our eyes, so it's not perfect. But it's a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e849	It may perhaps be those who want to see it as the irony of fate that the potentially geographically biased complex committee in this process is the one that has the electoral system for consideration. There are two main reasons for a democratic electoral system. It is the geographical representativeness, but it is also the political representativeness. I want to start with the political representativeness, because, in my opinion, good representativeness between the states is important, but a good representativeness between the parties is also very important. If a lot falls just below a barrier limit that is set too high, and that results in a lot of votes on that party being completely discarded, it may be a very big democratic problem like having a geographical distribution of bias. I believe that a very important element of the new system we are now adopting is the increase in the number of equal opportunities mandates. SV would also like to see the locking limit lowered slightly – to 3 pst. We believe that today's barrier limit is unnecessarily high compared to the balance between governance and political representativeness. In this context, I would like to address the minority proposal involving support for F Option 3 instead of Option 1. It has been pointed out that distance from power is more complicated than just a matter of geographical distance and area. That's a point of view that I'm going to join. I belong to a tradition that absolutely sees that, for example, property, monetary power and other elements can be as central as distance from power as geographical distance alone, and that it is not given at all that the contradictions of interest automatically go along state boundaries. But at the same time, having a representative at all can be an essential element in terms of the ability to control from below with the representatives elected on the Stortinget. The rapporteur made it possible, among other things. in Sweden as an example of a country that had opted for a different solution from us. In Sweden, a solution has been adopted which means that Parliament must be about three times our size in order that the smallest constituency does not have too few mandates. I believe that with the multi-party system we have, it is more appropriate to accept some over-representation from the districts, while at the same time compensating for good political cohesion. It has been pointed out that Finnmark's increased representation may be the beauty of this model, or Achilles heel, a little depending on which side you stand on. And it may well be right to discuss both a model with at least four representatives, to which the entire committee subscribes, and any possible limitation on how many points you can get for maximum area before the deadline to promote a constitutional proposal expires. So there are no such proposals today. On the SV side, we are concerned that the major headings here are given an electoral system that introduces an element of dynamism that is essential for popular understanding of the electoral system, maintaining a type of territorial smoothing, as we see it is right, while ensuring better political representativeness, which in my view is a at least as important an indicator of whether an electoral system is democratic as geographical representativeness. All in all, therefore, we believe that a good step has now been taken towards an electoral system in which Norwegian democracy can be proud.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e866	The representative Siri Hall Arnøy has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e869	There are no major changes to the selection scheme in the Size setting. There must be a number of basic laws behind it, and it is difficult to make changes that do not have wide support. That's the way it should be. It should not be too fast to change our selection scheme. For this reason, a joint committee has also stated that the principle of the electoral system should remain in the Constitution. What has received the greatest attention in this process is the proposals for the distribution of mandates between the counties. Here it is necessarily so that some states will win, while others will lose. The debate has shown that we have dealt with two questions at the same time. First of all, there have been some quite significant changes in the population in some states. In particular, it has our great crops in the population of Oslo, Akershus, Buskerud and Rogaland, but also in West Agder and Eastfold. In time it has therefore been so that there are several voices behind each of these states' representatives as compared to the one we have today when the allocation of mandates was made. Secondly, it has been a debate on whether to remove or reduce the regional supplement or the area premium that we have had in the Norwegian electoral system since the 1800s. The proposal from the majority in the committee, which advocates option 2 to new section 57, means that we bring the electoral system up to date with the distribution of the population we have today, but that we do not make other major changes at the same time, as option 1 would mean. The system of emphasising geographical and regional policy issues in the allocation of mandates between the electoral districts is not new. And the scheme, as proposed, is adapted to traditional conflict lines in Norway. We still want to have it so that a low-density state will make a good case on the Stortinget. And we're going to have it so that all parties are going to have a chance to be represented, even from less populous parts of the country. The actual area factor, 1.8, is the best attempt at seeing this system we've had, into a mathematical formula. But here I would like to stress that it's not the area itself that's central. The point is that the area captures relevant territorial considerations in a way that it has our broad support for in previous electoral reforms. This doesn't have to do with "revenues and bears," but that the electoral system wisely reflects the conflict lines in our society. The claim that this should be something strange and strange, besides, is completely crazy: Denmark has an area factor scheme. The United Kingdom gives extra representation to Scotland and Wales, and to islands and other natural communities. Canada is another example of the same thing. There's an overrepresentation here. Newfoundland, Prince Edward Island and Nova Scotia and the various Nordic regions. The U.S. is giving all states equal representation in the Senate, whether there are 1 million or 40 million people behind the senator. The capital is not represented at all in Congress. And at the presidential elections in the United States, the voices in the smallest states, like Wyoming and Vermont, count about three times as much as the voices in the big states, like New York and California. In France, as I note the mayor of Oslo has pointed out in the public debate, there are a number of elections in one-man crates. And the number of electoral voters varies from less than 50,000 to almost 100,000. And it seems that there are pig-grown strips and certain parts in and around Paris itself that are overrepresented. The list can be made longer. I can refer to Switzerland, Germany and Russia as examples. Other communities, where other conflict lines are more relevant, e.g. in areas such as religion or ethnicity, there are electoral arrangements to ensure that these are reflected in the legislative assembly. A system in which the electoral districts are randomly involved, following a purely mathematical model, will lose something essential: the identity bond between the electoral district and the representative. One side that has been drawn as special with the new electoral regime is that Finnmark is given an additional representative and so is overrepresented to a greater extent than today. I think we should admit that this is an unintended effect of a method of calculation that works well for the other 18 districts. And you might also be right if you want to put a roof on the area's weight, but you can come back to that in the next period. The second major grip taken in connection with the new electoral system is that the number of equalization mandates increases to 19. This will cause the composition of the Storing to reflect to a greater extent than today the population of the party on a national basis. Ideally, we would like to have the locking limit down to 3 pst. But the important thing is that the number of smoothing mandates increases. So it's not going to pay for a party to bet on so-called cheap mandates in small states. If ‘maladministration’ of a lot is given a mandate in the districts, in relation to the opening of a lot in the whole country, this will be corrected by the anti-dithering system. So the new electoral system is going to be a big step towards a mathematically fair electoral system, so that the party easts are going to count the same way, the same place in the country where they are submitted. The order in which a batch gets dithering is not changed, but the number of dithering is increasing. The new is the way to find out which parts are to extract their smoothing mandates from. The new scheme is an enormous, thought-out system in which the relative number of unused voices should be decisive. There may be a lot of tension and long walnuts for those hoping to get into a smoothing mandate, but there's a price we'd like to pay to get into a system that's fair, between the states and between the parties. In the media, in the last few days, there have been allegations that the party can be given a mandate to Stortingen with a total of 600 voices. This is actually not correct! We're talking about a smooth-out mandate here. In order for a batch to receive a dithering mandate, the lot must have many voices behind it on a national basis. There are many voices from all over the country behind each anti-aliasing mandate – not just the voices of the county representatives being selected from. These mandates go to the parties with most unused voices, so the claim that these mandates are ‘cheap’ is incorrect. That's the opposite that actually is the case. There is agreement in the committee that judges should not be able to choose the Storting, and the grounds for this should be clear. At the same time, there is no consensus when it comes to non-official ministerial appointments, which should be able to meet at Stortinget. I don't see any reason to change the principle we have here, and I have trouble understanding what causes the Labour Party and SV have for them to change this. In particular, I would like to point out that the Workers' Party and SV will be able to lead to the election of a member of a department as an alternate. As I see it, a situation where a person alternates between meeting in Stortinget and working in a department will not be entirely sustainable, especially if the council is from another party. He or she will be able to receive internal information both in the party groups say on the Stortinget and in the department. In practice, it will be impossible to separate this from each other. I would therefore like to be strongly advised from the Labour Party and SV, i.e. proposal H, option 1. So for an explanation of voice. When it comes to suggestions H, there are a number in the hall, right, the party of progress and the Christian People's Party, telling them that they want to speak against the setting. These parties will vote for the minority proposal, option 4. Because the minority proposal, option 4, both must be counted as the least far-reaching one, and because this option has most voices behind it in the hall, I would ask the president to vote separately above this point in the setting, i.e. option 1, before voting over option 4. I would also like to invite the representatives of the Workers' Party and SV – at least I can request it – to vote subsidiaryly for Option 4. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party, together with SV, will vote for the proposal F, option 3, for which Hall Arnøy has done well. At this point, however, the Christian People's Party will vote subsidiaryly for option 1. At the other points, the Christian People's Party is behind the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e927	The centre party is not represented in the committee, and I would like to express both our views on these proposals and to give an explanation of vote. It is on the basis of the work of a wide-ranging Electoral Commission that we now have to decide on the draft Constitutional Laws available for consideration. A major effort has been made on the basis of the decisions to be taken today. Of course, what is a fair distribution of mandates between the different electoral districts will depend on the eye that sees. I believe that neither the Stortinget nor a single parliament around the world with their hands on their hearts can say that they have the opportunity to have an entirely objective view of what is fair. Our task is to find a composition of the Storting in terms of representation that is perceived as fair as possible. The central party has as its primary position that no counties should lose district mandates and that District Norway should be guaranteed an overrepresentation in the Stortinget. Proposals have also been made in line with this in the position of the Electoral Commission. However, an over-representation to the districts does not prevent the necessary adjustment of the distribution of mandates between the counties in order to counteract the excessive impact of population developments. It's completely possible to combine the two things. The centre party has chosen not to promote the proposal that we were primarily on in the election committee's position, but to support proposal D, option 2, i.e. a proposal that also implies that an area factor of 1.8 should be taken into account. We believe that this will take care of the concerns of the Central Party, some overrepresentation for the districts and a necessary flexibility in relation to population development. The centre party will also support the minority proposal to lower the barrier limit to 3 pst. We believe that this will give a significantly better partial proportionality. This is how many voters you think should be without representation on the Stortinget. The centre lot considers that the limit should be the lowest possible. The debate on the use of an area factor is the debate that has been most intense in relation to the issues we are dealing with today. Of course, it's right that we represent people as guttering representatives. But we don't just represent people. We also represent the basis of human life, their ability to obtain work and output, and not least their property rights. So this means that we, as magnification representatives, have to deal with decisions on natural interventions that restrict the possibility of development, we are dealing with protective plans, and we are dealing with power development – in order to take a few examples. This means that, in very many cases, decisions are taken in areas involving interventions in areas with low population base and large areas. The people who live in these areas, of course, do not only have the right to be represented on the Storting, but they also have the right to the attention of those who are elected. Just to take a little example, I come from a state that has 45 municipalities. Some people think that there are too many municipalities, but the housing pattern will largely be the same whether there are 45 municipalities or there are fewer. It's 800 miles south to north of the county. There are municipalities that have settlements in well over ten islands. We have a municipality, Hattfjelldal, which with its 1,600 inhabitants has an area that is significantly larger than the Westfold counties. I think those who have made a few attempts to travel in the Nordic countries know what kind of challenges it poses to be able to care for the interests of the inhabitants there. So it's not just a matter of distance from the apparatus of power. It's a question of costs, it's a question of the areas in which these people live, and that it's necessary for us who elected to visit. The centre party will therefore vote as follows: we will support proposals A and C. We will support proposal D, option 2. We will support proposal E. We are also voting in favour of minority proposals 3 from the SV and the Christian People's Party, to lower the barrier limit to 3 pst., with subsidiary support for proposal F, option 1, to keep the barrier as today, as the majority wants. We will also vote in favour of the proposals G, H, option 1, which mean that there is a limit to officials in relation to who can be elected to the Grand Duchy. And we will support suggestions I.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e948	When, later today, the Stortinget will adopt new constitutional provisions on elections to the Stortinget, and the decision will be as the vote sounds, I would say that Norwegian democracy will be strengthened. The new provisions will help us in Norway to have a law on elections to the national Parliament which, in a more significant way than now, takes care of the main elements of the requirements that should be imposed on a new electoral law. The mandates of the Storting are no longer determined on the basis of a purely political assessment, as is the case today. The people-rich areas are better represented, there is greater equality in the weight of each voice, and it is also very important. The third is that, at the same time, while taking reasonable account of the fact that the areas of our long-term country far from Oslo are also reasonably represented. The new electoral law will also be progressive, as has already been pointed out in the debate. The provision for adjusting the allocation of mandates in each other election will take due account of the movements in the Norwegian pattern of residence, which is not taken into account by the current law at all. It has been a great weakness. This is now being cleaned up. The selection scheme will have a flexibility it has previously been missing. The fact that the proposal takes into account both the population and the area in the distribution of large-scale mandates across the individual electoral districts has led to some strong reactions from individual teams. It is claimed that we are in the process of introducing a new democratic foreign element into our electoral system. It was also said by one of the representatives here in the debate that fjords and mountains are represented, and not the voters in the same way. This is simply an error. I have four arguments to put forward. Firstly, it is a general principle in most democratic electoral systems that representation includes not only individuals and groups but also geographical areas. This has been particularly the case in Norway. There has always been a broad consensus in our country that representation to the Great Britain should not only concern the population, but also what can be called the territory. It is politically important and of great importance to the democratic understanding of the electoral system that it reflects the balance between the parts of the country together with the greatest possible numerical justice. There has not yet been any attempt to develop an exact formula for the weight of territory compared to the population. But the compromises achieved in the Storting before were clearly the results of opinions on the need to balance these two criteria with each other. The division and size of the electoral districts, for their part, are crucial both for the degree of consistency between votes and mandates as a whole and between the individual electoral districts. There are many examples of a lack of coherence between the population and the number of mandates in the electoral districts. A nearby example is, as mentioned earlier in the debate here, Denmark, which is a small and so-called fully transparent country compared to our country, with our geography and our political geography. The mandates are allocated according to a weighted population – a sum of population, the number of voting rights, and the area. It's in Denmark, with as transparent a geography as Denmark really has. One of the other representatives here also mentioned a number of other countries, and that it is really possible to mention the vast majority of countries when talking about electoral arrangements and the use of territory and geographical area as a factor in the development of electoral arrangements for representative national Parliaments. It is therefore absolutely not right that we now adopt an electoral system that violates central democratic principles and practices in other countries. On the contrary, we are now more in line with all the other countries. Secondly, I would like to stress that it is not the area that you take into account. Part of the debate is characterized by the fact that this gives the area some form of vote. That's not the case. The use of land in the proposal here in Stortingen today, which applies to all other countries, which we have now duly documented, has been included in order to create a factor to involve relevant rural and residential considerations in a systematic way, as well as the population. That's why you add the area as a factor. The weakness of today’s law is not least that a regional compensation is so random. For example, if we look at today's election law, where we have taken this into account in a reasonable way, but we have made a political assessment and have not had a fixed factor to stick to. the situation that has also been pointed out here, that Nordic countries have three more mandates than the population claims, while Rogaland has three fewer mandates than the population claims. That's the situation today, while with the new system we're setting up a new system with a fixed factor that could be a right factor in terms of how this is going to develop in the future, when we can adjust this to the population every eight years. That's the right way to think about it. Thirdly, I recall that it is not by chance that we in Norway have just had some compensation for electoral districts that are so far from the capital. The extent and distances of our country have not only created what is called communication challenges and problems. I think it was the representative of the Right who said earlier that it's not like this now that this is about horse and cattle to Kristiana. No, of course it's not. The communication challenge is not so great in itself, but it is important that the Storting fundamentally takes into account that distances and something different political, cultural and social tradition in our long-term country have been the source of important political conflict lines in Norway. In our time, we know that these lines of conflict are gradually weakening, but they are still there, and they will be there for a long time to come. Here I am pleased that the majority that is now established respects it in such a way that we get a constitution at this point that helps to keep the country together, and that we have an electoral law that thus takes account of it. That is why, in sum, this is a very good proposal for a new electoral law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e965	I would like to take the opportunity first to thank the rapporteur for the job he has done. There has not been any easy task when everyone has had different agendas and has been sitting with each of their pocket calculators in each of their offices, but at least he has done a serious, real job, even though we disagree with some positions here. Two questions have been central to the Committee’s consideration of the electoral system. One thing we're formally dealing with here today, and it's essentially about whether we're still going to accept that voters in counties where there's a lot of people are going to count less than voters who live in areas where there's up to dozens of stone throws away to the neighbor. The second issue will only be addressed later, but there has been an important part of a possible negotiating package in respect of the fact that voters may have other and probably also more representative formations on candidates than the nomination committees of the parties have. For the Right, the principal positions of both of these questions are clear. First of all, we see it as perfectly natural to take into account that the world has changed, and that the evolution in terms of both the telephone, the Internet, up to several flights daily and, despite all the better ways in the last decades, it is not necessarily very difficult for those parts of the country that are not located and sniffing at the Sinsen Cross to assert themselves. With regard to the geographical distribution of population representatives, we are of the clear opinion that there must be the number of voters in a county who decide the number of representatives this county should have, and not the number of square kilometres with – with respect to reporting – shrubs, shrubs and game. I think most people have big problems understanding that the number of kilometers in length with clocks and the number of kilometers in width with mountains should be given democratic rights. When this is later combined in all probability with the fact that a majority does not dare to give voters the opportunity to influence the composition of persons in the Storting, as is the case in all other elections, a poor picture emerges. I will not now speculate in the motives why the Workers' Party, SV and the people's voters, the Advance Party, do just that, as we formally deal with the matter of personal choice later on, but it must be allowed to ask the question and wonder why the Advance Party seems more important to prevent personal choice than to ensure that each individual chooses are measured without the use of emptiness. This combination of undemocratic means that it would have been tempting to vote against the entire electoral law when it comes later, but we probably won't. I am not going to prejudge the treatment of the Riksrevision's new survey on the income system for municipalities, but I am afraid that the adoption of an area factor is almost a guarantee that the negative findings of this survey will not be remedied. Under the label of regional policy considerations, which is important, the differences in income between municipalities have not diminished, income balancing does not meet the needs of major municipalities, and the allocation of discretionary subsidies seems to follow the principle that those who already have will receive even more. It's a perspective to take into account when considering whether to vote for or accept. It was mentioned here by the representative Kolberg that there are traditional lines of conflict that are getting weaker, but I think this area factor is involved in sharpening these former and traditional lines of conflict, because people who live in densely populated struts and provinces will simply not accept that the Storting will adopt this. The rapporteur was concerned that democracy has at least a two-part core. With respect to the fact that the majority has a different view in this matter, this core is, first of all, that the majority can adopt almost everything it wants, and the minority must respect it. The second is that the majority must take due account of the minority and not overrun it. The progressing party writes in its specific remarks that an area factor combined with a regular revision of population figures is a step in the right direction. I will admit that the Right has also thought in those paths and was willing to make certain concessions if we set up a personal choice system. But it has become increasingly clear to us that this area factor has a quantity of possible negative drawbacks that make great demands on those who might try to derive an area factor of this democracy principle and the nucleus of this. The starting point, the consideration of the minority, is almost reversed on the head and, in a literal sense, becomes the opposite of the millimeter-rightness in the usual understanding of the term. The newspaper really had a pretty good point of leadership yesterday when the paper asked if ‘the reform is really bringing democracy on’ and gave a very comprehensive answer, namely that one fears ‘that the reform covers more than it discloses the biases’ in democracy. When Dagbladet also writes that the reform is primarily about the political elite, it is a pure word for the money and gives a comprehensive expression of what someone and everyone can feel about the small-scale reform that the majority are putting up with here today, and when we are going to deal later with the question of giving people at least a minimum of real opportunity to influence who they are going to send into this room by introducing personal elections. The most polite thing for the future is literally to answer the question, how far were you from entering the Storting, then? Then you have to be honest and answer that you were a couple-three kilometers in length from and a couple-three kilometers in width from. But the air is still for everyone. We don't calculate volume - yet! To the representative of Kolberg, I understand that it has been interesting to sit in the Committee on Election Law. I guess there's someone else in this room who's also been a member of the Election Law Committee. This may have led to a different kind of press coverage. But the result shows above all that this reform is created by and for election researchers and others more or less particularly interested, not necessarily voters. Otherwise it was interesting to hear the representative here instead. I knew that the Center Party was a constitutional conservative party, but I think the suggestion that we should not only represent and choose on behalf of people, but also on behalf of their livelihood and property rights was quite interesting. It's a pretty neat link to the electoral rules we had before 1814, where income, wealth and ownership were among the components that were put into focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e994	Today's electoral system is undemocratic, since the peoples are underrepresented and people count differently. Unfortunately, the proposal for the introduction of a land factor does not improve much. Still, if I had stayed in Finnmark, where I grew up, my voice would count twice as much as it now does in Oslo. Because I have chosen to live and vote in Oslo, I have lost half of my influence on the composition of the Storing. This is the sorting of people – a sorting that both the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party take a strong distance from in other contexts. So now it's all right. What kind of arguments are used to legitimise this sorting? Well, one is that thinly populated areas have to be compensated for distance from the capital and the power – that is, geographical distance. But there might be another distance that means something more. Kolberg was so much into it. It's e.g. probably greater distance from the unfit immigrant in Old Oslo than it is from the director of Hammerfest. Instead of lightning, moose and mountains, social democratic criteria should have been proposed, if that was this distance factor you were out to correct. Another argument for the area factor is that large counties have to be compensated because there is so much space left over by the depositors, meaning that they get it too busy, and there should be more to divide it by. The representative of the Enox from the Nordic region was involved. So now the election system of the Stortinget must be used in the fight against the working environment of big business representatives! Someone could claim that this is a misuse of power. A third argument is that the introduction of land factor is the best way to provide political representation across the country. I agree with the rapporteur that the whole country should be reasonably represented. That's why the Right is also in favour of a minimum representation in each state that provides it, and that provides for a certain amount of overrepresentation. But there must be limits to overrepresentation and limits to district policy! That area should count almost twice as much as humans, is really pretty bizarre. A fourth argument put forward by several speakers is that almost all other countries have mechanisms that give them the wrong distribution of mandates. Just as if it were a good argument that because other countries have undemocratic arrangements, we should continue to do so. There can be a lot of fun with that argument! It might seem that it would be problematic to have a fair electoral system, as it could lead to a different and perhaps less representation of some parties. These could have a self-interest in having a crooked representation. But rather than voting for a microscopically better solution with an area factor now, which is likely to remain standing for a long time, I hope that the injustices will become so visible that there can quickly be a sufficient majority for a fair electoral system where votes are counted and not weighted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1014	Election system reforms are carried out on a regular basis in accordance with the principle of a number, possibly considering many figures. It also explains why it is difficult to imagine a thought operation that leads from premise to conclusion. On the other hand, it is relatively easy to see through a context that leads from conclusion to premise. If you have a conclusion, you always find premisses. I have to confess that I am of those who have a very big problem understanding where you've got the idea of square meters as the basis for an electoral system. It is very difficult to understand that there should be an updated version of the thinking underlying the so-called peasant paragraph in its time, or that it would reasonably take into account the need for minimum representation from those parts of the country with exceptionally low population density. The considerations behind it are very simple to understand, and they are relevant. It is with respect that the active substances are to be declared incomprehensible. Now you didn't have to worry so much about it if there was reason to expect such criteria to be abolished when they were first introduced. All the experience suggests that there is something close to impossible. If you have first introduced such a foreign element, in a very short time it will be seen as something other than a foreign element, and it will be very, very difficult to get rid of it. If you put a slightly more general, long-term perspective on the Norwegian electoral system for Stortinget, I have to say, first of all, that most arguments speak to go in the opposite direction of expanding the number of representatives in this room from 165 to 169, or possibly a different number. Most of the considerations argue that the integrity of the Storting would increase if the number of representatives were reduced instead of increasing it. Now, there is no other reason for the proposal for an increase than to make it easier to change the relative strength ratio between the states. But if every time you find it necessary to change the electoral law in order to get a fair and fair update in relation to the population and movements, you have to increase the number of representatives in this room to make the cabal go up and make it more painless – yes, we are in the long term in a quite unhappy situation. The fundamental question should be what the function of the Grand Duchy is best served by, and then, once it has been agreed, to find out how the distribution of mandates among the counties should be. Let me add that I also have difficult problems understanding the thinking behind the complete rejection of electoral influence on the makeup of the Storting. For me, it is very difficult to see why the arguments that in the municipal context strongly advocate electoral influence on the composition of the person, and that argue that it is not reasonable to leave it to the party organisations to hand-pick the people who are to represent the voters without the voters themselves having an influence on it – why these arguments, when you raise it at the level of the population, should speak in the opposite direction. In order for the idea of representative political decision-making bodies to be used, the arguments valid at one level must automatically also be valid at the second level. The proposals on electoral influence on the composition of persons are so moderate that fear of the law of chance with respect to reporting is unwarranted. But if you were to follow that idea in its ultimate consistency, that is, the argument that coincidences can prevail, it would be safer not to hold elections at all, either at the municipal level or at the national level. Then it would be more reassuring to leave it to the professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1027	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1030	Maybe this is what is called a 'obvious misunderstanding'. There is nothing in this setting about the choice of options to influence Storting's personal choice. It has nothing to do with the constitutional proposals that we are dealing with today. That's something we'll come back to later, and it's called the election law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1035	It was neither a misunderstanding nor a revelation. I have, like the representative, recorded that these things have been discussed in parallel and that there has also been a review tone in the debate on this matter. That's why I don't think it was equivalent to taking it up. The real political discussion within the Committee has focused on both of these elements, and the representative of the European Parliament knows this very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1040	Yes, that's absolutely right – these have been discussions that have been going all the way around each other. There is no doubt that the representative is entitled to pay. The reason I took the floor that there would be no misunderstanding here was that the representative's salary pointed to the setting and said that there were weak wordings in the setting when there was a personal impact on the choice. So that is not what we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1045	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Case No. 7 and Case No. Eight. [[See page 2928]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1060	The President has the impression that the storeroom is relatively well occupied, and we are then ready to go to voting on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1083	Here the Progress Party has put forward a proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:11 [[Retirement of party membership]] Alternatively, between this proposal and the Committee's setting up, the President proposes that it be voted by using the wetting plant. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1113	The left has announced that they will vote against it. The President proposes that it be justified by using the wetting plant. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1131	Here the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party have promoted a proposal, and the Central Party supports the proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:18 [[local autonomy]] Alternatively, between this proposal and the Committee's setting up, the President proposes that it be voted by using the wetting plant. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1172	The right-wing members of the Committee have made a proposal here. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:9 Proposal A, option 1, Proposal B, Proposal C, option 1, Proposal D, Proposal E and Proposal F – accepted.” [[Resolution]] Alternatively, between this proposal and the Committee's setting up, the President proposes that it be voted by using the wetting plant. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Martin Engeset – for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1182	For the sake of order – a brief explanation of vote. Although the debate emerged, it may be OK when everyone is present: this is a question that is not programmed in the right, and our group is free to vote for or against the proposal that the fraction has recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1187	Then there is no doubt about what degrees of freedom they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1231	Here the setting proposals for decisions will be broken down to match each letter point and any options under the letter. First there will be a vote on the draft Constitutional Laws A, B and C. In the case of draft constitution A, the Committee's position is that it is acceptable. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposal A§ 50, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:The voting rights in Storthing elections shall be those Norwegian citizens, men and women, who have reached the age of 18 years at the latest in the Year of the Election.’ In the case of Draft Constitutional Law B, the Committee's position is that it is not acceptable. In the case of Draft Constitutional Law C, the Committee's position is that it is acceptable. The proposal reads as follows: «Suggestion C§ 53 item. d shall be deleted.’;» The Committee's proposal for a decision is unanimous on these points and the President does not expect a different position from the House.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1263	We have come to draft Constitutional Law D. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and Advance Party, to Constitutional Bill D, option 1. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Suggestion D option 1 is accepted.’ There will be rollback votes on name popups.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1298	The Committee's attitude will then be horrified. The Committee concludes that the draft Constitutional Law D, option 2, is acceptable. The proposal reads as follows: The number of representatives of Storthing to be elected shall be 169.The Kingdom shall be divided into 19 electoral districts.150 of the representatives of Storthing shall be elected as district representatives and the other 19 as equal representations.Each electoral district shall have one equalization mandate.The number of representatives of Storthing to be elected from each electoral district shall be determined on the basis of a calculation of the ratio between the number of invaders and the area of each district, and the total number of invaders and area of the kingdom, when each invasion gives 1 point and each square kilometer is 1.8 point. The calculation shall be made every eight years. Detailed provisions on the division of the Kingdom into electoral districts and the distribution of the Grand Thing mandates in the electoral districts shall be laid down by law." With regard to Constitutional Drafts D, options 1 and 3 to 16, the Committee is of the opinion that they are not acceptable. It is the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party that support the motion for a resolution of the vote. The Progress Party has announced that they will support the vote subsidiaryly, and the President assumes that the Right wants to vote against. It's going to be a lot of noise on the roll of names.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1341	It's going to be a lot of trouble over Constitutional Bill E. The Committee concludes that the draft Constitutional Law E is acceptable. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposal E§ 58 is replaced by the following:The choices are made separately for each municipality. Elections shall be held directly by representatives of the Grand Government with representatives of the entire electoral district."
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1360	We have then come to draft Constitutional Law F. There is a proposal, proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposal F option 3 accepted.’ The central party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1379	There will then be a vote on the Constitutional Bill F. The Committee notes that the Constitutional Bill F, option 1, is acceptable. The proposal reads as follows: «Proposals FAlternative 1:§ 59 shall be replaced by:The selection of representatives of the districts shall be made as proportional elections, and the terms of office shall be divided between the parties according to the rules set out below.The total votes of each party before each election district shall be divided by 1,4; 3;5 and 7 and so on until the number of votes is divided as many times as the number of terms of office of the party concerned may be expected to receive. The Contracting Party, which, after the event, is the largest candidate, shall be awarded the first mandate, while the next mandate shall be the party with the next largest candidate, and shall continue until all mandates are allocated.List associations shall not be permitted.Equipment mandates shall be distributed between the Parties participating in the Balancing Agreement on the basis of the relationship between the combined votes of each Contracting Party throughout the Kingdom in order to achieve the greatest possible proportionality between the Parties. In the case of a corresponding application for the whole of the Kingdom and for the Parties participating in the Balancing of Rules on the Allocation of District Mandates, indicate the total number of Majorthing Mandates to each lot. The parties shall then be assigned so many equalization mandates that, together with the district mandates already assigned, they shall constitute such a large number of major events mandates as the party concerned shall have after the above statement. If, in the allocation of the district mandates, a lot has already received a greater number of mandates than that required by the foregoing declaration, a new allocation of the equalization mandates shall be made only between the other parties, in such a way that the number of votes and the terms of the district mandates which the former party has opened are disregarded.No party may be given any equalization mandate unless it has obtained at least 4 per cent of the total number of votes for the whole kingdom. In the case of draft constitution F, options 2 to 49, the Committee considers that these are not acceptable. The Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre have announced subsidiary support for the motion for a resolution of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1414	In the case of draft constitution G, the Committee unanimously recommends that the proposal be accepted. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposal G§ 61 is replaced by the following:None can be chosen as a representative without being entitled to vote.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1431	So we have come to the Constitutional Bill H. The Committee concludes that the Constitutional Amendment H, Option 1, is acceptable. The proposal reads as follows: «Proposal HAlternative 1:§ 62 is replaced by the following:The officials of the Offices of the Council of State, except, however, the State Secretaries, could not be elected representatives. The same applies to the members of the Høiester, and to officials who are staff members of the Diplomacy or Consulates.The members of the Council could not meet at the Bigthing as representatives, they would have seats in the Council of State. The State Secretaries could not meet at the Big Thing, they would saddle up their duties. Nor could the political advisers meet at the Offices of the Council of State on the Great Thing, they shall have their positions." With regard to Constitutional Amendments H, options 2 to 4, the Committee’s position is that these are not acceptable. It is the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party that are behind it. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party propose that Constitutional Amendment H, option 4, be accepted. The Committee's position is the first to be voted on. The centre party has notified that they support this setting. The President proposes that it be justified by using the wetting plant. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is therefore expected that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will support the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1466	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Party of Advancement, and the Christian Party: ‘Suggestion H option 4 is accepted.’ Constitutional proposal H, option 4, reads: «Proposal HAlternative 4:§ 62 is replaced by the following:However, the officials of the Offices of the Council of State, the State Secretaries and the political advisers could not be elected as representatives. The same applies to the members of the Høiester, and to officials who are staff members of the Diplomacy or Consulates.The members of the Council could not meet at the Bigthing as representatives, they would have seats in the Council of State. Nor could the State Secretaries meet as representatives, they shall be seated in their offices, and the political advisers at the Offices of the Government could not meet at the Grand Thing, they shall be seated in their positions." The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre have announced that they will support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-26.ana.ud223e1495	In the case of draft constitution I, the Committee recommends that the proposal be accepted. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Proposal in point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 63 shall be deleted.’ In the case of draft constitution J, the Committee considers that the proposal is not acceptable. The proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council is unanimous.
