ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e42	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right, 5 minutes to each of the other groups and 5 minutes to the representative Jan Simonsen. Furthermore, the President will propose exemptions from the first paragraph of Section 37 of the Rules of Procedure by giving access to lines, but so that lines and answers are limited to a maximum of one minute each. In addition, it is proposed that three one-minute increments be given, with an answer from the main speakers of each group and five one-minute increments, with a response from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e53	I would first like to thank the members of the committee who have worked on the bill, for the work done on this law. The Law of Vocational Education has a history that extends over several periods of ageing. This proposition is a follow-up to the Berg Committee, NOU 2000: 5, between bark and wood – on vocational school education, otherwise an excellent name that illustrates how this type of education has been located in the educational hierarchy over time. The main conclusion after the treatment of St. Meld. No 20 for 2000-2001, which was a follow-up to the suspension of the Berg Committee, can be summarised with the following decisions, as set out below. Inner. S. No 177 for 2000-2001: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the Law on Vocational Education, which also includes technical school regulations. Laws must have a perspective that ensures stable and good working conditions for vocational education and training aimed at other societal needs after continuing training.’ This has been done by the Government. Vocational education is short-term vocational education based on secondary or equivalent real competence with a minimum of half a year of study — five months — and a maximum of two years of full-time study. Vocational education has thus become an independent and formalised part of the education system between secondary and higher education. Vocational education shall be an alternative to higher education and thus make shorter vocational education visible as a real alternative to the long academic courses. These training courses are intended to meet the needs of business for conversion, change and peak skills in a rapidly changing everyday life. Increased flexibility in relation to the needs of enterprises gives enterprises an independent responsibility for active participation in these training courses. Law on vocational education means, inter alia: the obligation of the county to provide technical vocational schools is removed. The technical vocational schools will thus be treated as equivalent to other vocational vocational education. The specialised schools providing training for advanced technical tasks and training to meet national and international certification requirements are of particular importance. The public must still have a responsibility for these. The Committee clearly disagrees with the definition of specific responsibilities, but agrees that such training should not be allowed to disappear as an independent offer. The law provides for the approval of the providers who wish to receive their training offer, the possibility of a quality assessment, and the granting of an authorisation promise to users that the offer is of satisfactory quality. This results in a right for users to study funding through the Loan Fund. The Committee has assessed the decision in connection with the examination of the Innst. S. No 177, that there should be an offer of vocational school education in all counties, has been taken care of, and has therefore found it necessary to provide a statutory home on the responsibilities of the county council in Section 1. Furthermore, the Decision adopted in the context of the treatment of Innst. S. No 177: ‘The decision asks the Government to make proposals which make it clear that private sector housing should also apply to vocational education.’ This relationship has not been fulfilled in the same way as the decision referred to above, since the proposition essentially considers that users, industries and workers must finance the training themselves. A good position – but people who are currently outside the labour market for various reasons will not be able to benefit from this type of training for economic reasons in order to have the necessary transition skills and thus re-enter the labour market. It is a weakness in the view of the Progress Party. This training offer should, in line with others, be in line with a single-cost financing to meet the institution’s needs for changes and the development of new and innovative offers. With regard to organisation, the working environment and the assessment of documentation, I would like briefly to mention that a majority believe that users should be represented in the institutions' governance with full rights. In this majority, the Progress Party is of the opinion that all training institutions should be independent legal entities, with a board as the top responsible governing body. In such a model, it would be natural, according to law and practice, for users to be represented. As far as the working environment is concerned, the Committee considers it natural that specialised schools fall within the scope of the provisions of other training institutions and asks the Government to make proposals to that effect. As regards its assessment and documentation, it is natural for the Committee to define what students should be able to master after completion of education and to require progress beyond the level of secondary school. Furthermore, the Committee takes the view that relevant real competences should form the basis for admission and that real competences beyond the level of secondary school should allow for a shortening of study time. [[President clubs]] Finally, I would like to mention that there are also education courses for which it should be possible to apply for vocational school status.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e91	Time's up. –
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e94	I would recommend the Committee's position and, in addition, mention the proposal on which the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen stand alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e99	The representative of Ursula Evje has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e102	The Labour Party is pleased that we are now receiving a system of visibility and public quality assurance for shorter, public or private vocational education – as a real alternative to the longer courses of higher education and the university system. The Labour Party is particularly pleased that one is also given a clarification of the situation of the technical vocational schools in the county. The Committee considers that it is still an important task for the public to take special responsibility for them. We believe that there should be an offer of such vocational education in all the counties, either on their own or in cooperation between county councils, and that this should be done through regulations in the law. Vocational education and training shall contribute collectively to the needs of the labour market in the professional fields, in addition to those provided by the secondary school. We share the Ministry’s assessment of the concept of ‘professional’ to cover more than training for a specific profession, that in a broader perspective it should be understood to include the characteristics and skills needed in the workplace, for example: cooperation and creativity. The government parties and the Advance Party go further here. In reality, I can't see that there are any limitations or relation to the needs of a work situation. I guess that's what should be the starting point. Here I feel safer on the intentions of the Council of State. We agree that admission to post-secondary schools should be based on secondary or equivalent real competence. It is important that the vocational schools document the competence of the students and the tasks for which they will be qualified in professional life, and that the description of final competence is central to the assessment of recognition. At the same time, it is necessary to provide for a flexible transition of choice to higher education, if any, by enabling universities and colleges to facilitate the disparity of relevant vocational education and training in the form of curtailment in the studies. The Workers' Party agrees with the Ministry's proposal that vocational training courses may vary from half a year of study to a maximum of two. This will ensure that the widest possible range of existing training courses that provide professional competence enters into a public, professional recognition system – for the benefit of both students and working life. Thus, we do not decide which length of training will be the best basis for professional performance. This assessment must be carried out in developing the provision of specialised schools in cooperation between industries and providers. We believe it makes sense that the National Quality Agency for Education, NOKUT, is also responsible for the professional recognition of vocational education, and we agree that recognition will give students the right to loans and scholarships in the State Loan Fund, but not automatically in the case of government grants to the institution. As far as funding is concerned, support is being continued today for technical vocational schools as earmarked funds, where grants are to be awarded on the basis of student numbers. For reasons of continuity and predictability, the Labour Party believes that a priority education should have provided funding with one part as a basic grant and the rest as a subsidy after actual activity, i.e.: Number of students. We also believe that funds should be allocated to technical vocational schools for new offers and for increased scope within existing lines. The Workers' Party agrees with the Council of State that only technical and vocational schools of national importance can count on public support and that the Ministry will establish a restrictive line with regard to the possible allocations to private vocational school education. A necessary exception here is that training offers which currently receive grants under the Private School Act retain this in the case of approval under the Law on Vocational Education. Here, too, I record that the government parties and the Advance Party go beyond the Ministry, by guaranteeing new private providers – with equivalent professional content to those already supported today – government grants. I assume that with this they do not agree that e.g. Bible schools, unlike some others who might also have wanted to support, are of national importance. However, the Labour Party has allowed itself to point out that in the light of a social need, it is appropriate to consider whether continuing training for health and social workers is a type of training of such national importance that it should receive public support. The working party has been involved in the treatment of the organisation of the education system in many contexts by participation of students/pupils and employees. This is also the background for us to believe that both public and private vocational schools should have a board of representatives from these groups. There must be representatives with real influence and not with the limitations of the rights proposed by the Ministry in the proposition. Finally, we believe that a fully sound working environment equivalent to other levels of education must also be ensured for the students at the vocational schools, and we are pleased that a unanimous committee is calling on the Government to submit proposals on occupational health and safety regulations with supervisory arrangements. There's 5 seconds left of my speaking time, and I'll take up the suggestions No. 1 and No 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e130	The representative of Vidar Bjørnstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The scheduled time for the morning meeting is immediately at hand. The President will propose that the meeting of the Odelsting should continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e137	I've taken the trouble of looking a little backwards. This case started with the start of the Berg Committee by the government of Bondevik I, which produced the public investigation ‘Between the bark and the wood’. Then there was an order in the throne to the government, and then there was a message from another government, a labor party government. As I read the message from that government, the Labour Party had a rather negative attitude towards this type of education. In the summary in the communication from the then Minister of Education, Trond Giske, the main message was that new offers in higher education must meet the need for vocational education after secondary education. In this context, when dealing with this matter, the Workers' Party agrees with the other parties in the Committee that the vocational schools should be an alternative to higher education, as a real alternative to the long-term courses of higher education and universities. It is very gratifying that the Workers' Party has obviously changed to a much more positive view of this type of education. It would have been interesting to hear why.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e146	It is true that the representative of Sortevik stated in his reply that the Workers' Party wanted a different system for integrating vocational education into the higher education system the previous time this was dealt with in Stortinget. However, we are dealing with what the majority of the Storing voted for, and we are taking it as a starting point in relation to the proposal that has now come from the Government. From this point of view, which is different from the previous round, we believe that good quality assurance of vocational training has been established here, both in terms of public and private supply. We are particularly pleased that the future has been clarified for the technical vocational schools as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e151	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e155	When, in March 2001, the Stortinget instructed the then Labour Party Government to promote its own bill on the subject schools, it was against the wishes of the minority in the Stortinget, consisting of the representatives of the Labour Party, as the Progress Party pointed out in its reply, and the representatives of the Socialist Left Party. With this in mind, it is now nice to note that this time there is a total magnification that is behind the bill. This ensures a sound legal basis for vocational schools for their activities. Only on marginal issues, on board representation and governing rights, have a minority in the Committee differing views and proposals. This promises well in order to achieve as much of the objective as possible with the law, namely to give both predictable framework conditions and increased status to a somewhat more practical education than ordinary university and university studies. When vocational education is given its own legal protection, which also includes rules on professional recognition, it helps to secure the future of this type of education. At the same time, vocational training beyond the secondary school level is considered to be practically equivalent to more traditional academic education. This legal regulation could provide technical and practical and vocational education and training a natural and stable place in the Norwegian education system, as an alternative course of study to the traditional, academic and theoretical education pathway. When a separate professional recognition system for this type of school is introduced, it will contribute to giving vocational education and training a separate identity and equivalency in relation to other higher education. To the right, it is important to ensure diversity and freedom of choice in our school system. Professional schools are an important opportunity to achieve this. At the same time, vocational schools have so far demonstrated a high degree of flexibility, adaptability and adaptability to the labour market and to society's needs for various forms of vocational higher education of varying lengths. The vocational schools thus meet the needs of many students and workers who want alternative educational pathways in relation to traditional academic orientations. The level of education offered by the vocational schools shall range from a minimum of six months to a maximum of two years of study. This further contributes to ensuring flexibility and adaptability to market needs. Professional schools have a good tradition of working closely with the working and business life they serve. This important interaction is now given a safer foundation for further development. I also hope that this close relationship between education and working life, together with the predictability and professional status of the vocational school law, will help to ensure a better search for, among other things. the technical vocational schools, which for some time have suffered from falling recruitment. Once this law has been passed, the former law on technical vocational schools will fall away, and the county council's obligation to offer technical vocational schools will no longer be maintained. From my point of view, it is important to stress that this training offer as a technical vocational school should be maintained in all parts of the country, if not necessarily in all counties. In the committee setting, the Ministry shall be given the necessary authority to lay down rules on the responsibilities of the county council in relation to this. This could be done, for example, by: be to organise and provide technical vocational schools in cooperation between several counties. For the Right, the quality of all education is another main objective. Without qualitatively good vocational education, we do not guarantee the needs of the working life or the needs and wishes of the students. The professional recognition system, which is now established by becoming the NOCUT recognition body also for the vocational schools, will help to ensure a high, recognised and professionally good level of education, while at the same time raising the status by the same recognition body for the vocational schools as for other higher-level education. Finally, I would like to make it clear that the vocational schools are an independent and final education and study course. The completed training and examination of a specialised school provides a separate competence and quality for participation in working and social life. However, in line with the intention of the real skills reform, education from the vocational schools must also be able to be integrated into and shorten ordinary academic studies. This is a responsibility that Stortinget has previously assigned to the institution where an applicant to become a student. With the professional recognition system now in place for specialised schools, such transitions should be even easier. The Law on Vocational Education provides a good opportunity to ensure a diversity of education such as Norwegian business and social life, Norwegian youth and the Norwegian education system will be needed in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e176	I don't know if I feel absolutely sure that this draft law that we are now dealing with deserves all the violent and praiseworthy words that have been given so far. Because it is important for us to establish a new level of education – I choose to define it as a new level of education, although we also have technical colleges today – that it has confidence in students and, not least, in business, which are to demand the new candidates. And I don't feel sure what the majority here is doing is professionally wise. It sets a lower limit of five months, and it surprises me a little bit. In particular, it surprises me in relation to those who talk about quality in education, about investing in quality and competence. Clearly, what kind of competence a five - month study — even if a full - time study — can provide is limited. I wish that the majority had followed our proposal to set the lower limit for the type of education that we define as a vocational school, to one year. It would give the education greater legitimacy, and it would have been a strength in relation to the professional. Then you could say that with our arrangement some offers would have fallen out – yes. But is it so terribly wrong that there are offers outside our established education system where there are unambiguous and clear definitions of what it should be and which do not have official recognition? For us, it is most important that the education services to be approved have a professional level and are education that is needed in society. I do not see that there is any problem that there is a shorter supply of education – it may be internal training, it may be very strange – that is allowed to live without a public stamp or public money. So you should have followed up our scheme. I am pleased that, in its setting, the Committee clarifies and emphasises that, when assessing a training offer applying for recognition, NOCUT shall place a strong emphasis on final competence. One should enter and evaluate final competence, and it's very essential in that regard. We need to ensure that the education that is recognised as a vocational school has a final competence that is needed, so that those who choose that education know that they are now taking part in an education, that they choose an offer that has been assessed, that they know that society needs, and that they give competence to specific professions. So the fact that the NOCUT in its assessments should focus on final competence, and that we have stressed it so strongly, is important. In addition, I am pleased that the Committee emphasises very strongly progress, that there should be a link in our training courses. One of the problems we have with both primary, secondary and higher education is that we haven't got enough of the transitions – there's not enough coherence in our educational pathways. Now the Committee strongly emphasises that, as a general rule, it should be a step forward from high school up to this college, that it should be a context and that it should be based on each other. It's very important, and it's going to be a central issue for NOCUT in the assessments that they're going to make. I am also pleased that the Committee is now stressing that we are going to take care of technical specialised schools – that there is going to be technical specialised schools in each state, where appropriate, that the counties cooperate on this – and that this is an important matter for the department, because I believe that the department will continue to follow up the strong comment and the clear points of view expressed by the majority of the committee in this particular area. I'm also glad that there's a joint committee that says something about student rights, that we also want to give students the same rights for this type of education in relation to the working environment. It is a little unclear yet whether there will be a majority for this – I am excited about how the Progress Party will vote. I still hope that there will be a majority to ensure student representation with full rights on board. In the end, I record that the majority goes further than the department. It's becoming a habit, I feel, that it's us in the opposition who have to support the ministry, defend the Council of State, in terms of economics, while the majority of the population go a little different ways than what the Council of State has set up. This is starting to become a habit, and I think it's a little weird.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e195	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e198	The representative Reikvam grabbed hold of the only point where SV remained alone here, namely that one does not go in to continue the system of semi-annual trade unions. It's actually quite in line with the position of the Council of State and the Department, so if it's going to be to disagree with the Department, I don't understand where the representative Rikvam wants to go. The second point is that in the ordinary course of studies at universities and colleges, there are partial exams of two weights, i.e. one month studies to be conducted and SV are also in favour of NOCUT being the approval body for these studies. When SV now presents its scepticism and has less faith in the quality of these studies for which the majority, with the exception of SV, agrees, does SV here not have faith in NOCUT as an authorisation system? And what about all the other little studies with exams at ordinary universities and colleges?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e205	Yes, I have faith in NOCUT. That's why I also stressed so strongly this with final competence, that they should do a real job in relation to it. So I'm assuming that this part is done based on what the mass mass now assumes. So here we're talking about a vocational education, a vocational education that is supposed to give a professional competence, for specific professions, for jobs that business needs, and then we think it's important when we define this vocational school, that we operate with a one-year education course. I know that there are shorter studies at the university, but there is nothing that gives professional competence for a job. This is just part of a total education. You combine different subjects, and then you have some shorter subjects that you can take on, but it can't be compared to what we're talking about now, which is a vocational education geared towards the needs of your professional life. That was my point – that is to ensure that education, give it the necessary status, give it the necessary legitimacy. With regard to the Council of State, it was economic and has nothing to do with half-years, when the majority went substantially beyond the Council of State in terms of securing the economy of private schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e214	The President must point out that once we have introduced 1 minute's replication time, it must also be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e217	There's a new exercise with 1 minute, so we're going to get the gear up. In the extension of the representative from the Right, it is also true that SV will not go up. They won't allow a third year. Again you can ask the question why, when you show so little faith in the recognition body that you are thus involved in giving authority. The Progress Party will open up a third year when artistic education through vocational schools needs a third year of project and practice, precisely in order to strengthen students' professional competences. That also says SV that they are busy. Why, then, will they not open it under the proper supervision of the supervisory body, namely NOCUT? One more quick thing. With regard to government grants, the Committee also states that public support under the Private School Act is to be continued, and it ensures that the private sector which currently has public support under SV’s support. It's a pleasure, isn't it? But why not also, with SV's support, let in new, private providers? Why do you stop with the people who have support today? Why do you not want to allow professional development by admitting new ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e226	We chose to support the Council of State and her proposals on grants, as opposed to the Right and the Advance Party do here in the Chamber. That means we're following up on the Government's proposals. We accept that there are a number of schools that will now apply for vocational school status, which are currently located elsewhere and have received public support. If they themselves believe that they have an education, a competence and a level equivalent to a vocational school, they must of course apply to go to that level without fear of losing their status. That's the simple argument for that. But we don't want to go further and commit ourselves in terms of grants to schools. There has to be an assessment as to whether there is a need for that education, and that we want to control the state grant itself. So, three-year training offers. We see a context; we build up an education system in high school where technical college covers the first two years, and then we have the higher education and university system, which basically covers three years up. So there's going to be a context in the different loops, and as I mentioned in my first post, we're concerned with progress and getting good relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e233	I think it's very positive that the Socialist Left Party wants to be the government's support, and I think that's a good citizen for the future. Requam was not sure about the majority in terms of the quality of this reform. Then I think it's important to remember that this type of education often happens in combination with being active, not necessarily just taking education. This will result in a combination of professional activity and a learning situation in which the length of the study can also be assessed. What gets a little wrong with me is that I think Rolf Requam operates with a very streamlined system thinking in his quality assessment. Why is quality equal to length of education?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e240	We have no particular desire to be a supporting party for the Government. But when no one else wants to, we must try to take responsibility for the proposals the Government has made. It's as simple as that. We have then entered that role a few times, also because we have thought that the government's proposals have been good – for all things. So the second part of the question from Arne Lyngstad. Professional schools will often be a combination of professional experience and theoretical education at an institution. I also see that, but what's in the setup is that the length of education is going to be five months, and you're going to be defined as a full-time student. I am quite convinced that there is a close link between the length of education and the quality of education and the skills it provides. I am absolutely convinced of that. If you start a one-year education, it will be significantly better than a five-month education. I'm not a moment in doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e247	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e251	Today's new law on vocational education makes vocational education an independent part of the Norwegian education system. The law will, I hope, help to satisfy the increasing needs of the labour market for professional skills, increased quality and more choice. Law on vocational education will make shorter vocational education visible as a real alternative to long courses at universities and higher education institutions, and in the long term it will also bring socio-economic benefits, including: by increasing the number of short-term training courses and thus being given several years as a working person. We now have an overall framework law that equates private and public in vocational training provision and establishes a system of official recognition. In addition to technical vocational schools, education includes several ICT, economics, administration, marketing, travel, further training for health and care professionals, etc. Thus, the law allows for a quality approval of a training market which is currently very varied, both in terms of content and quality. Vocational education and training shall be subject to the approval of a professionally independent body – NOCUT – and thus to an official quality stamp. However, the responsibility for developing and ensuring the quality of education lies with the individual educational provider. Provides obligations to ensure that students receive evidence of final assessment and completion of education. Knowledge and skills shall be tested by law in a professionally sound manner. In the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that the term ‘professional’ covers more than training for a particular profession and that it must be understood in a broad perspective. It may include characteristics and skills that are needed in the workplace, such as: cooperation and creativity. The Christian People's Party and the majority believe that further education should be practical and theoretically oriented and provide training for society, the working life, the voluntary sector and the individual. The content of other societal needs can come from the fields of religion, ethics, art, creativity and leadership training in the voluntary sector. In this way, we stress that vocational education must also focus on voluntary sector tasks. The Christian People's Party wants flexible transitions between colleges and colleges and universities. This means that we must have a system in which education in vocational schools can be integrated into universities and universities. The description of final competence must be central to the assessment of whether an offer is to be accepted as a specialised school. Also new schools that are approved under the private school law §3d and e should be treated in the same way as approved schools today. Therefore, in relation to the Government's proposal, we have proposed a new second paragraph of Section 8. This means that schools currently approved under the Private School Act, in the case of Bible schools, art schools, and secretarial education, can now be recognized as subject schools. Each school will now be able to decide for itself whether they will be subject to the private school law or whether they will be subject to the new law on vocational education. However, they will be guaranteed government grants. This may include, inter alia: give Bible schooling a greater professional weight than they do today. In the Christian People's Party, we have always been concerned that these schools should retain their government grants, even when they become vocational schools. We think that's going to help secure the future of schools, because these schools haven't had any necessary parallels in high school. I know that this can mean a lot both for the individual student and for the voluntary sector, and also for the communities. We are now happy that we have secured the future of these schools. Finally, it is exciting that we now establish this approval system and give the area the status it deserves. I hope that the county councils now see the opportunity as a development actor, and start working together with the business community to contribute to the enhancement of their skills in the workplace. Then this education reform will have the effect we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e270	As the debate has so far shown, some of the main aims of the law today are to establish a system for the official recognition of the short vocational education and training courses provided by vocational schools. In this respect, the law is important, because it can mean both formalisation and, hopefully, predictability in these school services. The quality assessment will be carried out by the National Agency for the Quality of Education (NOCUT) and will be the key to ensuring that these training offers are guaranteed, in reality, both the quality assessment of recognition and the issue of final competence. NOCUT approval also means that the student's right to a loan and a scholarship becomes automatic. Today, technical colleges are legalized. Law on vocational schools replaces this law. At the same time, it is important, as the Committee stresses, that technical colleges should continue to contribute to the needs of the labour market for management training, training for advanced technical tasks and to meet national and international certification requirements. The Committee considers that there is still a task for which the public must take special responsibility, also in relation to the operational responsibility of the counties for the technical vocational schools, and that the State should be responsible for the financing. It is therefore also stressed that there should be a vocational school offer for students in all counties, either on their own or in cooperation between county municipalities. The Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and the SV, stresses that the specialised schools to receive public support according to a social need must be secured with basic funding and the rest as grants according to student numbers. This will ensure both continuity and predictability in the specialist offer. The centre party is pleased that an overall committee assumes that the Government will make some features of the framework grant to the county councils that take into account the students' families. An overall committee refers to the proposition and proposes that an extract be made from the framework grant based on COSTRA. The situation is that several county councils believe that the draft draft has been made on the wrong basis. A number of technical vocational schools have been established in several counties in recent years, while the county councils have concluded cooperation agreements to provide training to students from counties who do not themselves provide such training funded by guest student settlements. The centre party is also pleased that the majority believe that all specialised schools should have a board of directors, both public and private, and that students and employees should have full rights as board members. The centre party is a little surprised that a requirement for the creation of the Student Council has not been proposed, but only a recommendation to the school owner to facilitate the creation of the type of student body. The centre party believes that there is a deterioration in the rights of students compared to the existing law on technical vocational school. A well-functioning student democracy will be important to ensure good cooperation between students and school management, thereby ensuring the quality of the teaching and follow-up of the individual student. With that, I will be allowed to present the proposal from the Central Party mentioned in the vote, proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e287	The representative Arnstad has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e290	I think it is promising that there is such an extensive competition in the Chamber to support the Government's proposals. If it becomes a normal pattern, it promises very well. This case is a follow-up to the decision of the Berg Committee from 2000, which clearly demonstrated the need for shorter vocational education which is not covered by secondary education or the higher education system, and the need to regulate these short vocational education courses which cannot be covered by the Training Act, by the Law on Higher Education or by the Private Higher Education Act. This was not followed up to the point and dot as Stortinget wanted in St.meld. No 20 for 2000-2001, which was promoted by the former government, which considered that this need could partly be met in the market or through the higher education system. Now we have put forward a proposal which I think is good, and which the Government believes is good, but which should also meet the wishes of the Storting. It includes both private and public vocational training provision at the post-secondary level or on the basis of equivalent real skills, and thus at the level of half to two years. Some of the important things here is that this should be approved by an independent quality assurance body, NOCUT. There is no automatic right to government grants, but there is a possibility of government grants if other criteria are met and there is budgetary resources available to them. But it provides an automatic right of support in the Loan Box. I don't think we have any guarantee that this will be a very important law or a very important and comprehensive education offer in Norway. But potentially, I think it is very important, and I hope that this training offer will grow and become a very comprehensive offer in Norway. It will give us a more flexible education system in total, with more varied possibilities. It will be an option for very many people who, I believe, are not really motivated to take a very long-term, academic, heavy and research-based education in our higher education system. It will give status and prestige to the vocational education we already have, and to those we hopefully get, and it will be able to respond very much to the needs of the labour market, including the changing needs of the labour market, because they vary a lot and are changing a lot. Moreover, long-term social benefits could be high if this became an attractive training offer for many. I am pleased with the attitude that the Committee has given, and for the great degree of consensus that exists here in the Storting. I can't see that any of the comments – which the department will of course follow up on – are problematic in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e303	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e306	The Government Parties and the Advance Party have, here in Stortinget, gone further in the definition of the term ‘professional’, in addition to the department’s starting point. My opinion, as I said in my post, is that there is no limit at all to the needs of working life when the majority here have said that it is actually the individual's need one should take on board. The ministry has probably confirmed this in the process, so I would like to hear the Council of State's assessment. It is nice that the Council of State will call about the public, former technical colleges in addition to the existing offer financed under the Private School Act. My question is: will the Council of State also take a positive view of the expansion of the offer, both in terms of scope and perhaps also with new lines in the former technical colleges, which are to be operated in the county council? And will the Council of State possibly consider financing such offers in addition to the status quo?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e315	As far as funding is concerned, the law is designed to ensure that under this law NOCUT does not imply an automatic right to support, but that there is an opportunity for support. We have said that there should be support per year. Student, but we do not exclude, and will also assess, what is included in the adjustment, a basic funding. As for how many people can receive support, it depends on how good the application is, I have to say, but it also depends on what budgets you have. Finally, it will be a budgetary issue, because this will be a framework finance. I can't say for sure about the future, but personally, I hope – I'm sure it goes beyond my time as a government council – that this will be an emerging education offer. Then it'll probably cost more, but then I guess it's also socio-economically profitable. As far as vocational training is concerned, it is a major issue to touch on in 13 seconds, but I think it is quite difficult to assess what is needed in working life, and that is why it is now so important to talk about real competence. It is therefore also important that we leave this to an independent quality body that manages to monitor what has the quality that it deserves approval. Had I had a little more time, I would have told what the department is doing to help identify changing needs in the labour market, but I will come back to that on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e326	In connection with St.meld. No 20, in the case of short-term vocational education after secondary education, it was a clear majority who stated clearly that technical vocational schools should be financed by the State. Is it so that the Government interprets it as if only technical colleges of public ownership are to be financed by the State? And if the answer to that is yes, what is the basis for basing such an interpretation on?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e333	There is a requirement for county councils to make such offers. I noticed that the committee wants us to have a regulatory center on this. It's in and out of control. The Ministry has probably adopted a slightly more pragmatic approach because this has been imposed to a small extent in practice. We therefore believed that it had no purpose to include it in a new law. Now, when we change this system, we've probably meant – I have to make a small reservation here – to take care of the need for those who actually exist and receive grants today. That has been the purpose. One of the objectives of the provisions now introduced by the majority in this respect by the Private Schools Act is to create predictability and security for those covered by a system today when you move to a new system. It is reasonable in that, and then future offers will be adapted to the new law that is now being passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e340	I am pleased that the Council of State so strongly emphasizes that there is no automaticity in the grant. She also stressed that there should be budgetary coverage. I would probably like a similar principle to be applied when it comes to private schools in general. I see that there it's added up to another system, that's there it's automatic. However, in the case of grants for this type of education, there will be no automatic channelling, but budgetary resources to do so. Then to the professional level. After all, the Council of State has proposed that five months' training should be approved. Does the Council of State see that there may be long-term problems with the level of professional legitimacy needed in relation to business – do the Council of State have a good knowledge of business? And can this kind of short-term education in just five months, directed towards a profession, help weaken the legitimacy of the entire level?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e347	No, I don't think so. I think we need to get used to the fact that today there are a lot of ways to the goal of acquiring the necessary skills to be qualified in the lifelong learning perspective and in the real skills perspective. In addition, I believe that the quality criteria and approval systems here will be developed to a large extent in cooperation with industry and industry themselves. They'll be deep inside it, and therefore I don't think this will be a big problem. If you had a year as a minimum, it would also create some problems in relation to existing education. As far as I know, it's approx. 400 courses today that will then fall outside. I think that would also put a pressure on the other authorisation system, which we are now going away from, in relation to being approved only vis-à-vis the Loan Fund in order to obtain support rights. Now it is connected to being approved by NOCUT.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e355	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e360	I'm not going to last a long time, but since there's been a question raised by the representative from SV about how we deal with this with representation, I can spend a minute explaining it. We have made our own proposal on the part of the Progress Party, where, through the arrangement of it, we try to treat all drivers in the same way, or those who are called by the Progress Party in the text of the proposal, regardless of their ownership. We understand that when that proposal falls, we get a better clarification of what rights students and employees should have through the representation of the board of directors in the proposal from the Government than through the rather short proposal from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, where it only states that students and employees should be represented on the board. The Government's proposal refers to how they should be represented, they should have the right to meet, to speak and to make proposals. We could imagine that it was made clear and justified, but we realize that this is the best option we have to deal with when our proposal falls. We also have as our starting point the proposal of a government in an independent legal entity that those who sit in such a government are all sitting there with full rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e367	Very short: it may not always be the length of the proposal that determines whether it is good or bad. The proposal of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre is that the students of all boards, in any case, should have full rights, contrary to what the Government imposes, namely that they should have limited rights. That's the difference. I have understood that the Progress Party has previously agreed with us that they should have full rights, so I am a little surprised at the conclusion that came.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e372	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 505]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e380	Then Odelstinget can go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e388	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Vidar Bjørnstad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, by Ursula Evje on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsenproposal No. 4, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e452	There are three different proposals. That is proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, to the fourth paragraph, first sentence, proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, to the new fourth paragraph and proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen, to the first paragraph. In the first place, the first paragraph of Section 3 of the suspension is replaced by the proposal of the Progress Party and the representative Jan Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows: «Article 3, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: providers of vocational school education shall be organised as an independent legal entity with a board of directors as the top responsible governing body.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e472	The first sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 3 is then replaced by the first sentence of proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 3 shall be replaced by the following:Students and staff shall be represented in the Management Board.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e489	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 3 new fourth paragraph shall be replaced by the following:Providers owned by the State, the county or the municipality shall have a board of directors as their top responsible governing body.The fourth subparagraph shall become the fifth subparagraph.’. The President has understood that, once their proposal has been dropped, the Progress Party will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e511	The other paragraphs and sentences of Section 3 are then addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e535	Section 4, fourth paragraph, contains an aberrant proposal, No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 4, fourth paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: in each specialised school, which provides training of at least one year, there shall be a Board of Students: [[with at least one member for every 20 students]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e606	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have warned that they are going against the second term, and it is only voted above this term.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e645	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e655	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-29-lower.ana.ud2096e665	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
