ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e31	Some time ago we received an enquiry from two girls from the Workers' Party. They were completely exhausted from trying to recover — which was too demanding — and rehabilitation, which did not provide any medical improvement. Both girls were between 30 and 40 years old. They had worked well with doctors' and social security offices, but they didn't get any better. For one of them, it was difficult to put any precise diagnosis on what she was suffering, and therefore also very difficult to know anything about the duration of disability. For the other, the problem was muscle and skeletal damage, in combination with allergy. She was a trained hairdresser, but simply to find out what would be the right choice for a future profession. I hope and believe that these two girls can be examples of people who in the future will be offered temporary unpaid pay. We need a system where people can take health into account, and then eventually find out what choices they're going to take in their lives. Temporary untied pay can be the solution for a period for people for whom we do not have an appropriate offer today. In other words, we in the Workers' Party are pleased that the temporary disability scheme is now being established, but we deeply disagree with the design of the social security scheme. In the Workers' Party, we believe that a secure economy over a difficult period is essential in order to ensure motivation and capacity to return to work. It is not motivating to provide higher benefits to those who are permanently unfit for work and to narrow benefits to those who receive temporary unpaid pay. The poor economy and the poorer measurement of any later disability and old-age benefits may, on the contrary, be counterproductive to the whole purpose of the temporary non-employment benefit. And here we are at the heart of the criticism we in the Workers' Party are going to promote towards the Government and the great majority. We know that very many unsatisfied people are struggling with poor finances. In particular, this applies to all those who receive minimum benefits. Many of these today depend on being able to supplement social security regularly with social assistance. It's unworthy. So the government is promoting a proposal that will lead to many of those who are now going to get temporary unpaid pay even worse than today's unemployed. It seems that the idea behind it is that only the performances will be low enough, so the number of unsatisfied will be reduced. We think the opposite will happen. The low performance will lead to paralysis of action. A person in economic distress will not have the power to actively participate in creating his own future. Of course, it is good that the Progress Party helps to correct some of the weaknesses of the Government's proposal. However, it does not prevent many of those who are now going to receive temporary untied pay to get out significantly worse than they would do with today's legislation on disability benefits. It is primarily due to the fact that the tax rules currently in force for retired and disabled persons are not applicable to those who will be temporarily disabled in the future. The Progress Party and the Right, therefore, impose a significant tax tightening on the very weakest. It's amazing. The scheme of the majority implies the establishment of a minimum level of temporary unpaid pay of NOK 85 492. To this, Federal Head Gunnar Buvik of the Handicap Association said to the evening post yesterday: ‘When they lower income levels, they only create new social clients. We are forced down to the poverty line. ... We need the level of social security that we have today.” I agree with Gunnar Buvik. In addition, the fact is that the calculation rules for the temporary disability benefit for many result in much lower income than the current disability benefit rules. Most people who receive temporary unemployment benefit will also get worse on the day they become pensioners because they have had several years of low income. Then to other aspects of what we are dealing with today. It's good that disability benefit from now can be determined from 5 to 100 pst, with 5 pst. intervals. This provides room for flexibility which the Workers' Party believes is in the interests of the users. However, the limit of temporary benefit shall be 50 pst. However, I have a hope that this will not affect too many, and that those who are assessed to a small degree of inadequacy will be able to generally assess their situation within the timeframes for rehabilitating and rehabilitation. It is also good that the bulk of the population adds that the disabled can retain the possibility to earn 1 G in addition to the social security. However, there are important issues related to the right to earn 1 G that the majority does not take inwards. Some time back, I met a divorced granddaddy, who, due to mental problems, had been untrained for many years. He had by means of the Fontenehuset here in Oslo got back a little faith in himself. It had led him to venture to take on a small postal route in addition to the disability. It was a wonderful victory for him that he was able to carry out this job for a whole year. The income at one year's effort was at the lower of one basic amount. For him, the extra income made it possible to do something more, buy a little good that otherwise was not room for in the weekends with the son, and even travel a little week during the son's summer vacation. But then came the big shock, which took all the courage from the man. Because he had earned 1 G, the social security office demanded that the child supplement be refunded. He was also asked to pay back the housing allowance corresponding to the income he had had. In the view of the Labour Party, these are unreasonable arrangements, and I regret that the majority cannot join in comments asking for a review of the legislation in this area. So finally, there's one group that's getting badly into the social security system, and that's the group that the Christian People's Party very often holds its hand over, namely the housewives. Housewives – or to some extent housewives – will have a difficult path to temporary unpaid pay, as the benefit requires them to return to work. It is likely that many of those who become pregnant while working at home also want future participation in employment. The vast majority of those at home are planning to take work away from home again. Today, the government is pursuing a comprehensive policy that stimulates many young women to stay home while the children are young. I am thinking in particular of the cash support. It is unreasonable, on the basis of such considerations, that the home may encounter serious difficulties in granting temporary disability benefits. It is regrettable that the majority of people in this way are distorting the functioning of the scheme. The temporary system has created yet another problem – and the rapporteur was also concerned about it – namely, what happens to insurance payments on default policies? We should avoid people losing insurance rights. It is when new problems arise that there is perhaps the greatest need for funds in a transitional phase. It is desirable that these issues be further investigated, and I hope that the Government will contribute to it, in cooperation with the insurance industry. With this I address the suggestions Worker Party is included in the setting. In this context, I have the following comment: In the event of an incurrency, it has not been stated that we – and that is the case when the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV – will also vote against the majority's proposal for § 17-1, first paragraph, point (a) of the Tax Act, which deals with the tax restriction rules for pensioners and disabled persons.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e78	The representative Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has drawn up the proposal he referred to, and gave an explanation of the voice that is noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e81	The attitude of the Social Committee to changes to the disability pension scheme will make it easier to get back to work for those who are able to do so. Today, the few unearned pensioners come back to work. The goal of the changes The size today has been invited to adopt is more in work and fewer in social security. This reform of disability pension is an example of active social policy. The number of new unearned pensioners has increased sharply in the 1990s, and by the end of 2003 there will be about 300,000 unearned pensioners in the country. This means that there are more unemployees than industrial workers in Norway. An overall social committee has expressed concern about this development. The work of an inclusive working life is an important tool to counteract that trend. For individuals, labour relations are the most important insurance against poverty, while providing a basis for independence and social inclusion. The current disability pension scheme seems static by rarely re-assessing his or her working capacity after the disability pension has been granted. The introduction of a temporary unemployment allowance opens up the possibility for people with residual working capacity to return to work in the course of a four-year period. The introduction of a temporary unemployment allowance opens up the possibility for people with residual working capacity to return to work in the course of a four-year period. These changes also make it easier to escalate the workload gradually by establishing the degree of performance by 5 pst. intervals below. The aim of the reform is to increase employment and reduce social security. That being said, we must also acknowledge and take into account that someone will never have the opportunity to return to work in whole or in part. It cannot, however, prevent us from doing any action that would result in a risk of returning to work, a greater chance of doing so. These changes aim to reduce the number of new disability pensioners and to prevent permanent disability. In addition, the amendments shall facilitate the return to work for persons with residual working capacity. In this context, it has been necessary to put in place mechanisms and make changes that will help to achieve this objective. It will be easier to achieve this by dividing the disability scheme into a permanent disability pension and a temporary disability allowance. A permanent disability pension shall be granted to the victim without any prospect of improvement. Temporary unpaid pay shall be provided for up to four years in the case of high residual or insecure working capacity. In order to mark this distinction, the majority of the Committee will relate the calculation of the fixed-term zero-tire rate to the rules on recovery and recovery. This is an important change because it will signal that the scheme has similarities with social welfare schemes based on a return to working life and that the need for social benefits is assumed to be temporary. In the context of this conversion, it is also proposed to increase the minimum level of both rehabilitation and rehabilitation benefits, which would then be at least 1.8 times the basic amount, like temporary unpaid pay. The fact that the downgrading can be determined by 5 pst. intervals, compared to the previous 10 pst., will provide greater flexibility and facilitate a more gradual increase in labour input. In addition, some of the so-called threshold effects that make it economically unprofitable to escalate work activity are reduced. A unanimous committee has gone in to keep the income of 1 G. In this context, I would like to mention that a unanimous committee has also voted in favour of a social security ceiling which implies that the total amount of social security and labour income cannot exceed the level of income before disability. With this, we will avoid adverse thresholds which mean that economic losses are incurred by returning to work. The majority, i.e. the Government Parties and the Advance Party have also proposed that the Storting ask the Government to assess different models which can better ensure that it is always worthwhile to work more for persons who receive temporary unpaid pay or disability pension and return to the Storing. It must always pay to work, and to increase the work effort. In order to ensure equal treatment between men and women in relation to the assessment of applications for early retirement, specific rules are proposed for part-time working women. The Government Parties and the Advance Party, which constitute the majority of the caste, have reached an agreement that meets the Government's objectives, to pursue a more active social policy, which will lead to more active and fewer social security. The majority of the Committee supports the Government’s proposal to calculate temporary non-cash payments according to the same model as the one for rehabilitation and recovery payments. However, the majority have agreed to raise the temporary unpaid salary from 60 p.m. – which was the government’s proposal – to 66 pst. on the basis of the calculation, which is the same as for rehabilitation and refurbishment benefits. 60 pst may be too low if a person is to be motivated to get into work, while at the same time feeling the need for financial security. The intention of temporary unemployment benefit is not achieved if a person does not actively work by not having the necessary financial security to be permanently disabled, rather than trying to get back to work. The Government Parties and the Advance Party agree to have the same rules for temporary entry as those for rehabilitation or resettlement, with the exception of the special deduction. The majority do not want to address the question of special deductions in this case, but expect the Skauge Committee to assess this issue in the tax regime setting. This means that the majority in the vote is in favour of a special deduction for the person who has been suspended for a limited period of time. The minority in the committee refuses to make changes that can help people get back to work. The large number of disabled people and the very few coming back to work show that active grips are needed to reverse this trend. It is, of course, a good thing that a unanimous committee ends up introducing temporary unpaid pay, but when the minority will not even help to break it off from the pension system and link it to the rehabilitation and rehabilitation system, it becomes somewhat half-hearted over it — especially after the majority of the committee has made changes in the areas to which the minority is most critical in its comments. Of course, it is possible to launch other solutions that address the major challenge of reducing the number of disabled people, and especially new ones. When the minority does not, but only criticises the Government's proposals and the majority's position, the problem is not taken seriously. What is the solution to the left-hand side to reduce the number of disabled people? It looks like the left-hand side only manages to describe the problems, but does not have the solutions. Of course, it is possible to sit still and make as little as possible and hope that development turns itself off, but the chance of it is very little. The minority's one-sided focus on the fact that the government's policy of reducing social security is only about the level of social security benefits falls on its own unfairness. The government with the Social Minister at the head has, among other things: focussed heavily on an inclusive working life aimed at using a wide range of instruments to avoid exclusion from the labour market. Such changes that are being made today may quickly create uncertainties as to the possible effects on the individual beneficiary of the benefits. In this context, it is important to stress that permanent disability pension is calculated on the basis of income at the time of disability and that permanent disability pension is thus not reduced as a result of the receipt of temporary unpaid pay. For each year from the default date, the credit is to be paid for future pension credits calculated on the basis of the income before default. Persons who go on a continuous basis to temporary social security schemes before they move to a permanent disability pension are as favourable as today’s system. And even though persons who return to work after a period of temporary benefits will have a period of slightly lower grades, the best-year rule will make this not particularly important for most people. In summary, the changes Odelsting is making today, providing more people in work and fewer in social security. Social policy must not consist of sending people a check in the mailbox, and then forgetting them. We owe it to those who have an opportunity to get back to work in whole or in part, to pursue an active social policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e117	SV has welcomed the introduction of the concept of ‘temporary untied pay’ on the basis of the argument that there should be greater flexibility in the area of social security and its rules. People's religion is very rule-driven, and today it lacks flexibility in many areas, which can be very unreasonable. However, we disagree with the approach taken by the majority here, and have warned against it for a long time. Obviously, the philosophy that seems to be at the root of this is that the less you pay people in benefits, the more certain you may be that someone then gets pushed back into a work situation on the basis of a kind of assumption that there is really a lack of goodwill that is the reason for your absence. I have to reflect a little about previous speakers' speeches, because the difference in reality between the minority and the majority here depends on the size of the benefit, it does not depend on the other law and the possibility of granting temporary disability pension, but it is about reducing that benefit so that it becomes less than permanent disability pension. The SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre have been set up is a performance of the same level as if the performance had been permanently obtained. And that's not a consideration we're alone about. Here we talk about 'left-wing' policy. But I see that the evening post yesterday, June 4th, had a look at it saying, «Many people will lose money on a new scheme». Then you give a number example, which Bjarne Håkon Hanssen also had in mind, where the lowest fixed-term unpaid salary is NOK 85 492, while the lowest unpaid pension is NOK 97 140. I would like to hear the reasons for this from the Progress Party, which is the party most likely to offer bids and offers in relation to pensioners in general, but which suddenly takes a completely different view from those who have been in a working relationship and lose their income because of illness, and then in a transitional phase either seek to get back to work and get a benefit in the meantime, or perhaps end up being permanently disabled. It is very difficult to see the logic that you should then remove the economic floor you have to stand on in the meantime. There's necessarily a whole here. It's not that the economy of the individual can vary a lot, and then you have to do well: the house will stand there, the car will be there, the children will be there – so the needs will be there, and they will of course be the most difficult to cover in a phase that we're talking about here, which is unpredictable as to what will become the further fate. I am surprised at the rhetoric that government parties are willing to go into, and that I heard that the minority was met with. It's an understandable rhetoric if you argue that based on an overall cost level, you can't afford to give someone who's temporarily disabled, the same thing you give it permanent disability, just because it's going to cost too much. But it's not very credible to argue that it should be better for themselves, and then pay less. We have mentioned a different aspect of this bill from SV, and it goes on rehabilitation money. I was in contact with a woman who had had breast cancer with spread and who had had the disease for many years. He/she has been in a job and has worked to varying degrees, depending on his/her condition. After all, there have been time limitations on rehabilitation money and, in addition, a definition that states that they are ‘under treatment with a view to improvement’. A patient with cancer with a spread, which is not cured, cannot be said to be ‘under treatment with a view to improvement’. The result in that case was that the woman lost all her benefits and had to have social assistance as an additional benefit. In this respect, both temporary unpaid pay, but also the possibility of rehabilitation benefits under such conditions as are fortunately agreed by the entire Committee in the notes, will allow him/her, and others in the same situation, to obtain a benefit and have the flexibility between work a few days when one is healthy enough, and social security benefits when one may have to be treated for his/her illness or get worse. This is an example of the type of flexibility we want in SV. We believe that the entire social security system had served to be less regulated from above and more receptive to impulses from below, not least from the many social security workers who come into contact with people every day, and who see those kinds of examples, so that they could have been caught up and thus ensured that people didn't end up in an economic disaster. That is what unfortunately will be the case for a good part with the proposal that the majority here supports. It is very close to thinking that the measure here is not primarily aimed at ensuring that either a lasting benefit in the form of disability pension or comes back to work if you get well enough, but that it is a measure to save money and re-establish the economic screw, so that fewer end up with benefits that cost society a lot. I would have liked the government parties and the Progress Party to justify their criticism in a better way against the minority than Heieren Hundhammer did here. If you think that paying people better benefits — when you depend on social security benefits — leads to getting into a bigger disaster, you have to have more substance in the criticism than Heieren Hundhammer had in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e132	It is worrying that by the end of 2001, we had over 285,000 disability pensioners in Norway. The government aims to reverse this negative trend, where more and more people are out of work and become permanent beneficiaries. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal to introduce a fixed-term unpaid wage, as well as today's permanent unpaid salary. This makes it easier to return to work by reviewing working capacity over a four-year period. This is a follow-up to the Sandman Committee, which wanted such a time-limited non-employment allowance and more flexible rules for the combination of work and social security. I am pleased that a unanimous social committee supports this. The size has previously determined that the medical examiner’s assessment of disability in sick leave should be based on a functional assessment. Experience from several IA companies shows that other occupational groups, such as ergo- and physiotherapists, can carry out this functional assessment in a good way. It is important to facilitate more fully the testing of performance. The Christian People's Party believes it is good that one initiates a three-year trial for young people with a clear medical diagnosis, where their working capacity is reduced by less than 50 pst. The Christian People's Party believes it is right that unpaid pay is limited in time, like other short-term benefits such as rehabilitation benefits and re-employment benefits, and not permanent retirement benefits. This indicates that the scheme should be temporary. It also gives a positive signal that the scheme is meant to be a return to work. The government parties, together with the Progress Party, have a majority in order to set the compensation rate to 66 pst. on the basis of the calculation of those covered by the temporary unpaid pay scheme. The minimum performance is increased to 1,8 G. The same majority also ensures that those covered by the temporary zero-tire scheme shall also retain the special deduction. There is reason to believe that this issue will be carefully considered when addressing the tax regime of the Skauge Committee. The income of 1 G will be retained, both for permanent disability pension and for temporary unpaid pay. This means a lot to those who are disabled, who already have a small extra income through care pay, or who are active in association and policy and receive compensation for it. Work shall always pay off. Therefore, a social security ceiling is correct, which means that the total amount of social benefits and labour income does not exceed the level of income before a disability occurs. One must avoid adverse thresholds which mean that a person loses money on going back to work. For women who have worked part-time, it is said that the special rule that the disability assessment of part-time workers should also take into account the ability to do work at home is now being lifted. This is about equality and about equivalency.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e155	There are both positive and negative factors in this case, basically, unfortunately most negative factors. But some of them manage a majority of the committee to do something about it. When the government proposed last year to reduce the level of income for the disabled from 1 G to 0.1 G, it was – rightly – a great upswing. Fortunately, this has now been cleared of the road, both for those who have permanent unpaid pay, and for those who have temporary unpaid pay. It must be the opposite of creating incentives for professional activity and own earnings to do such an act as the Government tried to do here. It is also good that the compensation requirement for temporary unpaid pay is raised from 60 to 66 pst. by the basis of calculation. It also raises a majority in the Committee. But when one then comes to most of the other, it's very thoughtful and negative. The representative Beate Heieren Hundhammer said it must always pay to work. I agree. It should not be the case that you are left with more living by being insured than by working. But there are some people in this society who are unable to work, and there are some – at least in periods of shorter or longer time – who can only partially work, and for these they need to be facilitated so that they can live decently. Heieren Hundhammer asked what was the alternative to the left-hand side – and I think she also placed me and my party there. I'll answer that a little bit. The company's internal refurbishment has been strongly in favour. The IA companies, which were actually part of the support schemes here, have changed a lot lately, but at least we have something good left. What we do, among other things, have demonstrated during this last period of the Stortinget, that we need to improve the organisation of workers with disabilities, so that they can get into work, and without burdening employers — such as those in employment. to propose the removal of 0,5 G for which the employer is required to organise a job. I hope that this comes into place for all businesses relatively quickly. The Ministry introduces a fixed-term unpaid salary, which is not to be included in retirement benefits. This too is a bit confusing, for this benefit is to be detached from the pension scheme and instead linked to the legislation on rehabilitation and rehabilitation. This is where we in the minority react in particular. This proposal involves the temporary loss of the special tax deduction by disabled persons, the payment of full social security contributions, a substantial reduction in the amount of the child supplement compared to the disabled, and the absence of any spouse allowance. We believe that this is the opposite of combating poverty, which this government has undertaken to do. These constraints will create more poor and more need for complementary social assistance. It will, together with problems in health and social conditions, create economic conditions that, at least I believe, give less strength and motivation to seek employment. There is the greatest weakness in the implementation of this system today. Then, like Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, I would like to make some comments. to those working at home who are required to apply for this pension. Housewives and housewives have serious problems in getting such temporary unpaid pay if it is assumed that they are going back to work when they have not been working in the last period. This has to be done to make it easier for people working at home/at home to receive the support they need. This with insurance payments has been in the hands of both the case rapporteur and others. Insurance payments made by private insurance companies in the event of disability, we have probably all pointed out, should now be clarified, that a case may be brought back, and that this should be clarified in relation to the main organisation of the financial industry. Like Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, I want to signal that we are going against Section 17-1, first paragraph, point (a).
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e178	Odelstinget is currently examining an important reform of today’s disability pension scheme. The aim is to enable more people to participate in — and return to — employment, rather than to stand outside, parked on a permanent disability pension. The changes in the disability scheme shall facilitate this, together with an active follow-up on the part of the social security system in relation to the individual. The labour force is Norway's main resource. The future creation of value and opportunities to develop welfare systems depends on labour supply and how effectively we are able to use resources, but also on the knowledge that each individual has. Although we currently have an increasing unemployment rate, population development suggests that we will eventually have a shortage of labour, especially in public and private services. In addition, high take-offs in various early retirement and social security schemes will further reduce labour supply and weaken economic growth opportunities. At the end of 2002, 292,000 people received disability pension. In today's system, it is only to a very limited extent that people with a disability pension come back to work. The challenge in the future is to maintain a high level of professional participation. We need to pursue a policy that prevents more and more people from falling out of the workforce, while at the same time making it possible for more people with disabilities to enter the labour market. Participation in the labour market is the best guarantee against poverty and major social differences. It also provides individual opportunities for social contact and the use of their abilities. Work must become more inclusive. Too many people with disabilities who want a job do not get into the workplace, and too many older workers are pushed out. The objectives of the IA to employ far more people with disabilities and to increase the average age of retirement from work are important precisely to meet these challenges. Ot. pp. No 102 follows up the objectives of the Intention Agreement and the obligations of the State following the agreement through the conversion of the disability pension scheme. I am pleased that a majority support the main principles of the reform – the introduction of a time-limited disability benefit and a new method of calculation that indicates that this benefit is a short-term benefit rather than a retirement benefit. In order to get more people back to work and less on a permanent disability pension, the Government proposes the introduction of a temporary unpaid salary. The introduction of a temporary benefit shall prevent permanent exclusion from the labour market and will also indicate that not all applicants for a disability pension shall have a permanent benefit. The temporary benefit shall be provided for a period from one to four years to all those who have a certain capacity to work or when future working capacity is uncertain. About 50 pst. of the new disability pensioners have muscle and skeletal disorders or mild mental disorders. These are health problems that do not necessarily result in permanent disability. Some of these could come back to work after some time, for example. because health has improved, because new treatment measures have been developed or because working conditions are better suited. However, many people need more time to get back to work than the current system provides. At the same time, individual follow-up and return to work must also be ensured during this period. Time-limited unpaid pay shall be calculated as a rehabilitation or refurbishment allowance. At the request of the majority in the vote, the benefit will be 66 pst. of the pensioner’s income last year or three years before disability occurred. Taxes on unpaid pay are paid as if they were labour income, but in return they also earn pension points. Equal tax rules that are important for labour income to facilitate increased labour input and to ensure that there is no tax loss on the replacement of social benefits with labour income. This means that the tax limitation rules applicable to old-age pensioners and disability pensioners with a reduced income capacity of at least 2/3 will not apply to beneficiaries of temporary unpaid pay. These tax rules do not give incentives to return to work. Therefore, a person with former means and low incomes would be able to lose to increase labour income. Therefore, continuing the current tax-restriction rules for pensioners also for recipients of temporary unpaid pay would be counterproductive for the purpose of the benefit – to facilitate the return to work. I am pleased that the majority supports the Government's proposals on this point. With regard to the special deduction for old-age and disability pensioners, I note that the majority will until further notice apply this to recipients of temporary unemployment benefit and come back to this in the context of the follow-up to the Skauge Committee's suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e201	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e204	Several have pointed out that the evening post yesterday had an excellent article on the matter we are dealing with today – that is not always the case when the social committee is dealing with matters. There's an interview with a disabled person named Hans Christoffer Johnsen. He says, "We are forced into poverty." Hans Christoffer Johnsen is newly educated and unskilled. He is afraid disabled people must live on the poverty line with the new system. Johnsen says: "It seems like they're trying to starve people into work, but the problem for us who are disabled is that we don't get a job." I would think that most people in this room, including the Council of State, are busy having good contact with users, having good user involvement. What makes those who wear their shoes fail to realize that the Council of State has good intentions with what she is now proposing?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e214	What the representative Hanssen addresses, namely the contact with users and user organisations, is also very important to me. There is some reason why it has been important to differentiate a time-limited non-entry fee from giving permanent disability benefits. I also know the title and content of the article in the evening post only from the evening post, but I would like to comment in particular that the article in the evening post gives a somewhat distorted representation of the social security level of temporary unpaid pay, based on the assumption that all newcomers on the labour market will receive a minimum benefit. I would like to point out that if the working capacity is reduced before the age of 26 due to serious and persistent illness, the minimum performance is 2.4 times the basic amount of the population's interest, and that is approximately NOK 130000. I am concerned that the social security scheme, in relation to temporary unpaid pay, should be such that it also pursues what is true of social security schemes for rehabilitation and rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e226	There are two small issues – really, there are major issues – that I would like to ask the Social Minister to comment on. One goes on to debate how much will be lost as a result of the conversion of this system, and at least as stated in the proposal, this conversion will relate to new cases, i.e. cases after 1 January 2004. I would ask the Minister for Social Affairs to confirm what is being proposed, that the scheme will apply to new cases, and that those who have been granted non-employment benefit today will not lose it. The second question relates to what a unanimous committee refers to in terms of the concept of ‘temporary unpaid pay’ and to issues related to insurance schemes and to the main organisation of the financial industry. A unanimous committee asks for contact and a system to be set up with the Financial Industry’s Main Organisation, so that the changes in concepts and systems that Odelsting here makes should not be lost. Will the Council of State take such an initiative towards the financial industry, so that we can get this on track?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e235	As regards the first question, I confirm that it applies to new cases, and that applies from the date of effect on 1 January 2004. With regard to the second element, the insurance relationship, it is an important issue. The Ministry is in dialogue with the insurance industry on how to adapt their products to the new system of temporary unpaid pay, in order to contribute to the clarifications in relation to the use of the concept of disability requested by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e242	I want back to those who are sick, who suffer from serious, life-threatening diseases with uncertain predictions, and what social benefits they can get. An overall committee has pointed out that the guidelines for the admission of rehabilitation money must be designed in such a way that a person can have a flexibility that allows these people to alternate between work and social security, which was also the subject of the representative, Ballo. The Committee says that in such cases it must be possible to grant classified rehabilitation allowances down to 20 pst. Will the Council of State facilitate this and come back with guidelines, so that there can be equal treatment for this category of people, who can then alternate between their jobs for good periods and have the right and the economy to be ill in other periods?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e251	I have received many enquiries on this uncertainty about whether you are permanently or temporarily unemployed, and I would like to say to Glow violence that it is at least worth stressing that where the prospect of working ability is not present, there is no doubt that you should have a permanent disability. The whole matter of temporary unpaid pay has, among other things, as a basis for greater flexibility between being at work and having social security benefits. You have to be able to alternate, but you also have to have a smaller degree of disability in percent to combine it with work. I'm going to follow it up as a collective committee points out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e258	There can be no doubt that there is nothing more profitable economically than being in a job. After all, any social security benefits will be lower over time than if you are at work. However, I note that the government parties go into a type of rhetoric that goes on that if you are paid too well, that would be unfortunate. And then you kind of want to deal with it and not actively look at it in a different state. I want to ask the social minister what is the logic – if there were any logic in it – if you were to follow such reasoning that I registered that Heieren Hundhammer was inside. With a lower temporary benefit than a permanent pension, it would mean that it would pay off without delay to seek a permanent disability pension instead of a temporary disability pension. Can the Council of State explain to me the logic of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e267	It sounds like the government's busy starving people back to work. I would like to remind you that the starting point for the whole of this case is just to help more people with disabilities to participate actively in the labour market, that we need to have arrangements to facilitate it, that temporary unpaid pay is a temporary benefit and must also be combined with active measures to just get back to work, and that the level of benefits is comparable to that currently applicable in relation to rehabilitation and rehabilitation schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e272	No more words have been asked for. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 793]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e289	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Right and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will propose that there be three lines of reply given by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e298	The amendment to the People's Security Act affects nine different aspects, of which the Committee is in agreement in eight. The proposal proposes some material changes as well as regulatory adjustments for the purpose of clarification and simplification. The changes in reality are proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2003, while the more legislative adjustments are proposed to enter into force immediately. The proposals relate to the first extension of the period for which rehabilitation benefits may be provided with an unadapted rate of less than 50 p.p. and are increased from three to six months. The Committee agrees. In addition, the Government proposes that travel allowances to the place of education instead of rehabilitation allowances can be provided to students. It seems illogical today that students on a par with others should not be able to receive a travel allowance if there is an alternative to going on a rehabilitation allowance so that they can continue the studies. The Committee supports it. The Committee also agrees that the care allowance scheme for children’s disease should be adapted more closely to current family patterns, so that it also becomes valid for cohabitants and for foster parents. The Committee also supports the adaptation and equivalence of the shortening rules for children's pensions while staying in an institution of the same size as for adult pensioners. There have been some misunderstandings related to reimbursement requirements in case of maternity-related absences on the basis of a provision applying retroactive restrictions. The Committee agrees with the Government's view that there must be specific rules in pregnancy because the pregnant person may initially have his reasons for not informing the employer that it is the pregnancy that causes illness. Where the Committee is not in agreement, this concerns the adjustment of the criteria for care allowance for children in hospital. The Committee has previously referred the matter to the Court on the basis of a Document No. 8-proposals, and then the rules were amended, so that care money could be granted without requiring a minimum period of residence in an institution. When handling the case, and when you come back to Stortinget with it, it is suggested that there should be a minimum of three days for an institution to be able to provide care. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the SV and the Centre Party, disagree. We understand the Government's argument that there should be a certain threshold in order to be able to accept care allowance, and have therefore chosen in the legal text to clarify that it should be a matter of hospitalisation, i.e. not just an outpatient contact at a treatment site, but that one is actually admitted. However, the majority of the Committee considers that, if a special institution is first established, the duration of the institution's insertion cannot be decisive for the eligibility of care allowance or not. As medical progress has been, we see that a number of partly serious conditions do not necessarily require long-term stays in the institution itself, but it may require the presence of parents after discharge which may be long-term. The majority of the Committee has therefore chosen not to limit the number of days spent in an institution, but to specify that an institution should be required in advance in order to be entitled to a care allowance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e326	In this proposition, the government has made a number of correct and necessary changes to the law on popular protection that will make everyday life easier and more flexible for a number of users. The change that is likely to affect most people, and which is a change adapted to the world of reality, is the adaptation of the care allowance scheme for children's disease to today's family patterns. Given the extent of family types other than the traditional core family, the care allowance scheme is over-ripe for change. By giving parents or parents the right to take care of their child’s illness, the children will be able to care for adults to whom they may be as attached as they are to those who have parental responsibility. These changes will also make everyday life easier for those who, in a couple relationship, are alone on formal parental responsibility. As regards proposals for amendments relating to the curtailment rules for child pensions while staying in an institution, it is obvious that children should not have more restrictive rules than those applicable to adult pensioners. This has never been the intention either, but has happened, as far as I can understand, that children's pensions were simply forgotten when there were legislative changes concerning the curtailment rules for pensions in institutions in the autumn of 2001. Similarly, it is only positive that there is an opportunity to grant students travel allowances to the place of education instead of rehabilitation allowances, and that the period for which rehabilitation allowances can be provided is extended for those with a disability of less than 50 pst. Both changes will enable them to come back to work more easily. All of these changes that I have now mentioned are a unanimous committee behind them. There are only two alternative solutions at one point: adjusting the criteria for care allowance for children’s hospital stays. With background in the examination of Document No. 8:123 for 2201-2002, the Government has put forward a proposal for a better health care scheme for children in hospital. The Government proposes that it be available from the eighth day if the child has been admitted to a health institution for at least three days. There is a strong improvement in today’s system that requires accommodation for seven days. The proposal is intended to provide an annual increase of approximately 75 million. kr. The Government Parties support the Government's proposal. The proposal would have been targeted at those who today fall outside both the care and care systems, while not moving parents who are currently being covered by the care allowance scheme into the care scheme. The opposition does not support this proposal. They only want the child to be required to be admitted to an institution. This means, in practice, that the limit is at one day. This is, however, a narrowing in relation to the decision during the examination of Document No. The 8 proposal, which did not require accommodation at all, but the government parties will insist that the Government's proposal will target the scheme against cases where there is the greatest need for care, and against those that fall outside both the care and care arrangements. I also support the majority's observation that the government's three-day residence limit does not seem to be a logical limit. In that case, there is no logical limit to one day either. To the extent that you're going to talk about logic at all, there shouldn't have been any limit at all, like the decision on Document No. The 8th proposal. There may also be situations where treatment without hospitalisation is involved, which nevertheless trigger a need for care, for example. 10 days. I also have to add that the majority's proposal is estimated at 150 to 155 million. kr. This year, 80 million. kr. more than the Government's proposals. It is nice to say yes for all good purposes, but some of us are still concerned with improving existing arrangements without choosing the most expensive solutions. Since this bill enters into force on 1 July 2003, I expect the majority to take this into account in the revised national budget. In addition to the changes in this specific area, where the entire Social Committee wants a better system, but where two different solutions have been dropped, there is an overall committee behind it. There is an attitude that contains a number of suggestions that, as I said in the introduction, will make everyday life easier and more flexible for a number of user groups. I'll bring this up with the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e356	The representative Beate Heieren Hundhammer has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e359	Since there is a great deal of agreement on most of the amendments to the People's Security Act, I would just like to draw up a few of the proposals proposed by the Government to amend the People's Security Act, which the Social Committee has to deal with today. For the Christian People's Party and for myself, it is important that the situation for families who are under pressure both on time and on economics is arranged for arrangements that help to reduce the pressure and ease everyday life. Often, only minor changes are needed to make a big difference to those involved. This applies, inter alia, to: the scheme of care allowance for children’s disease. Many are surprised when they learn that foster parents do not have the right to care even if they have a sick unborn child. Of course, they have to be away from work anyway, but without pay. Section 33A of the Working Environment Act gives the foster parents the right to leave if the unborn child becomes ill, but this leave does not provide any benefit from social security. Today's proposal now equates foster parents and other parents with regard to entitlement to care allowance for children's or child care workers' illness, according to the Swedish Social Security Act § 9-5. For foster parents who take on the task of caring for the children of others, preferably for several years, I believe that such a scheme will mean a significant change for the better. I also believe that social services in each municipality to recruit new foster parents have an easier job when they present the potential foster parents with the social arrangements. This may help to increase the motivation to become a foster parent. To date, the scheme has not been adapted to the new family structures in Norway today. Even if you have lived with your new wife or child, you have not been entitled to care if the child is sick one day and you must be away from work. More and more families feel that society is breaking up and new families are being established. Modernising the law on popular protection, which takes this into account, is for the benefit of those concerned. The Christian People's Party believes it is positive that the Government prioritises greater flexibility and individual solutions. This proposal brings the law more into line with the care situation in many families. There was a great deal of agreement on this in the committee. As regards the criteria for care allowance for children’s hospital stays, the consensus was not the same. Government parties find it problematic to provide care after a short period of time when they have a care allowance scheme. The purpose of care allowance is that it is provided when the child needs long-term care. Care allowance has the possibility for each parent to withdraw for up to 10 days each year, and these will trap those who have children who have uncomplicated disease cases. The government has set a limit here to meeting those who today fall outside both the care and care systems. Thus, we target the scheme against cases where the care needs are greatest, and not so that the parents who are currently receiving the needs of the care scheme are moved into the care scheme. This, however, represents a clear improvement in the current system, which only triggers care when the child has been admitted for seven days. When you set a limit of three days, you also catch the rather uncomplicated cases that require longer periods of time at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e378	I am pleased with some of the suggestions in Ot.prp. No 56 for 2002-2003, inter alia: for the extension of the period for which rehabilitation benefits may be provided to persons with a disability of less than 50 pst. during the final phase of rehabilitation. It's important that you can have this flexibility, and that you can increase the period now, together up to one year. I am pleased with what is now coming as a natural adjustment of travel allowances for students in the context of sickness and rehabilitation, that there will be equality between students and employees who are entitled to rehabilitation or travel allowances to work. When it comes to adjusting the criteria for care allowance for children's hospital stays and after illness at home, I cannot entirely share the arguments that government parties come up with. I think it is right that this is not conditional on how many days the child has been in an institution. These include: The representative, Ballo, was involved in today's medical technology, so that a person can be treated during a day at the institution and, nevertheless, have had such serious treatment as to be nurturing at home for more than seven days. Then I believe that what the majority here says, that you don't attach any condition to the duration of your residence, is right. With regard to other things in this collective proposition, I think it is good to approach today's family pattern with the care allowance scheme for children's disease. It implies that cohabitants in an established partnership, including through partnerships, as well as foster parents, should be entitled to care allowance for cohabitation under illness with children to whom they themselves are not biological parents. Of the other things in this law, I would like to clarify this with sick pay in connection with maternity-related absences. It is an improvement that allows you to get sick pay from pregnancy-related pangs and that it has a retroactive effect of up to three months. I think that will make it easier both for those who have a sick leave in connection with pregnancy, and also for the employer who can get this covered when you are aware of the reason for the absence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e391	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 801]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e407	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e414	The issue we now have to deal with is a consequence of an agreement concluded between the government parties and the Progress Party in the context of the 2003 state budget. In this respect, the Government Parties and the Advance Party concluded an agreement on a three-year escalation plan, so that the basic pension would ultimately amount to 85 pst. of the basic amount for each of the spouses or cohabiting pensioners. It is a unanimous committee that agrees that the basic pension should now be increased to reach 80 pst. of the basic amount from 1 May 2003. The other parties, who were not in the budget agreement, also show that in their comments on budget revenue. S. No 11 for 2002-2003 supported such an increase in the basic pension. For the Advancement Party, this is a joyous day. Now we're starting to escalate the basic pension and slow down the injustice that's been shared by married and cohabiting pensioners. We are pleased that this matter is now finally being addressed, and that we can take the first decision to step up the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners. Since the early 1980s, the Progress Party has almost every year proposed a fairer basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners. It is therefore important for the Progress Party that this matter now finally seems to be being clarified, even if, in the opinion of the Progress Party, one does not go far enough. The point of progress is of the clear opinion that both married and cohabiting pensioners should have their own full basic pension. That is the long-term objective of the Progress Party. It has been claimed that because you are married or cohabiting, some even have economies of scale, and that on this basis you should have a curtailment of the basic pension. This is not the consensus of the Progress Party and will therefore continue to work towards having one's own full basic pension in the future. I would like to congratulate the country's married and cohabiting pensioners on the fact that we have at least started today, and then we will see what the future will bring. We're going to hope that this is just the beginning, and that eventually you're left with each of your full basic pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e431	In Ot.prp. No 59 supports the Government's proposal to increase the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners from 75 pst. to 80 pst. of the basic amount. The Christian People's Party has, over a number of years, put forward proposals in this Chamber to raise the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners. This proposal was important to put in place a system that does not discriminate against married pensioners. Today’s proposal is the result of an agreement with the Progress Party during the examination of the 2003 State budget. The agreement implies that the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners is escalated to 1,7 G by 2005. For the Christian People's Party, this is a joyful and long-lasting promise. The consequences of the Government’s proposal will be a clear improvement in the economic situation of many pensioners. This is in addition to the increase following the debate on the social security guidelines last week. Following this legislative amendment, a pensioner’s partner couple will receive an increase in the year of between NOK 5000 and NOK 6000 after the basic amount of the day. From the Christian People's Party's point of view, there is now a step in the direction of equalizing married couples and single couples. It is also important to stress that everyone is now on the right track to have the opportunity to earn the basic amount independently. A decisive argument for this increase is to prevent pensioners from moving away from each other or withdrawing separation because spending age together is not purely economic. Some people are also likely to avoid giving their country a form of life in order to avoid reducing their pensions. It is thus a good family policy step to ensure that pensioners too endure life together and benefit from the clear benefits that the community brings. This amendment also contributes to the social development of pensioners elsewhere. Men and women have become more equal, and more and more women participate either in full-time or in part-time employment. Therefore, an increase in the pension for married and cohabiting spouses will also be a recognition of the female work effort, whether it has been practiced in the home or outside the four walls of the home. Although you can get the impression that the opposite is happening, studies show that two-person households can share many of the lonely expenses alone. This combined with today's change in law will give married pensioners a long-term and well-deserved boost. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that today we can adopt a law that provides increased basic pensions for married and cohabiting pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e450	I'll be brief. I am also pleased that you will receive an increased basic pension for pensioners and pensioners. It is a principle of equality and justice that is at least to a certain extent fulfilled by this. And I would like to say that more than the rapporteur's party has talked about this earlier. So a little bit of paint in the beggar. Because when we do this, we also have to look a little bit at the one-parent families and their living costs. It is clear that one has to follow developments closely in relation to the kind of living costs of a household and the income ratios they have. It has been said that this adjustment should take account of it. Now, when we give an increased basic pension for couples, we have to look at the living costs and income ratio of this group at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e459	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 803]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e467	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e475	In the course of the debate, five proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Asmund Kristoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 3 and 4, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 5, from John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party The President will first refer to the proposals. 2-5. Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government, in cooperation with the industry, to take the initiative of setting up a main industry organisation.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to include acupunctures and homeopaths in the investigation to be made for osteopathy and naprapathy.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider granting authorisation to acupuncture officers under Section 48 of the Health Personnel Act, provided that the acupuncture student has a general education at acupuncture level and is properly trained in acupuncture.’ Proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider allowing reimbursement for acupuncture as an independent speciality regardless of whether the acupuncturist has an independent health profession or not.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e522	The President will first vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Act on Alternative Treatment of Diseases, etc. the term ‘alternative treatment’ is replaced by the term ‘additional and alternative treatment’ in all paragraphs of the Act where the term ‘alternative treatment’ has been used.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e566	The President will then vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, to a sixth paragraph of Section 2. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Act on Alternative Treatment of Diseases, etc. the following provisions shall be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e597	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «§ 3 Registration systemThe Ministry provides for a voluntary register system for health professionals and others exercising alternative treatment. The same shall apply to private educational institutions in the alternative treatment sector. Among these, provision may be made for:1. registration fee and2. the annual fee for the maintenance of the registration.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e745	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e755	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e765	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e772	During the debate, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, put forward a proposal that was included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e787	Before we move on, the President will propose the following voting method: the vote is replaced by an alternative between the vote and the entire motion by the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, then by the paragraphs in the vote that the same parties oppose, and finally over the rest of the vote. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e1664	The proposal from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party reads: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 In the table of contents in Chapter 12, the eighth indent is replaced by the following:– the composition and calculation of time-limited disability benefit and disability benefit are set out in Sections 12 to 13 of the table of contents in Chapter 12, the tenth indent is replaced by the following: – the time-limited disability benefit and the disability benefit is calculated in Sections 12 to 15. In the second and fourth paragraphs, the term ‘unemployment benefit’ is replaced by the term ‘unemployment benefit’ is replaced by the term ‘unemployment benefit’ and the term ‘unemployment benefit’ is replaced by the term ‘unemployment benefit’, the term ‘unemployment benefit’ is replaced by the term ‘unemployment benefit’ and the term ‘unemployment benefit’ is replaced by the term ‘unemployment benefit’, the term ‘unemployment benefit’ is replaced by the term ‘unemployment benefit’ and the term ‘unemployment benefit’ is added to the provisions in Sections 3 to ‘unemployment benefit’ or ‘unemployment benefit benefit’ is added to those in Sections 3 to ‘unemployment benefit’. the third subparagraph of Article 6 to 81 shall be replaced by the following: any taxable person other than those referred to in the first and second subparagraphs who has received a preliminary zero, fixed-term unpaid pay or invalidity pension under the Law on Social Security or invalidity benefit under other laws shall receive a special deduction equal to half of the monthly deduction under the second subparagraph for each month of such benefit.’ [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e1802	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e1812	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e1823	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e1830	During the debate, Beate Heieren Hundhammer, on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, put forward a proposal that was included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e2011	There is an aberrant proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 13 December 2002 86 amending Law No 28 February 1997 19 on population protection is amended as follows:§ 9-10, first paragraph, is replaced by the following:To a member who has taken care of children under 12 years of age who are or have been admitted to a health institution, care is provided at the earliest from the eighth day of the hospitalisation. It is a condition that the child has been admitted for at least three days. After the discharge, there is a condition for care allowance that the child needs continuous supervision and care from one of the parents. Other than the child’s parents may also receive a care allowance if this is necessary for the child’s sake. It is a condition that no care allowance is provided according to § 9-11. This provision does not apply to both parents at the same time.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e2061	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e2071	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e2133	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e2143	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-05-lower-2.ana.ud2239e2154	There is no record.
