ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e257	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e266	‘Norway digital’ is a geographical infrastructure that includes basic spatial data on our marine and rural areas as well as related thematic spatial data on land, environment, natural resources, etc. The availability of this type of infrastructure is important for society as such, for the individual, for our business and for the public sector. For business there are significant opportunities for value creation in developing services on the basis of geographic information. In addition, this type of information is important for the efficiency and quality of the public sector. In this Communication, the Government has set out visions for the development of ‘Norway digitally’ and how this will actually be implemented in the economic reality in which we live. The majority has stated in previous decisions that priority should be given to the deployment of electronic navigational charts, and the Government reaffirms this in the notification. The aim is that during 2006 we will have a satisfactory coverage of authorised electronic navigational charts for all important navigational leaders along the Norwegian coast. An overall committee is behind this priority. This also means that the delivery of authorised sea charts through PRIMAR Stavanger is to continue due to international conventions and agreements, and that the Maritime Cartwork is thus not affected by the changes proposed in relation to the other State Cartwork. Following the implementation of electronic navigational charts, the focus will be on the work on property registration and the establishment of a common land-based map database. The role of the national professional body and guidance system for users and spatial data providers of the State’s mapping system shall remain central. Norway is well advanced in technology, and the Committee endorses the Government's ambition to lead Norway in the use of new technologies. The Government proposes to distinguish the part of the activities of the State Maps that are competitive activities. These are activities such as the production of maps and boating maps and consulting services. A distinction between management and competitive activities will make the administrative role more clear, and we avoid the state’s mapping works operating in competition with private businesses. We focus the resources of the State's government's mapping on what should be public administration and avoid undesirable distortions of competition in relation to private activities. This results in more efficient and forward-looking map production. It is envisaged to sell the competitive part of the activity to the highest bidder, and the majority of the Committee agrees that this should be done by selling the activity together as a preference. The value of these elements is very much in the competence of those currently working in the market division of the Cartwork. This competence is mainly localised in Ringerijk, and it should therefore be well placed to enable this environment of competence to develop more dynamically under private actors than under the constraints of state ownership. The use of new technologies enables efficiency to be improved internally in the Cartwork. Increased production requirements in combination with reduced budgets suggest that the State’s mapping works must have freedom and space for action in order to conduct internal restructurings. The government has therefore proposed that the number of county agencies should be reduced. The majority of the Committee endorses this, but emphasises that the number, as well as the County Map Offices to make changes, must be an assessment of the State Mapper itself, based on the criteria set out in this Communication, namely that this should be done on the basis of: the number of municipalities linked to each officegeographical size and the distance competence needs in each region and the quality of today’s service provision; During the examination of this matter, the Committee has had enquiries from a number of municipalities and counties which fear this change and a reduction in the existing offer. The state's mapping works have been involved in conversion processes in several ways, and I have confidence in both their competence and their ability to convert on this issue as well. The notification shows ambitions on behalf of digital Norway, and no one should or should close their eyes in order to exploit the opportunities offered by new technologies in order to sharpen the Staten Kartsverk and at the same time deliver the expected results. Finally, as rapporteur for this matter, I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e305	The Workers' Party believes that maps are a basic infrastructure which should be a state responsibility. That is why we believe that the state agency must be maintained and strengthened. The transition to digital maps has resulted in a high level of resource demand. But at the same time, digital map access will make it safer both at sea and at sea, making it simpler and more efficient in many areas. Ensuring that Norway has correct digital spatial data is also a good industrial policy, as it provides a basis for the development of new technologies and services. There are already a number of private companies in Norway that use spatial data as a basis for services and products, including: in the field of offshore mapping, satellite image processing and software development to mention something. It is also the case that a large part of the allocation to the Staten Kartsverk goes to the purchase of services from different types of competence companies, so cut in the allocation to the Kartsverk also affects private jobs. On this basis, we in the Workers' Party hoped that this map message could provide the Stortinget with a basis for a forward-looking debate on how to ensure a good map basis in Norway. But unfortunately, the government has provided a message that not only adds to a still low bet, it also appears to be very little reworked, which has been confirmed by the answers we have received to questions that have been asked by the committee during the examination. SV has proposed that the message be sent back. We could join in if we'd had a majority with the Progress Party. But we haven't. As a result, it was discussed in the committee, and we have therefore promoted our proposals in the hope of being implemented. Unfortunately, the parties of government and the party of progress stand together. Not a comma separates them in the configuration. And given the history it's in this magnification period of the Cartwork, it's actually most surprising that the Advance Party has laid down on the line they have. As we remember, in the autumn of 2001, 38 million were cut. kr to Kartverket. Most of the 38 million. kr disappeared after there had been rounds here in Stortinget with the Progress Party, where the Progress Party did not agree with the Government but supported the budget subsidiaryly. And I remember that the representative of Korsberg was pretty furious when we suggested that the Progress Party had supported the cut of $38 million. kr when the financial committee's position was discussed in Stortinget. Among other things, he said: in the budget debate: ‘For the Advancement Party, cutting as much as this is about is quite unimaginable, because it will cause major problems for the Cartwork.’ Now that's exactly what they had done. But we in the opposition, the Labour Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Center Party, came together, and we have had a good cooperation on the Cartwork. We put a pressure that resulted in 20 million. more in the revised budget for 2002. We decided last autumn that the government could not merge the county card offices until the Storting had dealt with this message. But then all of a sudden it was the end of the commitment of the Progress Party. In this setting, the Progress Party has given the Government full support. And in the revised national budget, which is to be examined on Friday, the Progress Party places itself at the same level of appropriations as in December 2001 was completely unimaginable. Thus, the Advance Party gives the Government, among other things. support for the closure of County Map Offices. The Labour Party is opposed to the proposal to close the County Map Office, among other things. based on their central role in the coordination of monitoring and close contact with the municipalities. We also find it strange that the majority is in favour of this so soon after Stortinget dealt with the clearing of things and decided that the Cartwork would take over the clearing of things, and that the Cartwork would establish a service for reception and control in each state. The Labour Party also opposes the privatisation provided by the Government in respect of the market division. We believe it is necessary to have a clearer distinction than today, but it must be possible to find a model within the framework of public ownership, among other things. so that revenue from the market division can benefit from the State Maps. Privatisation, as proposed by the Government, creates considerable uncertainty for the workplaces in the State Maps, among others. Those who are in the Ring Kingdom today. And finally, a new law on property registration, as the message mentions, has many principal aspects. I have to say that it is very worrying that the Government should have the Storting to approve a law in advance after mentioning it in a section of a notice. We believe that the Stortinget should decide on it only when there is a legislative proposal for consideration in Stortinget. Unfortunately, the Progress Party also gives its support here to the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e329	Let me start by saying that I am pleased that we have finally received this message for processing, because there has been a wish and a demand from the Progress Party for such a message to outsource the further course for maps, ‘Norway digitally’ and the State cart. It's a good message that's been presented, and it's a message that cancels out the future. That's exactly what we in the Progress Party have been busy with, getting a message to know about the resources that we've fought for on the Cartwork side, have been used correctly. Now you do some grips to meet the future, and I think that's very good. I am pleased that a unanimous committee has chosen to give the highest priority to maritime surveillance in the coming years, which is very important in relation to our long-range coast and the necessary safety related to shipping. Following the completion of this initiative, the focus will be on the work on modern property registration and the creation of a common land-based map database. In order to meet the future challenges, it is important that the continuation of ‘Norway digital’ on the land side is based on co-financing between state, municipality and other major users, and that the funding base is also extended by attracting more user groups. One of the things that we're getting to know now is the role of the State's mapping system in relation to the private mapping industry. The state’s mapping works are currently engaged in both monopolistic production involving national mapping series and national databases, and competitive activities involving tour maps, boatport maps and consultancy services. It is therefore positive that the Government will finally have a clear borderline between management and competitive activities, so that in the future the State’s mapping works will not compete with the private mapping industry. That's something we in the Progress Party have pointed out many times as a problem. A clear demarcation will also make the administrative role of the State Mapping Agency clearer. We therefore support the fact that the competitive tasks carried out by the Staten Kartsverk today are put out for sale. This activity is mainly organised in the market division of the Cartel and is based on the competence of the Cartel. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the strong professional community established in Ringerijk, which itself represents a potential for value. The competence of employees is an important element in the value of the competitive part. I would like to stress that the employees themselves, in line with other actors, must have the opportunity to position themselves in a buyer's position alone or with other actors. In order to make maximum use of the resources of the State Maps, which we in the Progress Party, possibly unlike other batches, are busy, more resources need to be released for the production of data and the purchase of services. I agree that this should be done by further reducing the number of annual works, such as: implies a reduction in the number of county offices. I would like to stress here the importance of being able to carry this out in a way that ensures that the administrative tasks are properly carried out. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and thank the rapporteur for an excellent job.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e346	Here in Stortingen it is that the government is dependent on support from SV to achieve a good environmental policy. On several occasions, the right-wing council Børge Brende has reaped praise from SV, among others. in favour of a more offensive climate policy. The enthusiasm in their own rows may not have always been the same. But when I opened this big message, I couldn't help but think that the Council of State now needed to demonstrate that he was still – after all – a good Right-Man. This is not a document that draws up the visions of the future ‘Norway digital’, not a message to improve the mapping or make spatial data more accessible to users. No, this is a message to defend the former brutal cuts in the government's budget provided by the Government and the Progress Party, and a notice for so-called sharpening and privatisation. State Council Fire will bring down at least six of the county-cartel offices. Which he hasn't decided yet. Then it may not be so strange that the department is unable to identify the savings these closures will bring. And really shutting down and selling the Cartwork's market division will be $15 million. kr in revenue, as incorporated in the revised national budget? The department's calculation base is not very convincing. In addition, there is a widespread misunderstanding among the majority that privatisation will provide a more dynamic organisation. The problem of the map is underfinancing, and neither privatisation nor closure of the County Map Offices will provide us with a better map. On the contrary, jobs are being demolished, and national responsibility for important societal tasks is being weakened. In sum, the many questions raised by the Committee have confirmed the unanimous assessment of the Hearing Officers that this is a poorly reworked communication with great weaknesses and uncertainties related to the numbering material. Hunger feeding and cutting are followed up by privatisation and so-called sharpness, not to improve the mapping, but to privatise for the privatisation itself. The SV’s conclusion is that the message must be sent back to the Government so that we can get a more detailed proposal on the development of ‘Norway digital’ for treatment. In addition, SV has committed a total of 31 million in the revised national budget. kr. to strengthen the Map. I would therefore like to end by including the SV's proposal in the vote on the return of the message, and at the same time notifying that if this proposal, against assumption, were to be defeated, we will provide subsidiary support for the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e359	The representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e362	No one in this room can disagree with the fact that maps, modern digital maps, are a necessary tool for development in key societal areas. Norway was at an early stage in implementing new map technologies. As managers of large areas both at sea and at land, we are totally dependent on the fact that efforts in this field are not weakened. If Norway needs further development and increased value creation. In fact, good digital maps are an important basis for facilitating work and speeding up the process. The centre party had expectations for St.meld. No 30, ‘Norway digital’ – a common foundation for value creation. The centre party had expectations that the message would contain visions that would draw up some main lines for how to develop a good mapping as a basic infrastructure across the country. Unfortunately, the answer this message gives is that the public should take less responsibility for the map activity in the future. It is added to save money within mapping, in line with what we have seen in other fields, such as transportation, mail and telecommunications. Tasks are left to private to the extent that they are commercially interesting. Of course, there are areas in the country that have a commercial market where part of the tasks involved can be solved. But the conversion will create particular problems for smaller municipalities where such opportunities do not exist and where there are also large areas. It is difficult to find anything in the Storing message that suggests that these municipalities get some kind of lift and progress on the map page. The County Map Offices, which are now to be heavily slendered or laid down, are the extended arm of the Cartwork out in Kommune-Norway. They assist and assist municipalities in establishing and deploying spatial data infrastructure. Now, when the state wants to save money, as the Government and the Advance Party add up, it will result in costs being imposed on us users through increased fees. For municipalities, there will be increased expenditure when they are going out and buying services that the country has previously provided free of charge. Another new cost is to be pushed into an already-pressed local economy. Once again, we see that the Government, in conjunction with the Progress Party, has faith that private people should solve important societal tasks for which the big community should have been responsible. As I have mentioned earlier, the Centre Party believes that the result will be increased differences between areas and municipalities. It is mainly the district municipalities that will now experience a delay in the initial digital mapping process. It is also these municipalities that will have the biggest problems recruiting and paying their own map staff. If the law on property registration is amended as stated in the Storing Communication, this will enhance the impoverishment of the mapping competence of municipalities. Local authorities will have difficulty in ensuring the quality of their other spatial data management if property registration is no longer part of the municipality's work. The Storting message ‘Norway digital’ created expectations. The answer given by the message is a disappointment. It all bears the mark of an introduction to public savings and privatisation rather than offensive investment. The government states that it will require more actors than today to contribute to co-financing, so that land-use planning can be kept up without further funding. In the last two years, the Government has reduced the amount of funding allocated to the Cartel by approx. Forty million. kr. As a result, land-use monitoring has been affected when we know that progress is given priority to maritime monitoring. The centre is strongly opposed to putting the county card offices in the further conversion of the Mapping. A level allocation of what was before the cut will be a good social investment to achieve the goal of a ‘Norway digital’ faster than it is now scheduled. We also do not want to sell the competitive part of the business, but to keep it in state ownership in Ring Kingdom. I'm taking up the proposals from the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e390	The representative Hans Seierstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e393	The coastal party is satisfied that the progress of the digital navigational charts is on track. This is essential for maritime safety. We have noticed that international agreements and conventions bind the authorisation and surrender of charts to the State PRIMAR in Stavanger, and that the business structure based on maps and spatial data to which the Government will stimulate, is therefore linked to land maps and surveying, and that the Government will continue this process without the consequences being sufficiently investigated. Although the Coastal Party agrees with the Government that growth in private business should be stimulated, we believe that this should not be done to an extent that detracts from the public’s necessary competences. The coastal party will give its verbal support to minority comments and vote in favour of minority proposals. The government wants to drop the state-of-the-art office. The Coastal Party will only recall that Norwegian states have a geographical extent greater than many European countries, and that several of these counties are important tourist areas where the need for good maps is high and the potential for business activity is similar. The Coastal Party believes that the best way to obtain private business related to this will be to ensure good public competences that can serve business and be active partners. Public competences must not be weakened, thereby reducing the possibility of industrial development. From our members across the country, we are getting more and more questions as to why this government is sending proposals to the hearing, but then chooses not to listen to what people affected by the proposals say. Now it is the second time in a few days that the government is demonstrating its arrogance with the hearing bodies. On Monday, Fisheries Norway was overrun, against all professional advice and without any impact assessment. Today, public Norway is being rolled down, against professional advice and without the matter being properly resolved. I will not take up the Storting's time to repeat what previous speakers have said, but I need to mark where the Coastal Party stands in this matter, and therefore I am doing it right now. In its time, it was used against the Workers' Party that they had become too arrogant – they had to leave the government offices. We who have never been in those offices, and who also have no ambitions to enter there in the near future, we wonder if the arrogance hangs in the walls, for we have never had a government that is more arrogant than the one we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e404	I am pleased that the majority of the Committee has endorsed the proposals made by the Government in St.meld. No 30 for 2002-2003, ‘Norway digital’ — a common foundation for value creation. The government is also following up the Storting's previous decision that, by the end of 2006, we will have electronic charts ready for our most important coastlines. We have to remember that a few years ago we hadn't gotten far in relation to this electronic charting, and now we're among the leaders in the world. This is actually very much about safety at sea. It's about getting good sailors, so rust caves don't go up in our rocks. In fact, I am proud both of the job that the Swedish Cartel Agency has done and of the good cooperation we have had with the Stortinget in terms of getting it to be a leading nation related to maritime mapping. We also have to take that with us. In a situation where everyone's talking about small resources, there's actually quite a lot of resources we're now using on this survey. We're going to be world leaders. And then we'd like to have a discussion with respect to the piece of land. There is no doubt that, at the moment of the extreme national commitment to electronic maritime navigation, which increases safety at sea, funds will also be available that can be used in relation to land-use monitoring and digitisation there. At least that's what the government adds up to. It is true, as several speakers have also pointed out, that the use of maps and spatial data in society is increasing, and more and more people are becoming aware that they can benefit from it as a tool in their activities. It is a clear public task to establish a basic infrastructure of spatial information for use in society. At the same time, it is necessary to dimension this effort so that the limit of what is a public responsibility is not directed towards what the private sector might contribute. There has also been a review of the part of the State’s mapping network that is in competition with private operators. Both Statskonsult and McKinsey have actually recommended that this be disposed of. The state’s mapping works are and will become a central public institution for basic information, and should initially not compete with private actors, and are increasingly able to actually purchase from many important engineering companies, many private companies, which are using this at the bottom to compete for other missions, both nationally and internationally. The fact that the Stortinget now, through the majority we have received in the Committee – a cooperation between the government parties and the Progress Party – facilitates streamlined mapping and increased efforts to purchase services and competition for services, so that we can get more money back, I appreciate it very much. I would like to say here that the Progress Party has acted very neatly in this process, and also in relation to the financial framework laid by the Stortinget in connection with the budget of the year. As far as I remember, it was only the SV of the big parties that went against the economic basis that the Government provided for the Cartwork this year. I am thinking here of several parties that have to deal with the financial framework of the current year in terms of the Cartwork, and then an adjustment has to be made in relation to the operation of the Cartwork. What we have chosen is a reduction in the number of county offices – from 18 to 12 – which will result in a reduction in the number of annual jobs up to 50, as well as the loss of rent and other administrative costs in six offices. Once the measures have been implemented, it must be possible to estimate an annual savings of 30 million. kr, which may be converted into a service purchase. That was also the point of several representatives. These 30 million. We can then provide the land-use mapping with it. When the technical recommendations are that, despite everything within these tight frameworks, such an organisation must be given priority in order to get more maps for the money again, I do not have any problems getting to Stortinget and proposing this. But, as I said at the outset, when, by the end of 2006, we have completed this difficult national promise in relation to the chart side, we shall, in addition to what we have achieved so far on the map side, extend further, and then there will also be no financial resources available for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e420	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e423	When it came to the last council, I didn't quite understand what he meant. I just want to remind you that the Labour Party, within a responsible framework of the revised national budget, has a total of 31 million. kr more to the Cartwork than the Government has, which would have prevented the closure of the County Map Office and would not have had to share the privatization of the market division, which is located in Ringerijk. I could use this line to criticize the message at point by point, because here it is very much critical. But in my one minute, I'm going to challenge the Council of State in an area that I hope he can give a positive response, and it's about non-governmental organisations and teams. I find it strange that the message does not at all mention the importance of free access to map data for voluntary organisations and teams to participate in decision-making processes, for example. as regards the issues of outdoor life and the protection of important natural areas of the Municipality of Norway. Will the Council of State address this issue at the level of the Planning Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e430	It is clear that the proposals that the Plan Law Committee has now made will be sent to the public hearing for the autumn, and we will also review the proposals that the sample has made. With regard to the financial framework to which the Cartwork has to deal, I have recorded that for the current year's budget, the Workers' Party had no other financial framework than that provided by the Government. That's what I've had to deal with and make proposals for the Storting relative to. I record that a different line has been chosen in the revised national budget. But for six months now, I have had to adapt the State's mapping to the financial framework that Stortinget has given me, and then this measure is the most appropriate way to adapt to a tighter economic framework without going beyond the mapping.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e437	I would like to be allowed to challenge the Council of State as to the background of his privatisation. Is the privatisation of the market division a privatisation for the privatisation itself, or does the Council have some good reason why it is so important to split up an existing professional environment and establish a structure that does not mean that spatial data is made more accessible to users and with an already recorded revenue from the sale that nobody knows can be realised? In addition, I would like to know if the Council of State has now been given a little more thought as to which county agency he wants to close down. Is it going to be one in Trondelag, one in Rogaland or one in Agder County? Or rather, what kind of criteria will be used for the selection of which County Map Office to be closed? At least the Council of States must have considered the criteria to be used for the selection of closures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e444	The fact that the main body of the State, in relation to maps, is not to compete with private operators is a sound principle. That's what both Statskonsult and McKinsey have stated in the investigation. That is the professional basis, and they have concluded that mixing management and business is not a good thing. If the State is to carry out competitive tasks, it must do so within the framework of a separate company. So there was a question of whether I have made some thoughts relating to these map offices and which are to be closed down. I suggest that some card offices be closed down on a professional basis, because it will eventually result in savings in the $10 million class. This can be used, as I said instead, for the purchase of services, so that a bet can be made on the map side. When it comes to thoughts about which county card office is to be closed, I have always said that I want to deal with the proposal of the Cartwork here. They will propose it on a professional basis, and there will be no political discussion in Stortingen about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e453	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e458	The state’s mapping works are both the largest and most important actors in the construction of ‘Norway digital’ and have a leading role in the use of modern technologies in spatial data. There is an enterprise with a high level of competence in these areas, which, through the Government’s proposals for sharpening, will meet demands for a high level of competence in new areas. In other words, it is an exciting company with great potential for development, and a company that can provide budding in the form of new enterprises based on producing goods and services with a background in the Cartel’s competence. Its head office is located in Ringerijk. The map is an enterprise that engages and has a significant impact on the community. It does so both by being a large employer and because it is attractive for any community to have an enterprise that holds the highest competence in the country within its field of competence. That's why St. Meld has. No 30 created an engagement locally. Attention has been focused both on the future of the Mapping Facility in general and on the sale of the competitive activities of market divisions in particular. The fact that this has given rise to so much attention is also linked to the decision to lay down 500 state jobs in the district by relocating the activity of three military camps, 500 jobs which, combined with ring-effects, can mean a loss of between 1000 and 1500 jobs. Against this background, it is not strange that the organisation of the Cartwork and the sale of the competitive part of the market division arouse interest and debate. It is not given to know at the moment when the part of the market department that is being sold will end up. I'm not hiding what I hope. Therefore, I am pleased that the majority's comments state that the sale should preferably be made collectively. This is important in order to avoid fragmentation of the professional environment. Furthermore, the majority have placed emphasis on the specific competence of the Mapping Agency and that the strong professional environment established in the Ring Kingdom represents in itself a potential for value. The competence of employees will be an important part of interested buyers. For those who fear that this sale will mean a furoring of the trade union environment and the loss of jobs in the district, I think this on the contrary is a unique opportunity for the ring-fence society to have more jobs. The market division currently has strong restrictions on its role as a market player – a private enterprise will not have these restrictions. It can provide the basis for highly exciting jobs with a high level of competence, great opportunities for development, value creation and more jobs than is the case today. No one today knows where these jobs will end, but with the local expertise and with the geographical proximity of the State's mapping works, there is no reason that this region should not be very attractive to private operators. That's why it's only for the whole community to enjoy future friars!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e475	Surprisingly, the Government will not privatize, now also the Mapping Agency. They have a political platform where privatisation is both an objective and an instrument. Nor is it surprising that the Christian People's Party feels comfortable with this development in which more and more are privatized. But locally, the situation is quite different. It is claimed that the Government and the Christian People's Party are not responsive to the local protests, and in the Leave of the Ring Kingdom it says: «... The Ringerijk Christian People's Party is dismayed at the mother party's support for the privatisation of the market division of the Cartel. A position they claim to be totally destructive to the work of the local team’, which is also ‘very negative for the whole of our local labour market’. The progress party locally in Ringerijk is equally despondent and frustrated when, in an opinion, they say no to further furying of state jobs in the Ringerik region. The mapping is the locomotive in the development of ‘Norway digital’. The mapping is a major and important job in Ringerijk and a key activity in the further development of the region. The Ringerix region, including Jevnaker, has been heavily affected by the loss of many State jobs in the last few years by the closure of three bogs in the Defence. With this privatisation, we are now at risk of the unique environment of competence at the State Maps. The relocation of state jobs has recently been decided by the Storting, but the credibility of the Government's work is weakened, when at the same time it will split up stations such as the Karket, which in addition prove to have an effective operation. Adequate economic frameworks are also necessary to keep the unique national mapping environment alive. It is important for Norway and very important for Ring Kingdom. Also there the government has failed. The working party doesn't see any sense in shutting down the county card office either. They have a very central role in the coordination of monitoring, with the close contact they have with the municipalities, and that is important. All in all, another bad day for the Ringeriks region. It is not a forward-looking policy that we are actively going to shut down activities in the municipalities that are close to Oslo, but at any rate too far for enough people to care about, because at some point it will have consequences. The Privatisation Russian has a backside that more and more dislikes. I just hope it won't be too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e497	The debate on the operation of the state's maps in time is the time limit here today. So I want to use my measured minutes to give some idea of what this has to say for the Ringerix region. That the knowledge base of the Cartwork is great, there is no doubt about it. But if one manages to keep him up after the decisions that will be taken here today, it is to be seen. Nevertheless, I will dwell more on how hard this region is in relation to job losses in recent years. As we have said before, all military activity has been put to rest. Direct and indirect represent 1 000–1,500 jobs. Then there were restrictions on over 100 industrial workplaces at Follum and now the downfall of the Cartwork. In addition, if the decision on corridor selection via Åsa is established, there will also be no Ringeriksbahn. My claim is that this region is too close to Oslo to focus properly on the daily map of the challenges he has. He's close, but still too distant. The puncture shall be added to Honey Foetal. This gives some jobs for a period of time, but when the registration is made, it will be very few. Frustration is great, uncertain about future things the same. I hope the Council of State can give some indication of the opposite. It needs the workers, and it needs the ring-fence society. Government of the Council of State Brende has approved County Plans for Buskerud at kgl. Resolution of March 2002. This part of the county should be the unloading area of the Oslo region. The state has made some changes to measures aimed at reducing job losses, and the Busherud counties have committed between two and three million. kr. But now, in the middle of the most difficult period for the region, this show comes about the separation and release of the Cartwork. The result will be downstaffing. One can safely say that the privatisation provider is great in this government. The old saying of giving with one hand and taking with the other is absolutely valid in this matter. I'm also not sure if the nation of Norway has started this experiment. Not least Ringerijk will be sitting again as the losing party. I'm sorry. It was this the least needed now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e510	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 2, 3 and 4 are dealt with as a whole – and considered adopted. [[See page 3434]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e550	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e557	The Committee hopes to have these three Document Nos. The 8-proposals were dealt with fairly quickly, and I have now taken the floor as rapporteur on Document No. 8:84 and Document No 8:86. As regards Document No: 8:84 on helping to establish and contribute to the financing of a competence and culture centre for the wild beast axis of the Tanavas trek during this magnificence period, I am pleased that a broad majority of the committee, among others. underlines the international importance of the Tanavas Treaty for Atlantic wild species and for Sami culture. The majority are pleased with the positive attitude of the Centre as indicated by the Environment Ministry's letter of reply. The majority do not conclude in this case. It's too early for that. What we are saying, however, is that it is important that the Ministry of the Environment now continues to work on the matter. I believe that this is a very positive treatment of this case, which Sometinget and Tana Municipality have been involved in, and which is mentioned in Document No. The 8th proposal. I note that SV has nevertheless promoted the proposal in the vote. I would recommend to SV to draw the proposal here in the hall. It would be a shame if it were downhearted. The same applies to the proposal made by SV in Innst. S. No 258 on the establishment of a national centre for genetic ecology in Tromsø. The statement is accompanied by one of the letters of reply from the Minister for the Environment, but not letter No. 2nd@item: inlistbox In retrospect, it might also have been said here, because in this letter dated 10 June this year, the Ministry of the Environment agrees that a national centre for genetic ecology is not necessarily the same as being designated as a centre for excellent research. The Committee also agrees that the Research Council is the appropriate body to advise on the establishment of Genome as a national centre for genetic ecology. A minority, the Workers' Party and SV, therefore ask the Government to come back to the 2004 government budget with an assessment of the need to establish a national centre of excellence in genetics. However, I hope that the government parties in this round are not involved in this, I do not mean that it is excluded that the government can assess the question. I hope the Government will consider doing so, given the need we have to build up competence in this area. Therefore, as I said, I would recommend to SV to withdraw its proposal, so that it is not put to the vote. That would be a shame in case. With these comments, I recommend to the Committee that the proposals be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e580	I initially thought I was the case rapporteur for Document No. 8:84 and Document No 8:62, but it looks like I've been robbed of my case chairmanship in the Chamber here. I'm just going to take note of that, but I don't know if I like it. We might get a statement later about what happened in the process. I am at least concerned with what has been the position of the committee, and it is clear that I am the case rapporteur for the two cases. So to Document No. 8:84, proposals by Hallgeir H. Langeland and Kirsti Saxi to contribute to the establishment and funding of the centre of expertise and culture for the wilderness axis of the Tanava region during this major period. The centre of the proposal is a large project with plans for many activities. It is also a project that affects the responsibilities of several departments. In the view of the majority of the committees, it is too early to decide on this project, for example: since no financing plan has been drawn up. If the proposers were aware that the financing plan had not been drawn up, I find it strange that this Document No. The 8 proposal has been promoted – before an overview of how the financial costs have been allocated. It is therefore natural that this project, like other and similar salmon projects, should be assessed in the context of the State budget. Therefore, a large majority of the Committee, all except SV, which has its own proposal, recommends that Document No. 8:84 shall be annexed to the minutes. It was also Synnøve Konglevoll in his post as case rapporteur – if she were, then, I am still uncertain about that. So to Document No. 8:62, from the towering representatives of Øystein Djupedal, Hallgeir H. Langeland and Heidi Grande Røys, to strengthen and expand the national park administration. Since this matter was delivered on the Energy and Environment Committee, the revised national budget has also been released, and there is the use of land, the management of national parks and so on. have been duly mentioned. I would refer to the comments and proposals of the respective parties in this way. I would also like to refer to the letter from the Minister for the Environment of 11 April this year, which shows that appropriations for this type of purpose will be assessed in the usual way in the context of the annual government budget, which is agreed by a unanimous committee. There is a minority proposal from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, which I assume the minority is promoting and explaining – if they do not follow the call to withdraw the proposal, on which the representative, Mr Konglevoll, was involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e595	The President shall not contribute to the great confusion as to who is the President of the case for what, but the President has now been informed that the representative of Korsberg is the Advocate General for Case No. 2 and 3 and Mr Konglevoll, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Left/Nordic That is what the document says, and we are holding on to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e598	In this debate, we are dealing with three Document Nos. Eight proposals, which makes the posts quite summarizing. As regards Document No: 8:62, on the national park management, it is proposed that the Government return at the latest to the 2004 budget with proposals for strengthening the operation and management of national parks. There is agreement in this room that it is important to take care of the areas allocated to the national park. Once we have established such national parks, we must ensure that the intentions can be fulfilled in a good way. The Minister for the Environment, in reply to questions from the Committee, has shown that the Storting has also previously asked the Government to come back with an inquiry into ‘increased tourist use and value creation of our mountain area’. In this context, Stortinget will have a good opportunity to discuss how national parks and other large mountain areas should be managed. The question of increased resources for the operation and management of our national parks and other major protection areas will, moreover, normally be considered in the context of annual government budgets. We therefore agree that the proposal should be annexed to the Minutes. As regards Document No: 8:86 on the establishment of a national genetic engineering centre in Tromsø, we also agree on this matter that the proposal is annexed to the Protocol. The proposers point out that this is an area where there is a great need for research, especially given that genetic engineering creates great opportunities for nutrient development, but also potential hazards. Several ministries have provided grants to the Genøk Foundation for several years. The Minister for the Environment, by letter to the Committee, states that he does not consider it the government's task to establish national centres of excellence in research. Reference is made to the Norwegian Research Council, which is a natural body for such issues. We also refer to the comment on the revised national budget. Third Document No Proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community. 8:84, the Government intends to contribute to the establishment and participation of the financing of a competence and culture centre for the wilderness axis of the Tanavas Strait during this large-scale period. The tana watercourse is one of the largest salmon-bearing watercourses for Atlantic salmon in the world. Salmon is also of great importance to the Elvesamian culture. The Atlantic salmon strain is under threat, and the municipality of Tana has at one time been working on the possibility of establishing such a centre of competence and culture for the wild axis of the Tanavas. The centre is intended to focus on salmon as part of Sami and local cultural and resource exploitation – salmon in streams and fjords, and salmon as an experience. It is quite clear that there is a lot of interest in such a project. The Minister for the Environment, by letter to the Committee, points out that both the content, organisation and funding of the project will be assessed and that the Ministry cannot decide on the co-financing of the project at this stage. Also with regard to this Document No. I therefore agree with the conclusion that this is annexed to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e613	Let me first address the suggestions that I have been asked to draw. I will first listen to the debate and then consider what we are going to do with the proposals in these three settings. A few of the options are relatively positive to these three good environmental issues that SV addresses, but I would like the debate to be completed before we assess the fate of the proposals. When it comes to national park management and the focus SV would like to have on it, there is one of the areas — or perhaps the only area — where the Minister for the Environment is something visible on the ground. It also shows the revised budget, one moving more than 3 million. kr to this field - although it is too small, and SV plus much more. Here it's basically a job to do, and the Minister for the Environment knows that if he wants to pursue good environmental policies and good nature park management, it's just to get to SV, he gets a lot for it. Unfortunately, it looks like he wants other partners, and then often loses the environment. But when it comes to what's happening in Stryn this year, SV managed to get multiples on the Energy and Environment Committee, so that there was money for Europeans. There was no such thing as the Minister of the Environment himself, but it actually happened on a proposal from SV in a budget position, a proposal that got multiples. I am so surprised that the government party will not attend and raise the issue that SV here raises. But we hope that one will do so in the forthcoming draft budget. National parks need a lift. That's what SV wants to contribute to, and now it's only up to the government to make sure that it does. In relation to the problem, it is rather remarkable that the case-speaker, Korsberg, argues that this must be done. Korsberg himself was present and heard the municipality's strong desire to get some positive signal from Stortinget. He listened that local democracy asked him, as a magnificent representative, to signal something positive. However, choose the Progress Party not to want anything at all. But luckily, it's a multiple that, in the comments at least, supports up under the intention. So it is this municipality that wants to be, and I think it must be a national responsibility that this important watercourse – which is important not only nationally, but also internationally, and is central to Sami culture – is lifted. That signal is given today by SV, so that the municipality of Tana can stand on to get this done. So finally, a brief comment on the National Centre for Genetics in Tromsø. I'm recording that there's a multiple that's not so very negative about this, but they'd like to get advice from the Research Council before they want to go in for a location to Tromsø. It's really strange that one from Stortinget's side can't act until you've got this advice – it wasn't that much to do to get this advice, if you wanted it. We believe that the Council of State will nevertheless be able to come back to a location of this centre already in the 2004 draft state budget, and would like to challenge him to say something about this in articles on these three issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e626	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e629	I'm not going to spend so much time with the meeting today, too much of what has been said from all the parties, emphasizes in a sense that there is a great deal of consensus about the intention behind all these three proposals. That, I think, is an important signal to both the Storing and the Government that these are areas that we see as important to do something about and look at the possibilities of getting involved in a positive way. In this way, the posts become relatively summary, as Onarheim also stated. I also feel that the positive feedback from the Council of State to the Committee during the examination of these three issues also illustrates that the Council of State is concerned about these issues – constructively. It should also be an important signal to the Stortinge how we should deal with the proposals that are on the table today. I shall only briefly recommend that the parties which have made concrete proposals seriously consider whether to withdraw them, given that the debate is marked by such a large increase in the intention of the proposals that have been made. So, like what Synnøve Konglevoll did, I would also recommend that the proposers consider doing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e638	This debate is about three private proposals. All three proposals concern the theme of natural management and conservation of biodiversity. The Central Party believes that there are good intentions behind the proposals to establish the National Centre for Genetic Ecology in Tromsø and to establish the competence and culture centre for the wild axis of the Tanavas Trail. With regard to these two proposals, we believe it is important for the Government to continue its work on this and come back with a more thorough assessment and recommendation in the context of the 2004 State budget. With regard to the proposal to strengthen and expand the national park administration, we experience more impatience in the Centre Party. The government has worked very actively to create new areas of protection in recent years. The implementation of the adopted plans for national parks and landscape protection areas will affect about one eighth of the areas in this country. In the context of decisions to establish new national parks, the municipalities concerned have been promised to set up posts to provide supervision and natural information. However, to the great disappointment of communities, job creation has not taken place at the same rate as the creation of new areas of protection. In the 2003 state budget, the Government indicated that it would implement the objective of the National Park Plan to establish 36 new and extend 14 existing protected areas by 2010. Such a rapid pace of protection obliges the State to extend the supervisory and information work. However, status shows that several of the large national parks and protection areas established have not yet been publicly funded by the government. For example, the positions are not in place in the Forolhogna National Park and not in the Dovrefjell – Sunndalsjjella National Park. The centre party believes that it is not necessarily the State's natureguard to employ its own personnel. These tasks can usually be solved by purchasing services from local mountain authorities or other local supervisory systems. It is important that information and supervision in national parks are anchored in local communities. The revised 2003 national budget gives a thorough overview of national parks. Here it is established that national parks have a very important role to play in the information and guidance work related to the use of these mountain areas. It appears that ten national parking centres have been established but that five of the planned centres remain to be set up. Established centres also need to strengthen their activities. Three million. kr extra in the revised budget helps a bit on the road. However, we in the Centre Party are clear that a further step up of state contributions must be presented in the 2004 State budget. It is important that national parks can be developed to become a resource for local communities and not be seen as an obstacle to economic development and settlement. It is absolutely necessary to create greater legitimacy and localisation for the protection of these areas. The Centre Party considers it appropriate to facilitate increased local political participation and influence in protection processes and that the protection of areas and the development of neighbouring communities must be seen in a coherent way. However, it is also important that the compensation systems in the area of protection be improved. State-funded positions for the management, supervision and information work of national parks are an important basis for local activity and sustainable management. It is positive that trials will be launched in 2003 with different models of local national park management. It is also important to stress that increased tourist use of mountain areas must be based on respect for local tradition and local nature and cultural values. By building on local values, special and unique tourist services can be created. The centre party endorses the proposal made in Document No. 8:62.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e659	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e663	I take the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Norway is well advanced in protecting mountain areas, but we are not as good in terms of system, management, coordination, profiling and branding, cooperation with local communities around national parks, or in terms of exploiting economic potential beyond the limits of protection. Our National Park Centres have few annual works and so small resources that it is difficult to achieve the objectives of national parks, to communicate and to take care of. SV therefore believes that it is time to bet on building a powerful local park operation through national parks. They're currently only getting a smaller annual supplement for operation, and they're going to have to spend the rest commercially through the hall of tickets and souvenirs. It makes it difficult to plan the development and dissemination of natural information. In addition to strengthening the economy, we should also move more tasks out to the centre. With stronger national parks, with extended tasks, interaction with the community can also be easier and the use of parks greater. In my country, there has been for several decades a locked trench war between the exploitation of natural resources and classical nature conservation, and it should be a goal, not just for Sogn and Fjordane, but for the country, to come out of that kind of backyard. Protective status does not need to be a barrier to nutrient development. Developing a natural use strategy for areas outside the park, which respects both the quality of protection and the need for economic development and commercial profitability, can be a way of resolving such conflicts, in close cooperation with actors such as county councils and national park centres, where they exist. Our protected natural areas are one of our leading travel products. But we're not going to take a blue copy of how other countries use their national parks. We must base the Norwegian tradition, and we should not, as I saw, the leader of the Norwegian Tourist Association was afraid, vulgarize the national parish. We should avoid conflicting product development with noise and interference. There shall be a restrictive line for motorised outland and protection areas. Developments should be based on local quality and preferably on a small scale, and usually on rural development where agriculture and tourism go hand in hand. Governments have provided a briefing on this in the revised version, which has been mentioned by many, and SV ends up with the comments from the government that have been posted there. But in this work, our National Park Centres must be central. They must be central actors and co-players in such processes. I hope that the conference to be held in Stryn at the end of August will be a conference where we will focus on how we can strengthen the administration, and how we can delegate tasks and get more resources linked to national park management, so that we can achieve the goal of the proposal we are dealing with today: building a powerful, local operation of national park centres in national parks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e676	SV has proposed the establishment of a National Centre of Competence for Genetic Ecology, from the existing Institute of Genetic Ecology, Genøk, in Tromsø, and that the Government investigates the structure, forms of association and funding needs and promotes proposals for the Centre of the State Budget for 2004. Genetics create new opportunities, but also potential hazards and risks. The challenge, therefore, is to control development. The uncertainty of the use of genetically manipulated products in nature is very high. Manufacturers of gene foods claim that there is no reason to believe that food is harmful to humans. The critics claim the opposite. There are very few independent surveys. However, the few studies carried out on the effect of genetic food on animals are alarming. There is little independent genetic engineering research. Very much of the competence in genetic engineering and the possible consequences for humans and the environment are in the companies themselves, and this is unfortunate. The authorities controlling genetic food must have competence that can be measured by the commercial operators, and it is also a condition for good research that a person is not dependent on commercial operators. Genetic engineering is a young technology that can have great consequences for ecological balance and human health. Research in the field of genetic engineering must therefore focus not only on technology itself but also on ecology. Troms is a natural place to locate a centre of expertise. The reason for this is the already established Genøk Foundation and the proximity to the research environment within e.g. marine biology. Increased investment in the field of genetic engineering and the environment also requires increased government funding. The Research Council is a professional and a good and competent body, but it is not the appropriate body to set up a national centre for genetic engineering. This is a political task. One may not assign this type of task to the Norwegian Research Council. Finding out what we think is important to bet on, what is forward-looking, what is actionable, and seeing the challenges and gripping them – that's what politicians and the Storting are for. I'm sorry that the majority of people didn't take the ball and agreed to an assessment of the need to establish a national centre of excellence in genetics. I hope that the ball won't stop here, but that it will roll on, and I will challenge the Council of State to arrest it and follow up our proposal in the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e687	Since I am the case rapporteur for Innst. S. No 256, cf. Document No 8:84, about wild breeds in Tana, I feel the need to make a few brief comments after hearing the comments of the representative Langeland. As I said in my post, I am aware that there are plans for other centres of similar character. I have received a number of enquiries about this, since I am – probably – the rapporteur of the case, and would just like to show that it is among other things. a knowledge centre for salmon and aquatic environment in Namsos. There are also other planning centres, which have not come so far that they are as well known or published. As there is no financing plan for this Tana centre, I think it is completely wrong to launch a special project in front of others, who have not had the same opportunity to get into that position. It is quite right, as the representative of Langeland says, that I, as the case-rapporteur – at least at the time – had a meeting with the municipality of Tana where they were able to present their project. But since the others have not had the same opportunity, I think it would be totally wrong to go into that proposal concretely. So I recommend the representative of Langeland to draw the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e694	The left would have liked to have said something about case no. 2 also, where we have a lot of commitment, but I also have great faith that the Council of State can do the job. We also have that in case No. 3, but I want to make a special call to SV here, based on some of the things that the case-rapporteur – as I also see it as the case-rapporteur – said at this time. I have a great sense of the plans put forward in Tana, and the thinking behind it. However, it is important to see all measures relating to the wild species in their entirety. In Namdalen, a model has been developed around a competence centre for wild and aquatic species, where they try to see the interests of farming and the interests of wild birds in a whole range of ways. They're done figuring out what kind of model they're going to have, with the breeding industry, with the local management, with landowners, with the hunting and fishing association, with the research at NINA, with the salmon-veterinary interests, and with other local interests, from Statskog and Versatile to all the sports shops in the area, etc. They have established an initial capital and are soon to see the end of their entire pre-project. HiNT, the Nord-Trøndelag High School, is well inside the plan, and they build common capacity both in the lab and in the meeting room. As regards the aquatic compartment, a monitoring system for the aquatic environment is already in place in Namsen, called NAMSINFO. It is run by Food Control, but one also wants to connect it to such a centre of expertise for salmon in Namdalen. Very good environmental work has been done in this area, based on the setting of the Rieber-Mohn Committee, for example. the work done in the case of salmonnus in order to bring down the salmon thousandths drastically. What's exciting about this knowledge center in Namdalen is that you connect farming interests, environmental interests and wild interests together in a very exciting way. I believe it is important that the Council of State sees all these measures in a broader context before deciding who is to bet on and how it is important to bet on them – and they do not necessarily have to be competitive. Therefore, I come with a new call for SV to draw up the proposal, so that we can see all these salmon measures in a larger context, that the competence is developed in common, and that competing units are not created based on who was first persuaded by a staging representative to deliver a Document No. Eight proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e703	I could go into a line here with different representatives, but I will refrain from doing so. I'm just going to say that from the Government and Labour Party's side, there has been so much positive about the three SV proposals that they really should have had multiples of all three. I see they don't get it, but on the contrary, they get the signal that when a person comes back to the cases, they get multiples. On that basis SV will choose to make proposals for transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e708	Those proposals were then converted into proposals for transmission and the text will be amended accordingly. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two, three, four. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 5, 6 and 7 are treated together. [[See page 3434]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e750	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes each, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group, and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e761	For 84 years there has been hydropower production in the Saudi Mountains. This has been crucial for the development of the Saudi community, both industrially and otherwise. The case currently applies is the upgrading of existing power plants in combination with extensions in the form of new transfers without new regulatory installations. This is planned by transferring watercourses that have not previously been used for hydropower generation, in order to ensure better use of resources. This project is very important for the Sauda community in particular, but will also have positive ring-effects in the region in terms of both increased activity and other ways. The project could contribute positively to the difficult impact situation in the region and be important for strengthening the Norwegian and Nordic power balance. There is also reason to stress that this development project is highly reversible, and any interference with nature may be reversed later, if necessary. The application for the concession was supported by the Aktiegesellschaft Saudefallene, and the NVE presented its decision to the Ministry of Oil and Energy on 23 April last year. The NVE's attitude has highlighted the increasing gap between power generation and consumption in Norway and the significant uncertainty associated with the phase-in of alternative energy sources and import opportunities. In addition, the NVE emphasises that the project involves a significantly better use of previously developed watercourses and that the transfer of new watercourses contributes to power and energy availability that will have a significant impact on power generation. The NVE has also focused on the environment and outdoor life in the Skaulen area and the Inner Etneberg. NVE has taken Saltåna and Langfossen out of the project in its setting while at the same time tightening the requirements for minimum water flow. This means that the power production in the project will be somewhat reduced, and according to the setting will be approx. 960 GWh/year. However, the developer, Aktieselskabet Saudefallen, has found NVE’s position as an acceptable solution. Despite this, and despite the fact that our main professional body, the NVE, has assessed this project and come to a reasonable and balanced position, where one has weighed the amount of force against the natural attack, we today experience that the Progress Party is all alone in going for this setting. Unfortunately, the majority of Storting today decides to halve the NVE position, saying no to half a TWh clean and new force. As I said at the outset, an extension will produce extensive positive ring-effects and create increased activity in the region. The increasing unemployment rate we now have is serious, and this project will have a positive impact on employment. Taking a starting point in the NVE's position, this would involve an investment of DKK 2.5 billion, which would once again give 200-300 annual works per year. years, distributed over seven years. The project would also help to ensure further industrial development in North Rogaland and Ryfylke, as well as be positive for the region’s industrial workplaces. We also see that the powerful industry in the region is struggling with problems. The precarious power situation in the area has led, for example, to the agreement of Hydro’s aluminiumworks on Karmøy with Statnett on decoupling during difficult periods. Due to strict environmental requirements, the same holding has to replace today's southernberg technology by 2010. There are clear signals from Hydro that, if such an investment decision is to be made, more power has to be provided. Without this modernisation, about 1000 jobs may be at risk of being lost only in the company itself. I also think it is important in today's situation to give positive signals from Stortinget's side to our powerful industry in general. In many places, this type of industry is crucial in terms of value creation, employment and housing. Norwegian power-intensive industries are also among the most environmentally friendly and energy efficient in the world. At the same time, when we know that this industry is operating in an international market, it is important that it is subject to framework conditions which are as harmonised as possible with the conditions of the countries with which we compete. Environmental arguments are the most widely used in Norway for increasing power generation. However, we must remember that as long as the demand for the products produced by the Norwegian industry remains, production will be moved out of the country if it is stopped in Norway. At the same time, we know that the majority of countries have emission requirements as in Norway, and that energy is often produced in a much less environmentally friendly way, for example at coal or nuclear power plants. Nor should we forget that with the current power situation, we need to import large quantities of power from such plants into general supply in Norway. It should therefore be obvious to most people that such a hydropower project as can now be realized in Saudi Arabia will also have clear environmental benefits. I think it is alarming, not least in the light of last winter's political power crisis, that the majority of this room has not yet realized the seriousness of the situation. In spite of sky-high electricity prices, which forced many to go the heavy road to the social office to get help in winter, it has not yet been understood that power generation needs to be increased in order to balance the market. For many years from this pulpit, the undersigned has warned that such a situation could arise if power production was not increased. In addition, the NVE has given equally clear signals. Despite these innumerable warnings, the deaf ear has been turned into nothing. And the result of this political act was the Norwegian people feeling on the body this winter. I think it's amazing that in a country like Norway, which is almost flooded with energy, you've managed to mess it up this way. It is not easy to criticise the Government’s energy policy – simply because the Government has no energy policy. And if we look at both this case and other issues we are going to deal with later today, unfortunately, there does not seem to be any plans to bring about offensive policies in this area either. In the last century, there were forward-looking politicians and industry leaders who, together, would use our resources for the benefit of countries and people. This is unfortunately not good Latin anymore. Today, this has been replaced by a misunderstanding and totally misguided environmental policy, which unfortunately has very little to do with the environment. We are increasingly experiencing weak politicians dancing after the so-called environmental protection pipe, without actually getting involved. Now it is the symbols and symbolism that, unfortunately, have become the most important. This is what we also experience today in terms of the political majority, who actively intervene and halve this important force building. The majority set aside political opinions from four municipalities and two counties. The majority also set out clear opinions from the NHO, the PIL, the EBL and the Landssaman conclusion of Vasskraftkommunar. And the majority also don't care that a collective trade union movement supports the NVE's attitude. The progress party listens to the signals from these, and we also trust that the NVE, as our main expert body, has made the assessments they are going to make. We therefore, of course, promote proposals in line with the NVE's position. With this, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the voting on case No. 5, 6 and 7, as well as the proposal distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e812	The representative of Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e817	I'm glad I'm in a party that has understood the seriousness and that we see the whole thing. The working party emphasises that development projects are to be assessed in relation to the environment and energy supply. From this we have come up with our alternative through thorough work, and we have assessed the consequences. It seems that the Progress Party does not take into account the environment when we see today that they are proposing to assess previously rejected projects and protected watercourses. The Progress Party uses NVE as an argument for its position. Does the Progress Party believe that politicians are not really supposed to be in charge of energy and environmental policy? Have they gained such confidence in the bureaucracy of central government, or is trust only present when it suits the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e824	The representative of Klungland asks if we attach very great trust to the bureaucracy and the NVE. In this case and in a matter we have later today, when it comes to the development of the Hateberg watercourse, we have the same view as NVE. We've gone in and looked at NVE's settings. We think they have made good judgements. But of course, the Progress Party is making its opinion independent of this. There is also reason to ask the question: why should we spend so much time and effort on this professional body, if the majority of the Stortinges later don't care about the NVE's position at all? We would rather turn it down and see if we would rather run the case directly in Stortinget, without such an adjustment. We are confident that the NVE in this case and in the next case has made a thorough and good assessment and weighed it up forcefully against environmental interference.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e829	If it were up to the Progress Party, all the foxes in Norway would be put in touch. The motto of the Progress Party appears to be: pipes and asphalt throughout Norway. The party’s argument to support the NVE’s decision is to increase power generation in order to address the power crisis. At the same time, the Progress Party is going in so that the price of electricity is going to be much lower than it is today. More hydropower, construction of gas power plants, yes, even increased investment in new renewable energy by establishing a mandatory green certificate market, the Progress Party has recently entered into force. It may be appropriate to recall that during the hearings, PIL emphasised that the Sauda expansion would have no significance whatsoever in relation to the electricity price, but that would, on the other hand, remove the electricity charge – a major impact on the electricity price! There will be some form of drug addiction — the lower price increases demand, which in turn increases the need for further production. The problem cannot be solved unless the consumption side is taken up and energy savings are stepped up and the power market is under control. Unfortunately, the Free Floating Ideology of the Advance Party does not include free-flowing cases, at least not yet. But how many pipes does it take before even the Progress Party is satisfied? Is there a watercourse in Norway at all that the Progress Party does not want to expand?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e838	It certainly does. There are many watercourses in Norway that the Progress Party does not want to expand. But we have, in case 7, proposed to resume some projects that have been rejected in the past, in the hope that there may be some more sensible people in this room in this period than in the previous one, when they were rejected. So to this that the Sauda expansion will not affect price development. I think that might be quite right, this isn't enough. But if we can build up both this project and some other projects, in addition to at least putting in place the three gas power plants that have been granted a concession, and perhaps some more, I am sure that the market will make sure that the price of electricity will fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e845	The representative Vaksdal called for the government's energy policy, and had some rhetorical tricks to claim that there was not much to get from there. Then it's enough to mention: the government is investing in alternative and renewable energy, it's investing in wind turbines, on bioenergy, mini-power plants, micro-power plants, small power plants, and it's investing in upgrading existing power plants. In addition, this government, as the first, has invested in the development of gas power plants with CO2 handling, there is investment in hydrogen, and besides, Enova has been constantly given new tasks with active investment in environmentally friendly, right energy. It might be interesting to ask the representative: is there an upper limit on the extent to which the Progress Party can participate, or is it such that the same amount of effort is favourable to achieving a balance in the power market? I think that even there you have to realize that there is an upper limit going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e852	The representative Lioness referred to the Government's energy policy. He mentioned windmills, small power plants and gas power plants with CO2 handling. To take this with windmills, one cannot today have power generation based on windmills without one having state support. It is therefore necessary to subsidise power generation in the energy country of Norway. So to this with small power plants. It has turned out that the government – both this and the previous – has done almost everything in its power to stop this. We have a proposal today, in which at least in the form of a note it has been written some positive. I hope the government follows this up. So for this with gas power plants with CO2 handling. That technology will not be available before maybe 10 to 15 years. Norwegian consumers don't have time to wait as long as the power is needed now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e864	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e867	The winter we've spent behind us has shown that many people have warned in a long time, namely that we produce too little power in Norway. We've got unacceptablely high power bills, which many people have not been able to pay, and there's a big gap between what we produce and what we consume. This winter was extreme, but also in a normal year, we produce far less than what we use. In other words, we have made ourselves completely dependent on imports, among other things. of coal power. The working party believes that the energy nation Norway cannot settle down on such a situation. That is why we want far more than the Government to use the country's natural resources. I also believe that there is a long way between other measures from the Government to do something about the power situation. Saka we're dealing with now is a good example of that. If it had been will among the government parties, we could have adopted today a larger expansion in Saudi Arabia, which would give more power. The Labour Party primarily wants a larger extension than the Government proposes. Several representatives from the Right Party have expressed the same opinion, but have not received any feedback from their government partners. It helps very little with fine party speeches if they are not implemented in practical action. Since 1919, there has been an expansion of power in Sauda. The expansion in Sauda we're dealing with now is a gentle expansion of power. We're going to have relatively small natural interventions, and we're going to get a lot of force back. Nevertheless, part of the builder's application would lead to excessive intervention, in our opinion. This is an example of the Long Feet. For the Workers' Party, it has also been important to avoid the development of the Åbodenal Watercourse. This watercourse is salmon-bearing, and the Åbotalen is a great and widely used tour area. When the Workers' Party is in favour of primarily expanding the remaining part of the Nordtransfer, it is because we believe that the nature interventions here would be small, and the area is largely characterised by power development from before. An expansion, as we suggest, would give an increase in annual power generation of about 365 GWh compared to the government's proposal. The broad political consensus that the time for the new, large-scale deployments is over is solid. From the Workers' Party it is important to look at the extent of the natural interventions. The Sauda extension is a power build with small natural interventions that give a lot of power. Minimum water supply has been established in most affected rivers and streams, and Storelva, which is currently dry for much of the year, will receive minimum water supply. Then we must not forget that if we, or any of those who come after us, find that we do not need this force anymore, and that the water should be returned to the rivers, yes, it is possible to do so. We are also in a situation where unemployment increases every day. The large debate on unemployment does not belong in this debate, but it is important to point out that the expansion of Saudi Arabia will also have a major employment impact and will have many local effects that are worth mentioning. With the proposals of the Workers' Party, the extension would last for two to three years, with approximately the same crew as in the first years. In addition to this, we believe that it is also essential to give industry in this country a signal that we will provide enough strength for further development and new investment. That's what we're totally dependent on if we're going to increase value creation. An extension as the Workers' Party goes in for, would have been a bigger contribution to this than the result we're going to get here today, is. The development agreement concluded between the builder and the municipalities concerned had a value of 90 million. kr. With the Government's proposal, its value will be significantly reduced. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes that the Government assess the establishment of a nutrition fund for Sauda and Odda in the context of this expansion, and that the Government return to this in the context of the 2004 State budget. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Workers' Party, which is distributed in the Chamber, and what is in the vote. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that if the Workers' Party's proposals for expansion were to fall, we will vote in favour of the Government's proposal, in order to ensure that there is at all expansion in Saudi Arabia. I would also like to mention the proposal No. 1 and 2 of case No. 7, from the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Centre Party, when I did not hear that the case-rapporteur took these up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e890	The representative Sylvia Brustad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e895	After hearing the comments of the representative Sylvia Brustad, it is only clear that the working party is satisfied with the situation in the Norwegian electricity market and will have high electricity prices. I am a little surprised that the Workers' Party does not attach trust to the NVE in this matter. They have a tradition of doing that. But it is probably then a legacy from Jens Stoltenberg's New Year's Eve speech, where he concluded that the hydroelectric development time was over. Then I have a question for the Workers' Party, which goes to a comment that says in the setting: ‘The Working Party and the Progress Party will also point to the negative fact that neither power generation has been started based on our huge gas resources, and refers to the political uncertainty created around it, as well as the economic uncertainty associated with future emission requirements.’ In other words, we are pointing to the Kyoto agreement and the peculiarly strict emission requirements. What will the Workers' Party do to remove this uncertainty that they themselves have been involved in creating?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e911	I assume that the expression 'doubt' is not a parliamentary expression, but when I still choose to use it in relation to what Mr Korsberg is saying here, it is because I mean it. So it's simply customs to say that the working party is too high power prices. We've said very clearly, not only this winter, but also long before that, that it's a huge problem that we have so much power deficit in Norway. That was also the background to the fact that it was actually the Workers' Party in the government that gave the concession to build three gas power plants, which unfortunately have not been built. We have also made it possible, in several rounds, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget, to spend much more money on, for example: renewable energy. This does not support the Progress Party. With regard to the matter we are talking about today, which could also be a significant contribution to doing something about the force situation, we have an almost as comprehensive proposal as the Progress Party. The difference is that we're taking out the Åbothetal, because the Workers' Party, unlike the Progress Party, is also concerned with environmental protection. We're concerned that people should be able to move out in nature, and it's important therefore to preserve the Åbotalen as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e920	Let me first say that this must be a sad matter in relation to the Labour Party's Prime Minister's candidate and the lack of confidence he now has in environmental and nature protection issues, based on the New Year's Eve. That means that from the left-hand side, there's only one candidate left, and there's one female. So to the question. The Labour Party fights with beaks and claws in Oslo so that the state or other public owners will buy up Hafslund. In Sauda, they fight with beaks and claws to make American shareholders spend more on raging Norwegian nature. What kind of policy is the Labour Party in this matter? And finally, the Labour Party, and also the Advance Party, got into SV because we don't want to help Saudi with a nutrition fund. And then we say, "Yes, we'll do that." And what do we see today? We get a proposal from the Labour Party that says zero and nothing – one should evaluate it in the budget. What is the Workers' Party going to do for Sauda?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e929	The gift of grace is also a gift. And that's what I think the representative Langeland is presenting here, when he asks the Workers' Party questions about what we want to do for Saudi. As you know, SV won't do anything for Sauda. SV does not want any expansion. What we're proposing would have meant both more jobs and more power, which could have done something about power prices. It would have contributed to an impact situation in the area in relation to industry. It is also true that when we propose that a nutrition fund be set up, we believe that it should be properly dealt with, and we expect the government to come back to it in the government budget for the autumn. Otherwise, I must also say that it is completely wrong when Langeland says that Stoltenberg's words are not established. What Stoltenberg said was that the time for new large hydropower expansions is over. That, of course, stands firm. Sauda is neither new nor large in terms of traditional nature interventions, but it is large in terms of renewable energy and as a growth impulse in District Norway. That is why the Labour Party is in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e938	I think there's a lot we can agree with the Workers' Party in terms of describing an actual situation in relation to the deficit problem that Sylvia Brustad was facing, and our need to cover what is needed in relation to deficits. I was actually going to ask questions about the same thing, which was going on in the big hydroelectric engineering era. It has Sylvia Brustad black clearly on it now. I am very happy that she signals that the Workers' Party in the continuation will stand by it, because at least we have a platform to work with. A question in relation to price and availability in terms of power: I agree with Sylvia Brustad in the description, but does she see a contrast between the fact that, on the one hand, more power is being built up to keep prices down, while this afternoon perhaps giving State power 10 billion, with the consequence that competition in the market is being weakened, and that prices may be repressed as a result? Does Sylvia Brustad see any contrast between what you do in this case, and what we might have to do later today in relation to Statkraft?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e947	I can now only add, both in relation to the question from Langeland and in relation to what Rahm now said, that the Workers' Party's proposal for power development in Saudi is largely about upgrading, modernising and extending existing facilities. That's why there's no new large hydropower expansion, like some later to give the impression. So to the question of whether I see any difference between expanding more power to bring down prices – which is absolutely necessary, that's why I'm so surprised that there's so much inaction in the government in relation to building more power – and the fact that the Workers' Party, SV and hopefully more parties, so that it becomes a majority, later this evening will make sure that State Power gets NOK 10 billion. No, there's no difference here. I believe that it is pure and cut alarm propaganda from the government parties to try to give the impression that strengthening State power's equity would lead to high electricity prices. I believe it is soon time that the government parties also take inwards that we no longer have a Norwegian power market, but a Nordic – and soon a northern European – power market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e956	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e959	The question of continued regulation of the Storevässläge and further expansion in the Saudafjelene has been a difficult matter, with many opinions. On the one hand, we know that over the last ten years, there has been a consumption growth in energy consumption that is about six times greater than the growth in production, and that is a normal year. As a result, the energy nation of Norway is dependent on importing electricity, even this year with normal rainfall. Last autumn it was not normal rainfall, and we have therefore left behind a winter when the threat of rationalization hung over us. It has clearly shown how vulnerable we are to the way we have built up our energy system. Since 99 pst. of our power supply comes from hydropower generation, we are vulnerable to climate and rainfall variations. We can control a lot in this country from this room, but developments in weather are left to forces other than public decisions. We as consumers, both individuals and businesses, depend on stable supply and stable prices. In fact, much of our industry is just built around the supply of energy. On the other hand, the Cooperation Government in the Sem Declaration has said that the time for the large hydroelectric power deployments is over, but that upgrades and adjustments to existing installations will be a positive contribution to the power balance and exploitation of our natural resources. The expansion in Sauda is a good example of this. Without significant environmental intervention, such as new large ponds and dry river owners, the builder is able to obtain 490 GWh/year of new power in what is proposed by the Government. The Government proposes to grant a concession for the transfer of the Lingvang and Tengesdal watercourse in Suldal and Maldalselva and Sagelva in Saudi Arabia. It is proposed that the riverbed should be withdrawn, as is the northward transfer. The inclusion of these areas would provide additional significant amounts of power, but in the balance between environmental interests these weights are the most important. The Ombudsale is a popular cabin and tour area and is used by many people in open air. This area has a beautiful cultural landscape and significant environmental qualities. Similarly, for areas in the north transmission, which are almost untouched areas of great importance for regional outdoors. Right-wing welcome 490 GWh/year of renewed strength, both in recognition of the need to strengthen the balance of forces, and in the context of the project representing investment and employment for the community for a period of time. Furthermore, we welcome this because it is about the exploitation of natural resources and the production of clean, renewable energy. The impact situation in the area is a bottleneck that will also be improved through this project. As mentioned at the outset, this case has not always been as easy, and the lines between different opinions have also been quite clear. But at the end of the seventh, we have to make a choice. The matter has been difficult, not just for us, as the discussion between parties and internally in several parties has shown. However, I am pleased that the Workers' Party has announced that they support the Government's proposals subsidiaryly and that in this matter we can have a robust majority together. I would also like to take the opportunity to commend the Workers' Party for an open and good dialogue in the proceedings during the work of the Committee. A good compromise may be described as a solution where all parties are somewhat dissatisfied. No one claims to be a winner in relation to their primary view in this matter. The community in the Sauda area is dissatisfied because the expansion did not increase. Some parties have similar views, as well as a number of professional and business organisations that have expressed their views on the matter. The environmental movement, on the other hand, is dissatisfied with the Government's proposal because, in their opinion, it means a major intervention in nature. These too have their party political supporters. And the builder might also think of a slightly more extensive expansion. Against this background, the Government's proposals must be said to be a good compromise. Now there is understandable enough frustration among many local politicians that the new route between Saudi and Etne does not seem to be able to be financed by the Government's development proposals. There has therefore been an impression in relation to the desire to have a greater compensation than the previously agreed between the builder and the municipalities. The right and government parties have not been able to support this. The agreement entered into takes into account what will happen to the compensation if the project is reduced, and there will be errors about the Stortinge on its part to be included in an already concluded agreement between the builder and the municipalities. In this context, I must also point out that the proposals that have been distributed in the Chamber today are a little strange, given that the same parties agreed to go away from these kinds of compensation schemes. This was done on a proposal from the Bondevik I Government for the 1998 financial year. There was no comment from the committee, which thus put itself together behind the government. Then we can always ask the question whether the short-term memory is bad, or whether there is something special in this particular case that makes them implement these types of arrangements. As regards Document No: 8:71 in 2002-2003 on measures to ensure increased hydropower generation, I would like to thank the Committee for a good and constructive cooperation on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Halleraker. An overall committee here shows that existing hydropower structures need to be better exploited and the use of mini-power plants increased. The Government will facilitate the development of small power plants and the NVE has been delegated the power to take decisions for extensions with installed power up to 5 MW. The right and the government parties believe that it is appropriate to consider raising this limit to 10 MW as experience with the delegation of power deduces. Until now, actors who want to bet on small power plants have had to deal with legislation and bureaucracy as if there were large, traditional power plants we talked about. If we are to succeed in realising the potential of this type of power generation, it is important that the process and processing time are in line with the scale of the projects. It is referred to here that the Government announces a conversion of the overall plan, where, among other things. will take into account the efforts to simplify management systems for the benefit of users. Finally, I would like to mention an important point where the government parties Right and Christian People's Party in the setting of the Climate Communication, Innst. S. No 240 for 2001-2002, is part of a majority comment that says that we ‘shows that the Storting has expressed on several occasions support for increased use of micro and mini-power plants. However, in watercourses protected against traditional power generation, it must be possible to permit the development of such small-scale power stations where they do not cause significant interference in nature.`; The production potential of this type of power plant is estimated to be between 10 and 15 TWh per. years, and this is a type of development that can be carried out relatively quickly in a range of 4–5 TWh per. years. In addition to strengthening the power balance, such projects represent a potential for value creation in District Norway and may provide important input to landowners who often operate traditional agriculture. The force balance implies that we have to do several things at once. If we are to reduce the vulnerability to today's power generation, it is not least important to point out the three gas power plant concessions that have already been granted. Realising these could make a significant contribution to a more robust electricity supply in the country. In addition, I must also remember that the aim of Enova is to deliver 10 TWh of new renewable energy per. years, either by means of an additional measure or by stimulating the production of new energy. Back to Sauda. I would, on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, recommend the proposal for a decision in St.prp. No 55, which is also the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1003	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1006	I would first like to draw your attention to the fact that there is nothing in our proposal that the nutrition fund should be publicly funded, and therefore we are not introducing a new practice, as one of which, according to the representative Meling here said, could get the impression. So this is a different proposal from the one put on the table by the Progress Party. When it comes to the matter, I understand that the representative Meling and several representatives from the Right today have a bit of difficulty. I think it is a pity that they did not get through to join the Workers' Party for a larger extension than what is now the result of this treatment. I also understood that one of the arguments on the Right has been that we need more power. And I have a question to the representative Meling regarding the comment that stands in the vote, where representatives of the Right and Christian People's Party say that they ‘refers to the Government’s broad strategy to strengthen energy supply and to make it less weather-dependent’. What is the Government’s ‘wide strategy’ to do something about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1020	I am a little surprised that the representative Brustad now says that it is not as a guide that a business fund should be publicly funded. I take it as a sign of the unforeseeableness of the Workers' Party in relation to business, because then it is probably the builder who will suddenly have to pay more money. From our point of view, we are concerned with predictability, not least for business. On the issue of the Government's broad commitment to new energy, I just want to remind you of the three concessions for gas power stations located there. I would like to remind you of the government's commitment to gas power plants with CO2 management. It will eliminate the vulnerability of the power supply system today, where 99 pst. the force derives from hydropower. In addition, we support the target of Enova of 10 TWh new renewable energy or an additional measure. We want to bet on small power plants, and we see a potential in upgrading. I think the argument that we don't have a broad strategy and bet on energy is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1027	I must say that the right-wing behaviour in the Sauda case has been very alarming. Never has the saying «up like a lion and down like a skin trap» matched better than the one on the right in this matter. All the members of the Right Party of the Committee have spoken to a number of newspapers and media, giving the impression that they are actually in favour of a greater expansion than the Government has proposed. On the basis of this, there have been some expectations, not least in Rogaland, and of course an even greater disappointment after the colossal belly pad of the Right in this matter. Is the representative Meling proud of the Right's action in this matter, and is she comfortable with the Right, as so many times before, also this time failing important business interests?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1036	For the right, it is important that energy policy is predictable. It is an important part of our infrastructure, both in relation to private households and in relation to business. We want predictability. Therefore, we initially wanted to form a majority together with the Labour Party in this matter. I'm not going to hide what I wanted primarily in terms of the Sauda expansion. But we're in a government with three parties. Then it goes without saying that on this issue, which is difficult, not only for us, but also for others, we need to arrive at a balanced decision on the amount of power and the environment. When it comes to failing business, I would say that energy is important. This government is doing a lot in relation to wage formations in the future, in relation to interest rate developments, in relation to currency, in relation to making more money available, so that business does not need to be milked to finance a disproportionately large public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1043	The Youth Party, including the Young Right, has, in this case, been associated with SV to try to stop an expansion. State Council Børge Brende has a seat in a hook and keep your mouth shut to avoid saying anything, while he has written letters on how important it is to preserve Norwegian nature. So we have a situation where SV offers multiple numbers and negotiations with the Government, but one of the government parties – Right – says they won't negotiate with SV. It has to be over their equal, they say. They flag a position, regardless of the Government. So I just have to ask, are they in the government, and do they mean what the government means, or what they said was going on in the media? SV suggests grabbing something that Right is occupied by, e.g. efficiency. We say we can save 25 Sauda expansions in energy efficiency. The second question is, What does the Right mean about energy efficiency?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1052	As I mentioned in the post, this is a difficult matter with many opinions, both between parties and internally in parties. With regard to this matter in relation to our youth party, it is thus in line with several other parties as well. As far as the question of negotiating with SV is concerned, as I said, in this kind of energy-related issue, we wanted to seek a robust majority with the Workers' Party. This was not something on its own that agreed to have as a starting point. This was something we had discussed in advance. So there's no need to overdramatize that case. In terms of energy efficiency, we will come back to that matter later today. Then I get a little bit more into what the Right believes in that particular question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1061	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1064	First, I take up the SV's proposal in this case – a proposal that will save the development of natural beauty and protective footfalls for future generations, as all the youth organisations in the parties have demanded, minus FpU. The SV's proposals address the real challenge of energy policy, simply to reduce consumption and to be more energy efficient. SV's proposal involves the environmental movement and former environmental protection minister Thorbjørn Berntsen has understood, i.e. measures that together constitute 25 Saudi extensions. All other parts do not help. They're raging Norwegian nature, they're ruining natural experiences for our children and grandchildren, and it doesn't help anything in the energy situation at all. They do that to ensure American stock speculators increase their revenue for their luxury consumption. The game battles with beaks and claws for Elkem, Elkem who in 1997 promised Saudi gold and green forests. The company should do anything for Sauda, they said. They were even going to build a new acetic acid factory. They believed in a lot of them, and they got a right to fall. It was only the SV and the Labour Party who opposed this. Two years later – what did this company do? Yes, the very same factory! Those who had promised to bet on Sauda sold the factory! And now it's so that a multiple here today is going to pay them for the betrayal they did. This doesn't sound good. The working party's situation is very special. From the fact that Elkem was to be built out and have the fallrights in 1997, they have now emerged as the greatest driver for American shareholders to be able to shave as much as possible of Sauda's nature and Sauda's Falls and Pitches, this after the late Prime Minister Stoltenberg said in his New Year's speech that 'the time for large hydroelectric expansions is over'. His troubling as Prime Minister's candidate is equal to zero, as many of the leader's writers have been in it. So there's only one Prime Minister candidate left on the left, and there's one woman. What one sees in the Workers' Party is that a fight with beaks and claws for us to buy up Hafslund, so it's going to be in public ownership. Then one sees that the Working Party in Sauda-saka fights with beaks and claws so that a private developer can build out. Then one can hide behind the relapse institute, but it doesn't work. The Left and Christian People's Party are in government and are making itself an environmental party, it is unlikely, the parties that are involved in raging Lingvangfossen, Tengesdalselva, Maldalsfossen, Sagfossen – there is nothing but old-fashioned force socialists we see in the Left and in the Christian People's Party. And when the Left in a press release says they're happy, and has taken care of their environmental concerns, this doesn't go hand in hand, not least in the light of what's stated in the Sem statement that the time for large hydropower expansions is over. It doesn't match what one says in the Left and Christian People's Party. The Left and Christian People's Party today is involved in raging Norwegian nature and taking great natural experiences away from our children and grandchildren. That is what the Left and Christian People's Party is doing today. It knows how to move the environment, and it says the Youth Party – everyone, with the exception of the FpU. Last year, Norway exported electricity corresponding to more than 20 Sauda extensions. So it's going to be crazy to argue that we need a Saudi expansion to rock the industry, as the Labour Party does, and as parts of tradesmanship do, or to keep the power price down. It's a mistake to attack the cause. What we need, is to make sure we regulate the export, see if the energy law works according to our intention, and make sure that a non-exporter in liability, like one did in the fall, then a emptied warehouse. Then one, as SV says, must enter and look at how one has deregulated, and when it does not work, one must reregulate, and one must look at the energy laws. Then the solution lies there. So we need a focus on energy saving and energy efficiency, as Torbjørn Berntsen has pointed out, while the current Environment Minister has not dared to say one word in this matter, only has written about how important it is with pristine nature. And this is extra annoying, I thought. The party as Right, and also the other government parties, trades over and over again on the importance of being effective in the public sector, how important it is to be effective here, at school and at the hospital – everything should be so effective, for one to save money, but within the energy sector one should not think so at all, when it is demonstrably from among others. construction industry is said to be able to save 20 Sauda extensions. Why then do not grasp and do it effectively also on the energy side, and not just talk about it when it concerns the public sector, but actually also do something in relation to the concrete things you can do to bring down the energy consumption, as SV suggests? Finally, a few words about what to do with the Sauda community. SV experienced a huge blow from the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, because we wouldn't be involved in compensating for Sauda in the form of a nutrition fund. That ball caught me. We had a meeting with Saudi SV and Rogaland SV to try to find a solution that would enable us to help the Saudi community in the situation they were in, despite the fact that we would not build out. And as we know, we have a different community economics policy than the others. I grabbed the ball and told the Progress Party and the Workers' Party: if they can become a few on a proposal that can contribute to the Sauda Food Fund, involved in actions in Sauda that can create more optimism in Sauda, then SV should be involved and support it, so that one does not have a major road in that proposal. So one here today feels that the Progress Party comes up with a expensive proposal and a lot of money, and it's not that unusual, while the Labour Party has a proposal that asks the Government to create a nutrition fund. One must want to do it on its own -- there's no will from the Labour Party in such a proposal, on the contrary, a push case ahead, and then a people will think that now the Government has come up with a proposal that will give Sauda many millions of dollars. They don't. The government has not planned it, and it is strongly advised to do so. There are several people here who should think about how they have profiled themselves in Sauda – not just the Right, not just the Labour Party, there are several parties that have something they should tell the Sauda community after this case is settled. Since 1997, SV has consistently said that we do not want to expand the fossan in Saudi Arabia. We have said that in Sauda SV, in Rogaland SV and on the Stortinget. We're still at it, and we're proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1090	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has taken up the proposal he referred to initially. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1095	If it's a party that doesn't have credibility in energy issues, it's SV. SV has been against all the extensions I have been involved in handling in Stortinget. But they think the power price is too high. This winter we fought about prices. On 1 May, the SV leader in Høyanger promised the industry more power, and last weekend the Socialist Left Party informed on the Power Days at Tonstad that the price is still too high. Today they could get almost 1 TW with renewable energy into the market. Where does SV find similar quantities of power at a lower price and which are more environmentally friendly? If there's someone who should take care of the mouth, as the representative Langeland said, it's really SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1101	The President is a little uncertain as to whether "käft" and "melt" are expressions that are allowed to be used in this room, but the representative does not cry, I hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1104	It is clear that the Labour Party now feels the need to defend itself in relation to the miserable energy policy that they have faced. They have, after all, been in government many times, and they haven't done anything, but every time they're in opposition, they come and tell the government what to do, because they didn't do it themselves. It's true in the gas cases that they flag, and that they want every day in the opposition, that they didn't do anything about. So this is also true in this case of Sauda, where they now have the flag of a larger expansion and say to people that if we had that expansion, the power price would have gone down. I've never heard any greater nonsense. Of course, the electricity price would not have fallen downwards with a small expansion like Sauda, but a raging nature with this expansion. What SV does is exactly what Torbjørn Berntsen went into. SV grab hold of the consumption page. We say there is an energy saving potential on 25 Sauda extensions. It's doing something really concrete. This is not what the Labour Party wants to be on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1109	It might be somewhat unparliamentary to compare the representative Langeland with a well-known fairytale figure, but the policy he advocates must be characterised as fairytale rhetoric. I could give you more examples of that. I think, among other things, what has emerged today in terms of strengthening nutrition funds, says theirs, in relation to what we don't like what you do, but we like their money and don't have any problems in a way to take that variant. Otherwise, I also think it must be the top of Ole Brumm mentality when it is said that this new power line between Sauda and Liastøl solves the problems of the powerful industry in the West, knowing that the power we have to import is highly polluting coal power and nuclear power from other countries. As long as our feet get to live, it's clearly like that in terms of the concerns SV likes to present in relation to climate challenges and nuclear power. Then the representative Langeland is also under attack on the Left and Christian People's Party. I think it might be in its place to focus a little bit on what we in the Government's proposal avoid building up. The representative called this criminal. Is the protection group also criminal, according to the opinion of the representatives of Langeland?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1118	I don't have anything against fairy tale characters. I think they're quite nice, in fact, and if they can also benefit themselves, it's great. The problem with the Right is that they didn't get along, as I tried to say in my post, but as the representative Meling did not get it either, the construction industry itself says that if one takes the right grip, one can save 20 Sauda extensions. It's a concrete case. So to this force balance discussion and that one has to import. Yes, we have to import. We must also build a cable to England with the policy of the Right. We're going to create a market that works, and it costs enormously with billions, but it's Right's strategy. Instead of e.g. investing in bioenergy in Norway, the focus on renewable energy, shall be an effort to import coal power and worse things. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1127	For the sake of the voters, it would be wise not to have too many fairy tale characters in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1130	You could say a lot about the Socialist Left Party, but in such cases they are at least predictable, they should have. They vote against anything that can remind us of value creation and development, and anything that is close to facilitating business interests. We have a power market today, and the party is allergic to everything that has to do with the market. They later appear as if they do not understand how this market works. We see, however, that the Socialist Left understands how this works, when they support production restrictions on the base to push up the oil price. When should SV understand that these are the same mechanisms that operate in the electricity market? When shall the lot cease bluffing that they are against high electricity prices, as they did in winter, all the time they actively contribute to this price increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1137	The President would point out that there is no one here who is deliberately bluffing, we can have different views on different issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1140	I would like to thank the Progress Party for their commendation for the fact that we have some political principle that we are following, and an ideology that we are behind. There are very few who have it today, and not least the Progress Party. It looks as if the Progress Party is creating a budget with the Government. Then it will take no more than one week to change the budget they have agreed to. In debates around the country, if there are questions as to why there is no money for it or that, they owe it to the Government. But actually, it's the very ones who have decided on the budget. Of course, this is problematic for batches that angle like the Progress Party. The market seems, it's said. Yes, it would have been! Of course, SV goes in to use the market when we can. Of course, we know that if we charge an electricity charge or a CO2 charge, it can help reduce emissions and reduce consumption. But we don't add up to a market system where it costs 40 cents per. kWh one day and NOK 1.50 the following day, because of the policy pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1149	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1152	When the parties in the Cooperative Government sat on Sem and wrote the energy chapter in the government statement, we agreed that we should follow up on what many politicians had said in the past, namely that the time for the large hydropower expansions is over. The matter we are dealing with today is a concrete follow-up to this recognition. We have balanced the need for new power into the market and a strenuous impact situation in the South-West, with important environmental considerations, by outlining important areas of the reformed development plan that both the builder and the NVE would want to be implemented. I note that the Committee is agreed on large parts of the development and modernisation in Saudi. The main issue is whether we should withdraw the so-called North Transfer and the Turkotal. The co-operation administration takes out the north transmission because we believe that it will involve itself in an almost untouched natural area with a high value for regional outdoors. These interventions will have a significant negative impact on nature protection/life in nature and the landscape in this area. By removing the north transmission, intervention is avoided in the vicinity of Åkrafjorden and Langfossen, which have landscape elements of high environmental value. This will preserve the extent of non-interventional natural areas in the Inner Etnefeld and the character of pristine natural qualities in this important area of foot tourism. The loss of the north transfer will be beneficial for areas close to the tourist trail and the cabin of the Tourist Association, which is used by many walkers. The co-operation administration has placed great emphasis on preserving areas that are important for open-air and foot tourism. Another important consideration is to keep a larger area untouched in its entirety, instead of taking out individual elements of the project spread throughout the mountain area between Hylsfjorden and Åkrafjorden. The Ombudsale is being taken out of the development plan because this is a popular tourist and cabin area for the Sauda people, and is being used in outdoors by many people. The area has a beautiful cultural landscape with high environmental quality. In this context, I would like to point out that the Directorate for Nature Management is opposed to the transfer of Åbodalselva, among others. because significant negative impacts on outdoor life and landscape have been identified. The river basin in the Buer region has special value. The establishment of pelvic inlets will reduce the non-interventional natural areas of the Inner Ethnic Mountains. Among other things, the wilderness area can be significantly reduced. There is little doubt that if one were to base purely economic reasoning, it would certainly be best to incorporate these two elements of the Sauda extension. But the Christian People's Party and the Government want to take into account other qualities when we design a sustainable policy for the future. Our proposal for an extension solution in Saudi is an expression of this. Earlier in the debate, it has been shown that a near-gathering region has opted for development of a size such as the NVE’s proposal. This is not the first time, nor will it be the last time, that local and central authorities disagree on what is best for the region isolated and nation-wide. As big-scale politicians, we have a responsibility to ensure that a comprehensive policy will ensure that the consideration of our descendants and important environmental considerations is also taken into account, while at the same time pursuing a policy of value creation and development of the region. The size will provide a concession for an extension and upgrading of Sauda that can provide industrial security and optimism for further value creation in the region late tonight. At the same time, the region is ensured that important landscape elements and natural values remain as they have always been. It is also important for future generations. I will also be allowed to thank the Workers' Party for their constructive signal that they will help secure a majority of the Government's policy if their own proposal falls under voting tonight. Finally, let me add a few brief comments to the two Document Nos. The 8 proposals of the Progress Party which form part of this debate. So far, there has been a great deal of agreement that the epoch of the major hydroelectric projects is over. This does not mean, however, that new hydropower will not be available in the future. In Document No: 8:71 requests measures for increased hydropower generation. Let me stress that, in my opinion, this has been preserved by measures already taken by the Government. The necessary upgrading and modernisation projects relating to existing power plants are set up, while emphasising on improving conditions for the use of mini- and small-scale power plants. For this reason, the Christian People's Party supports the annexation of the proposal in the document. At the same time, the Progress Party promotes in Document No. 8:69 proposal for clarification of power supply responsibilities and for ensuring the means to avoid rationalisation. It is my opinion that this too has already been taken care of by the Government. I refer here to letters from the Minister for Oil and Energy to the Committee dated 24 March 2003. On this basis, this proposal is also recommended, annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1184	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1188	It is always interesting to listen to the Christian People's Party, as among others. has said that the energy market has worked well this winter. And we'll also see that in the future. But I have two issues that have an environmental and industrial perspective. According to the Government, a target of 3000 GWh wind power has been set by 2010. With today's wind power technology, it is equivalent to 400-500 wind turbines, which are approx. 100 meters high. Where will the Christian People's Party place all these windmills? And how are the environmental interventions compared to these freaks, which are being slightly reduced in water at the very bottom. So to the industrial policy: the Christian People's Party actively opposes all proposals for the use of gas in Norway. What is the relationship there in energy policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1197	There was simply a lot of error in the question from Tore Nordtun. It surprises me a little bit that he, as a former member of the Energy and Environment Committee, can emphatically say that the Christian People's Party is opposed to absolutely everything that has to do with the use of gas in Norway. Tore Nordtun does not know that from the processing of the gas message. But we have a different focus on technology solutions than the Workers' Party has had. That debate knows Tore Nordtun very well. We believe that gas can in the future be a contributor to the power market, given that we are able to deal with this technologically in relation to the CO2 problem. The Christian People's Party has also not said that the market has worked well this winter. That's wrong. What we have said, on the other hand, is that from the deregulated market took place at the beginning of the 1990s, and in the future, on average, it has worked well, in the sense that prices have been lower than they did before. But we saw in winter, with the extreme weather situation we had, that the Energy Act is not robust enough to deal with the kind of problems and challenges, and therefore the Government has announced that it wants to review it in terms of adjustments and adjustments that can take care of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1204	The Christian People's Party Council, Einar Steensnæs, is apparently not so much concerned with the magnificent rogaland nature. Indeed, there is a great deal of natural interference from the oil and energy minister in his own country of origin. The epoch of large hydroelectric expansion is over. ‘In view of the natural experiences of future generations, there is a restrictive attitude towards further watercourse development and that we leave the vast majority of the watercourses that remain untouched,’ says the Sem Declaration. How then the state councils can recommend the development of Lingvangelva, Tengesdalselva in Suldal and Maldalselva and Sagelva in Saudi, is completely incomprehensible. The protective values in the watercourses are well documented, and if they are affected, the Sem declaration seems totally worthless. The question to the representative of the Christian People's Party therefore applies to the sentence that "the vast majority of the watercourses that remain shall remain untouched": Is it so to understand that these watercourses in Saudi and Suldal were the exceptions, and that it is now the end of the large hydroelectric expansions, after the Christian People's Party council has so generously sacrificed them in its own home country?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1216	I immediately began to wonder if this was a line to the Council of State. I think he will have good assumptions to be able to answer for his own part with regard to the Rogaland County, in connection with his own intervention later in the debate. I would like to reiterate to the representative Vaggen Malvik that I consider the proposal put forward by the Government as a balanced proposal in relation to the wishes and views of the extremes in this matter. It is balanced, and it takes into account nature and the environment. We're pulling out the North Transfer, we're taking out the Åbotalen, we're halving the proposal that NVE had put in, and that several parties, especially the Workers' Party, would like to go ahead in this case. We have managed to balance our environmental concerns, but have also recognised that we need more power in this area, to balance the power situation. That situation has not been taken into account by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1223	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1226	We've put a special force winter behind us. Already in October, it was clear that the water reservoirs had a dangerously low stock. Nevertheless, the power companies continued to drain for full and to produce for export until the new year. During the winter, we experienced a four-five-fold increase in electricity prices, and there was a risk of power shortage in parts of the country. Experience shows that rising electricity prices led to a reduction in consumption. However, the increase in prices was so great that many consumers and businesses had problems paying the bills in retrospect. No one wants to repeat this force winter, and everyone is now looking for measures that can prevent us from experiencing the same thing again. Both the power development in the Saudafjelles and the two Document No. The 8 proposals we are considering now need to be seen in the light of experience from last winter. Also another backtrace is important for the treatment of these three matters. The Central Party will recall that in recent years there has been a reduction in regional policy instruments. In addition, many municipalities have been given an increasingly tighter municipal economy. This has contributed to the fact that many members of the Interior have seen new hydropower development as the only opportunity for revitalisation and increased industrial activity. The Central Party wants to meet the needs of the Ryfylke population for increased activity, and is in favour of an expansion in Saudi Arabia that is slightly larger than the Government's proposal. The centre party weighs the natural and environmental interests differently from what the Government is doing and has therefore opted for a different development solution. The centre party emphasizes that Lingvangfossen, one of Rogaland's most powerful foss cases, has great experience from the fjord. It can play a major role in the future of tourism and tourism. Therefore, the Centre Party proposes that the Lingvang and Tengesdal watercourses be removed from the development plans. It turns out that an expansion of the so-called northern transfer appears to be not realistic if parts of the Åbodal watercourse are not being expanded at the same time. Natural and cultural values, recreational and open-air interests are linked to the Turkutal Watercourse, but under given conditions the Centre Party may accept the development of parts of this watercourse. A negotiated agreement has given room to build an important road link between Sauda and Etne. If a reduced power build-up solution is chosen in Saudi Arabia, the means are reduced by road. In such a case, the government must consider contributing to the financing of the road by state resources. So to Document No. The 8 proposals: The Storting has on several occasions expressed support for the increased use of micro and mini-power plants, but in many concrete extension cases it has proved to be a very complex process and procedure before new power plants are approved. The Group of the European People's Party supports the proposals No. 1 and 2, which has been raised in the case. The proposals relate to increased hydropower generation. Another area where there is a high potential for increased energy supply is in the transmission system. Studies have shown that the total loss of energy in the wiring harness can be up to 15 pst. Just as there have been few investments in new production capacity in the last ten years, so there have also been low investments in the network. In many places too large quantities of power are transported through too small networks. There is a question of whether there have been strong enough instruments to stimulate the improvement of the website. Compared to the large energy loss, there is a significant potential for an increase in refurbishment of the transmission system and the removal of so-called bottlenecks. I would like to address the proposal from the Central Party, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the SV, which is distributed in the Stortinget today. The proposal is related to the power supply issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1247	Hans Seierstad has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1252	I share a lot of the analysis that the Centre Party has when it comes to the deregulated energy market in Norway, which unfortunately Eivind Reiten and the Center Party were involved in running forward. But then it stops, because then the center part comes with the old-fashioned solutions, like many others here in the house: one has to build out more to bring down the prices, etc. But that's not the answer. The answer is that one must house with the energy one has, in a completely different way, and that is what is SV's profile. It is disappointing that the Centre Party does not follow up such a profile with the starting point they have, simply trying to reduce the damage. But then you get a grip on the wrong solution, not least when you drag and drop a drag and drop, which is what many people want to do to protect.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1259	I record SV's disappointment regarding the central party's position. In this case, we have clearly tried to strike a balance between taking care of the protection and the need, in fact, for the whole region to demand: a greater build-up of power in connection with upgrading and expansion. The centre batch, in line with the SV stands for, has in many respects been a driver for finding alternative solutions for energy consumption in Norway. In particular, bioenergy is an area in which SV and the Centre Party are united. It's going to be wrong to say that the center part here is kind of in a free fall. We still want to focus on alternative energy. At the same time, we should be aware that the kind of energy that we produce here, completely determined in the future, will have a different and greater demand than what we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1268	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1271	The left believes that we are failing our obligations to future generations if we allow ourselves to rage and erase nature that gives experiences that we who are here today, take for granted. The time of force-socialism in Norway is over, and the Left does not want any more controversial water-power expansions. This is a quote from the Party Program of the Left. In the setting, the Socialist Left Party has included a quote from the Sem Declaration, and then one will see that what is stated in the Sem Declaration, which is the political basis for the Cooperation Government, is taken out of its programme. It's been passed on to the Left. When it comes to the issues we are dealing with today, the Left has been against more power development in Saudafjella. This is because Rogaland is one of the states that has at least a percentage of wild land. Development of the Sauda Falls in line with the NVE proposal would have crashed one of the last major watercourses left in our country. This extension is now used as an argument for bringing up the employment in the Interior. However, in the view of the Left, it is quite wrong to use development plans as a pressure to be built, for example. road between Saudi and Etne. There are other tools we want to use to increase employment, both in the Interior and elsewhere. Saudafjella has been our last chance to take care of a piece of pristine nature. It has been a hard fight between many different interests. The developer has invested a lot of money into municipal nutrition funds, and there have been many press groups both here on the house and around to make us go in for this expansion at the expense of nature. When the Sauda River Trail Protection Group presented its proposal, option 2000, left chose to support it. We thought it was a balanced proposal in relation to the plans that were then ahead. Today, the Left will vote for the proposal in the vote from the Right and Christian People's Party. We see that the expansion proposal presented by the Government is not the first choice for the Left. But the expansion that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party want is definitely miles away from what the Left wants. We're glad that the government chose to take out the Obelisk and the North Transfer. By introducing requirements for minimum watering and residual watering, a negative result has also been defined in the proposed development. So the Socialist Left Party uses this as an attempt to create doubt about its environmental threat. And when the representative Hallgeir Langeland calls Left a force socialist, I don't know what to say. I don't think I should comment on it. Then he says that the environmental movement now has lost its threat to the Left. No, the environmental movement in Norway is emerging, they can both read and count, and they know that the Socialist Left Party and the Left do not have multiples for their environmental policies in some areas where they are some. But they also know that there are a number of people in this room who have wanted a much larger expansion. But with the Left's three government councils and two representatives of the Grand Council, we are convinced that the expansion to take place in Sauda is almost what the Left stands for, and will be to the least harm to the environment. This has been a theme that many people have been on. One has tried to doubt the Government and Government Party. But this has shown that here we're disunity across the board. In the middle of the Workers' Party there is a different view of this. This shows that the Left has been enabled for a good environmental profile of the project being run here. It wasn't our first choice, but it's still a heavily reduced expansion compared to what could have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1289	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1292	I have let the representative Vihovde escape in so many debates on energy and the environment that I now felt that the time had come to ask some questions. The left believes that when we don't support their first choice, we fail our obligations in relation to future generations. At the same time, the NVE claims that in 2010, with today's energy policy, we will lack 43 TW power in Norway. There will have to be reductions in electricity consumption, but there will also be imports of coal, imports of nuclear energy and imports of gas power. To appear as false environmental prophets is one thing, but does the Left really believe that it would be better for future generations to increase climate emissions in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1301	The leader of the Workers' Party, Jens Stoltenberg, has also gone out and said that the time for the large power development projects is over. This government, in which the Left is a member, suggests using alternative energy sources instead of building out all these fine waterfalls and water that lies there. We are investing in gas with CO2 handling – there are three concessions – we are investing in renewable energy, we are investing in upgrading small-scale power plants and repairing the bottlenecks that exist, to exploit the power that is already being produced today. Maybe we need some maintenance, and maybe we'll lose some power. We are investing in environmental funds, and we are investing in research related to alternative energy technologies, so that our future generations will get environmentally friendly renewable energy for what they need. But then we also have to take a grip when it comes to energy savings, and grab a grip to do something with those who are wasting electricity today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1306	In Rogaland almost all watercourses are built for power generation already. But this is obviously not enough destruction for the majority here on the Storting, in a situation where in most of the years we are net exporters of electricity, despite the fact that it is manufactured as if we are a country, a nation, which is energy bankruptcy. We're not. This is not consistent with reality. The Sem Declaration states this about the plans of the current Government on the watercourse front: ‘The epoch of large hydropower expansions is over. The consideration of the natural experiences of future generations calls for a restrictive approach to the development of watercourses.» I understand that these fine words are taken from the Party programme of the Left. This is no gentle expansion. It is a rage of Lingvangfossen, of Tengesdalselva, of Maldalsfossen and of Sagfossen. Here no future generations will be allowed to experience free nature. The left is the environmental party, they say. How is it possible to go in for a power build like this and at the same time call itself an environmental party? This is not consistent with reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1318	What the government has put forward is a half of what the NVE, as the builders, want, and we've had a strong pressure to do. It's a bisector. We've taken out the North Transfer, and we've taken out the Turkotal. There's a balance in this, and I actually mean that this stays inside, even if I see that there's some project here that probably left might have intended to take out. The representative of Langeland said that SV was willing to negotiate. Yeah, what would the S.B. negotiate? Would they negotiate it? What would SV like to add or remove new items? I might as well ask questions back to the Socialist Left if their environmental threats are the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1325	The representative of the Central Party, Hans Seierstad, has asked for the floor for a line, and we have to distribute the lines so that all parties have an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1328	When I listen to the debate here today, I am a little surprised at the political world, for there is certainly a majority in this Chamber for a greater expansion than the one that will result. We hear that the representative from the left clearly says that the left wanted to expand more in the first place. The right has given expression to exactly the same thing, and then I ask myself, is it so that there is one party in the government that is granted veto right in relation to all matters that go on energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1335	The representative Seierstad had a small mistake in his post when he talked about the fact that the Left too was for a larger extension. I'm assuming that maybe he's aiming at a different part than the left, because the left is actually opposed to a larger one. I could have thought that the Left had vetoed the Government when it comes to energy and environmental policy, but we don't. That's a good cooperation. But I want to say that the Left has got too much of its policy in what the Government delivers on environmental issues. There's a government base, and we use it for what it's worth to get the most out of the Left's policy. It's quite natural that we do that. Then I'm going to take back to my colleagues from the Right and the Christian People's Party that there might be a desire from the Center Party to give Left veto to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1349	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1352	This winter has shown with all due clarity that the energy nation of Norway has a supply problem. We export gas and import coal power. Now the Spring Lord has provided for the refilling of the drained warehouse, but it is of little help if the energy companies choose to sell the power they can thus produce, before the fall and winter come. The Coastal Party believes that we need to use the resources we have, both for self-sufficiency and power exports, in that order. Self-sufficiency comes first. There's been a fight about the Sauda expansion. The Coastal Party agrees with the Progress Party and the Workers' Party that the scope of the expansion should be greater than that proposed by the Government and will vote in favour of their proposals. It is said that we must protect the nature of our descendants, and that is in itself an honorable position, but a pipeline can be removed if we can in the future get sufficiently clean energy without the use of hydropower. For the time being, this seems to be part of the future. Enough pure power at a competitive price has been Norway's foremost advantage in our industrial development. The coastal party is concerned that the industry is being dismantled because changing governments have failed to keep the power supply running. We're worried that most people get a totally unpredictable private economic situation because of power failure. Clean energy from new sources is well and good. We need to support state investment in order to research and establish new clean power generation, but nothing is cleaner than hydropower. The situation in winter did not come unannounced. It has been clear for many years that our power needs cannot be met without new energy expansion. It is serious when Hydro shuts down jobs in Norway because they do not have the security of the power supply and the framework conditions that must underpin investment in more environmentally friendly melting plants production. Pollution is a global problem, and it is of little help to the global environment that industry is moving out and establishing itself in countries that do not have the same emission limits as Norway has. The working party and the Progress Party point to the negative in their comments by not initiating power generation based on gas. The coastal party does not just think that this is negative, but that it is very critical. In all other countries the gas from conventional gas power plants is considered to be clean. It is only in Norway that these power stations have been given the first name ‘strongly polluting’. It is a parody of environmental policy when we export gas to power production outside Norway and import nuclear and coal power. New transmission lines to an expanded power market do not give us access to more power, which is produced cleaner than what we can produce here in the country. It is consistently noted that gas power plant construction has been authorised, but it is not desirable to start construction until a cost-effective solution for CO2 management has been found. While we are waiting for this solution to develop in one of the countries that are now basing its energy supply on gas power, we are importing nuclear and coal power, while we and the Government are holding their hands in jail and seeing that the jobs in Norway are disappearing. The Coastal Party agrees that everything needs to be done to facilitate new skills-based jobs, but we cannot understand that phasing out today's industry is a good tool for achieving such a goal. Ensuring adequate power at reasonable prices is environmentally sound, and it is socio-economically correct. We have to put into practice the competitive advantages we have as an energy nation. The Coastal Party supported the proposal for a major expansion in Sauda, but at the same time we want to emphasise our view of power as a national joint venture that must not be sold out of the country. The company Saudefallen has the right to power for 30 years, but then the power plant must fall back into the community. It sees the Coastal Party as a clear prerequisite for new hydropower expansion in Norway. With regard to the proposals contained in the vote on Document No. 8:71, the Coastal Party will support the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party. So we live in a country on the globe where the globe has its party far north. A certain party says there's going to be people living in the houses. Yeah, we're gonna stay in the houses, but are we gonna sit in the houses and freeze? An energy minister said that if there are problems with electricity, we should go to the social office. Yes, it's tried, and I know what the result is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1376	Today, government parties say no to large parts of the world's most comprehensive and environmentally friendly renewable energy deployment development project. The working party has carefully assessed the consequences of an extension and upgrading of the power plants in the Saudi Mountains. We have assessed it in relation to environmental impacts and to the availability of energy that is needed. We've asked environmentalists, politicians and professionals if there's a better way to use energy than what we're in favour of in Saudi, but without getting answers, at least answers that are feasible in relation to price. No one can refer to or point to projects of this scale that are more environmentally friendly at a price acceptable to customers. Nevertheless, we hear that everyone who is opposed to this expansion is talking about lower power prices. Everyone knows, with the exception of SV, that the energy nation Norway has a power demand that is not met, if we have normal rainfall and normal temperature. The energy nation of Norway has energy sources to keep it going, but it has a power deficit that is starting to become dramatic. The customers have noticed. The prices we saw in winter will come again. They will be higher, and ultimately the continuation of the government's lack of energy policy will lead to the oil and energy minister having to introduce rationalization, not only for industry, as in winter, but also for private households. The situation in winter was dramatic. Norway was divided into four price ranges. Prices were sky high. A lot of power didn't pay the electricity bill, and the industry was encouraged by the government council to shut down the production. Workers were thrown at the door, without a real right to leave. Will the Saudi expansion solve this problem? No, not alone. But every decision taken has an impact on the energy situation. The Labour Party takes the situation we're up in, seriously. In March we were voted down by the government parties together with SV when we wanted to use the gas in Norway. Today, we're probably voted down by the same people when it comes to the Sauda expansion. It's a shame, but that's the way it is. A more misunderstood environmental policy should also be pursued for a long time if it exists at all. I don't understand that it's better to import coal power than to use the gravity of our water. I do not understand that it is better to increase the imports of nuclear power and thus increase the emissions from Sellafield than to bet on own water and gas resources. I don't understand that it makes more sense to import highly polluting energy from our neighbouring countries than it is to use our own resources for value creation, which is much better for the environment. The Labour Party would have a larger expansion than it seems we're getting a majority for. We regret that it was not possible for the Right to follow up on its promises of expansion, as it has emerged through the media. But that's the way it is. Right wins the privatisation debates in the Government, while the Christian People's Party and the Left win the energy policy. The working party will today ensure that there is at all an extension in the Saudafjellen. I'm glad, and I'm proud of that. It is a contribution to a better environment globally. Finally, I will again challenge the Socialist Left Party: Where will the party find almost 1 TW at a lower price – and which is more environmentally friendly – than through the Sauda expansion? Why not be open and tell the Norwegian people that SV has no policy that will lead to lower energy prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1402	Norway is a major energy nation. We have had, in a hundred-year perspective, large resources of the purest renewable energy source, hydropower. The development of hydropower has been a major driving force in our industrial development. In the last decades, we have also become a major oil and gas nation. Nature has been good to us. When we meet politicians and business people from other countries in this perspective and tell them that we've been running into power shortages in the last winter, and hence strong price jumps, they look at us with disbelief. That a country with such rich energy resources comes near the rationing of electricity, they refuse to believe! What does this tell us? Well, we do not yet have the power to establish a platform for the energy nation of Norway, where we not only deliver oil and gas to the continent, but also ensure that energy resources are used domestically in a good and sustainable way. We have also followed the Norwegian tradition of exporting the raw material in the energy field, with the result that we are largely missing out on the great value creation that further processing provides in most areas. I am pleased that the government has aimed to do something about this. I think the vast majority of people in this room agree that it is not appropriate, nor in the pact of good generation thinking, to expand our remaining pristine footfalls. The degree of disagreement between political parties as to the extent to which upgrading and extension of already existing power development areas should be implemented. Sauda is such a project. The area is already largely developed, but there are still significant potential quantities of power that can be extracted by upgrading and further, relatively gentle development. There is much to be said about political processes in such projects, and so is the case, but that the investigations are thorough, no one can doubt. The builder launches its development plans, which also have to take into account the environment and the likelihood of being accepted. The most important professional body in society, the NVE, assesses the application on the basis of its various aspects and makes its recommendation, often reducing its development in relation to the wish of the developer. The ministry goes further into the application and referral, and in this case has halved the NVE recommendation further. And the Committee on Energy and the Environment has been discussing and considering this matter for a long time, with not insignificant external impact from both supporters and opponents. When I am asked what I really mean in this difficult balancing question, I insist that ‘truth is not a bad alternative’. There is no reason to hide that the Right fraction in the Committee seems to have been the basis for a slightly larger expansion in Saudi Arabia than that provided by the Ministry. We believed that with low environmental pressures, we could not increase the amount of power insignificantly. In energy and industrial policy, I believe it is important, as in foreign policy, to establish as robust a majority as possible. That was why an overall government fraction in the Committee early decided to apply for a majority with the Workers' Party. But the other government parties have a different view on such issues, and when it became clear that the government would receive subsidiary support for its proposal, there was no basis for negotiation. That's what's called "magaplask" – I can live well with it. However, I would like to say that our conversations with the Workers' Party were constructive and were conducted in a positive tone. It is gratifying that the Government's proposal today is being adopted here in the Storting, a proposal that closes up to 500 GWh. It can be argued that this alone does not contribute so much to correcting the imbalance we have between supply and demand in Norway. Nevertheless, it is good that there has been a majority in favour of environmentally satisfactory development. Some would have less, some would have more. There is something of a policy nature that there has to be compromises between different views, and I refuse to be simply a postman for what's coming. I would also like to assess it on my own basis. A market-based system requires that increased demand can be balanced with increased supply. The Nordic market has worked well in the situation we have been in, although it is desirable that we become less dependent on rainfall. We should therefore invest significantly in other energy sources, establish a better cable connection to Europe, while stimulating energy saving. At one point I agree with SV in this case, and that is that in the construction industry there are many possibilities, and we should start to realize them. In the two Documents Nos. The 8 proposals that we are dealing with at the same time as the Sauda development are aimed at ensuring power availability and increasing the production of hydropower. I agree that we need to make it easier to deploy small power plants, upgrade old inefficient power plants, etc. But the important thing is that we provide greater access to other energy, while continuing to invest in more efficient use of energy. This means, among other things: that we should use natural gas. The construction of gas power plants where they can be the most profitable should be discussed with builders. Any input that can bring us closer to a solution to the CO2 problems of gas power should be stimulated. Maybe we should be more active there. We have an enormous potential for becoming an energy storm power. But we have to do that, and we have to provide good framework conditions. Businesses must be encouraged to bet. There are major challenges ahead of us if we are to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1430	After listening to the debate so far, I look dark on the future, and as usual, it is the Norwegian people who get the bill for what is being adopted here. Over many years, there has been a natural and steady increase in power consumption, while the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the SV have actively prevented the corresponding increase in production. The Progress Party has for many years warned that such a situation would arise if the necessary political action were not taken to correct the Norwegian and Nordic power balance. Despite these repeated warnings, many governments and large-scale governments have turned the deaf ear over to or strongly reduced all the power-building projects in recent years. In addition, the majority of the number of workers at the head has ensured a special Norse emission requirement for so-called greenhouse gases, resulting in an effective stoppage for the construction of gas power plants. However, the working party must be praised for being so honest that they write it in their comments in the Sauda setting. When the representative Rolf Terje Klungland says that the Workers' Party ‘would use the gas’, he must at the same time say that he does not want it to be CO2 emissions. And then, unfortunately, it is unrealistic, with the technology you have today and in the years to come. Symbolic arguments have often been used against power deployment in recent years, without the value of new clean force being seriously assessed against what has often been a minimal nature intervention. Instead of being imported from coal or nuclear power stations, the other parties don't care about dying. The winter crisis in the power market means that the Progress Party now believes – or at least hopes – that several of Storting’s development opponents, especially with the Workers’ Party at the head, have understood the seriousness of the situation and hopefully change their vision. But after hearing the debate so far, I do not think, unfortunately, that is the case. Since it is the Norwegian people who have to bleed financially for the cloudy electricity prices provided by the Workers' Party and the bulk of the population, we therefore propose that previously rejected expansion requests be reviewed. The salt mountain/blacklands extension, which was rejected in its entirety, and Upper Otta, which was halved, are some examples of such projects. Consumers have few opportunities in the short term to adapt to other energy sources. This is largely the result of policy choices. Increased flexibility in increasing the use of natural gas, fuel oil, district heating, etc. is desirable, but it will take a long time and require large investments. It is therefore important to facilitate conditions both in order to increase production and also in order to ensure security of supply by the transmission system operators. Security of supply needs to be improved, as we have suggested through the two Document Nos. The eight proposals that follow this case. We hope that the majority will take this inward and vote for these proposals, even if it doesn't look that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1447	On Friday, I said goodbye to Lingvangfossen. It was a strong experience to stand there in the trunk of the body, while the clothes were showered with the scabbard blue by the limbed foot. At the same time, it was sad – it was sad – to know that the foot that throws itself down from the mountain and down into the fjord, will soon be put in a pipe. It will adopt the majority in this Chamber today. This deprives all those who have not yet seen this fossen – and future generations – of the possibility of this experience. When I was there, I climbed all the way down to the river and drank of the water. How many of the representatives who are going to vote to put this foot in line have done the same thing? Have they known the taste of outer nature? And I want to ask the representative, Mr. Konglevoll, how she can vote after this trip to put this foot in touch, because that is what the Government's proposal, which the Workers' Party will vote for subsidiaryly, involves. On the other hand, if the defeats of environmental protection in the Workers' Party become too many, I know of a solution – based on my own experience – that I can safely recommend! As so many times before, the value of protection in this case has had to give way to increased power generation. Neither the Sem Declaration nor former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's assurances that the epoch of the large hydroelectric expansions is over proved to be worth the paper it was written on. On the detour to Lingvangfossen, the Workers' Party's deputy rapporteur in Rogaland, Eirin Sund, stated that at the next crossroads she would be on from the first day of to prevent further watercourses from being developed. I would like to ask if the Workers' Party agrees with its county rapporteur's candidate in Rogaland: is it so that at least the major watercourses are over and that Sauda is the last desperate spasm of force-socialism? Otherwise, I would like to admit that the word socialism here is somewhat malplaced: the surplus from Saudi will go straight into the pockets of American capitalists! We still have some nice watercourses left, which are not yet protected. The web in Northernland is one of these. Can the Workers' Party promise to keep its fingers off the barrel when it comes to power development in the Web? Can we preserve the web for our children and our granddaughter? Lingvangfossen in Suldal will soon become the Lingvang basin. The same fate shall suffer the Tengesdal watercourse, together with Maldalselva and Sagelva in Saudi Arabia. Although the government could get a majority with SV to limit itself to upgrading already affected areas, nevertheless the Christian People's Party Council chose Einar Steensnæs to ignore the well-documented values of protection and ignore the need to preserve the amazing nature of Rogaland – his own home country. I hope that the gauntlet will come back soon, and that he can now reassure us that at least the Wefsna will still live.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1470	The staging shall today both consent to a new concession for continued regulation of the Store Floor Watercourse and permit further power expansion in the Saudafjellene. By combining the necessary upgrading of the old power stations with a moderate extension, we are now getting more renewable power, where the Government has emphasised important environmental and nature protection considerations. The government has also stressed the strong desire of the community and region to expand in Saudi Arabia. However, it has been important for the Government to take the necessary account of significant natural and environmental interests. There's been a lot of commitment to this case, also in this room, I've registered, but when the dust settles, the government's proposal is actually the only one that can get the total majority. I am very pleased with that. It shows that the Government has put forward a balanced, good proposal. We have experienced a winter with a very tight force balance, which led to periods of very high prices. With a power supply that is entirely based on rainfall, we will experience such situations from year to year in dry years. The government's aim is to secure the power supply, so that there is enough energy in the market at acceptable prices. The government is proposing a new approach to energy policy. We have to become less dependent on hydropower and introduce new energy sources. In addition, we have to go away from a policy where we unilaterally try to get away from the growth of consumption. We need to dampen the growth and get ahead of the energy conversion. However, hydropower will be our main environmentally friendly energy source. Hydropower in the form of micro, mini and small power plants could also provide a significant contribution to new power. Furthermore, it is still possible to get a good deal more power out of our hydropower plants through upgrades and extensions without unacceptable negative environmental impacts. In the Sem Declaration, government parties are involved in order to make better use of existing hydropower structures. A completely necessary upgrade can be combined here with extensions without excessive environmental impacts in order to ensure good use of resources. The Saudi project is a good example. It will increase power generation while improving the difficult impact situation in this region. The government has chosen to withdraw the so-called Nordtransfer in its entirety. We thus avoid interference in the vicinity of Åkrafjorden and Langfossen. The government also chose to say no to the transfer of the Åbotenal watercourse due to the environmental quality of this area and the importance of outdoor experiences. A minority in the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, want a much greater expansion than the Government has proposed. Both parties want to take in the North Transfer. I am somewhat surprised at the total turnaround of the Workers' Party in this case, where the party management expressed a very strong rejection of the NVE's position as soon as it was available. So today, the Labour Party is promoting a proposal that is very close to the same position. However, I am pleased that the Workers' Party has found it possible to support the Government's proposals in a subsidiary way. The proposal for concession terms takes account of important environmental considerations relating to the new transfers. The government has focused on taking into account the landscape view from Hylsfjorden through minimum watercourses and residual watercourses. A good minimum flow of water, both in Lingvangelva and in Tengesdalselva, has been proposed that, among other things. Lingvangfossen will still be a great sight for the eye. In addition, the large river in Sauda will have a significant minimum flow of water, which in turn will be watered in a river that has been dried for over 80 years. This will allow fish to rise in the watercourse. The silage area, which is important in the context of open air, will not be affected. As I said, there has been a great local commitment to expand the Saudi mountains. The government has listened to these signals. I am pleased to recommend a development solution that contributes to increased income for the municipalities, more jobs during the construction period and securing existing industrial workplaces in the region that depend on secure power supply. At the same time, I believe that we have taken into account important environmental and nature protection interests in the area. This project will be a positive stimulus for the whole region. I therefore hope that this expansion can get started quickly. Finally, let me just briefly comment on two proposals presented at the beginning of the meeting, one from the Workers' Party at Sylvia Brustad and one from the Progress Party at Øyvind Waksdal. It is a proposal for a nutrition fund, government or non-governmental, as compensation for not being fully developed in line with the NVE's position. In that case, these proposals introduce a completely new principle in such cases. I have a great deal of understanding of the desire for a maximum fund locally for the purposes mentioned. However, it would break down established practice and give quite unfortunate signals if a reduced expansion would oblige the state to pay an uncircumcisionary nutrition fund when the project is reduced in line with the size of the enterprise. The correct thing to do will now be to await and refer to the negotiations to be held between the AS Sauda Falls and the municipalities concerned on the size of the nutrition fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1500	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1503	First, I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that our proposal is not the introduction of new practices. There's nothing there about government funding. That's why it's not right, what the Council of State said now. Secondly, this case is not a complete turnaround from the Workers' Party, but we want to take the power situation and the unacceptable high power prices seriously. We also want to take the employment situation seriously, not least the one in Saudi Arabia and the neighbourhoods there. For us, it doesn't seem like the Council of State is taking this inward. In fact, it's the Christian People's Party and the Left that make sure that we don't get any more expansion than what it's going to be in Saudi. My claim is that I don't know many projects that provide so much renewable energy with as few natural interventions as the case would actually be in Saudi. That's why we think this is an environmentally friendly project, which also gives us a lot of other things. If the Council of State agrees with this claim, why does it mean that there is an even greater expansion than what the Government has proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1512	As far as the nutrition fund is concerned, I am pleased with the clarification Sylvia Brustad has now given. But I want to refer to page 5 of the setting, where the Workers' Party together with the Advance Party and the Center Party states the following: ‘These members therefore believe that the road must be financed in other ways and that the State must also contribute to this.’ This is linked to the fund and the discussion of the fund’s arrangements. Unfortunately, even if the State were not to contribute, it would be contrary to current practice for the Storting to take the lead in the negotiations that are now to take place between the builder and the municipalities concerned. Then I'm glad it's going to be expanded. It is the government's balanced proposal that makes this possible. When the representative, Sylvia Brustad, asks why greater expansion would not be possible, and if not also the Council of State agrees that this could be realised, I would recommend that the representative, Mr Brustad, ask their own representatives, because it is quite right that the majority of the Workers' Party Group is in favour of this extended proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1524	I was not particularly surprised when the Council of State just before Easter presented the Government's position in the Sauda case, where he proposed a halved expansion, despite the fact that he from this pulpit today says in his post that he is in favour of extensions and upgrading of existing power plants. This shows that the Government is doing anything to prevent an increase in power, based on both water and gas. At the same time, you try to imagine the Norwegian people the exact opposite. Last winter, the Council of State stated that Norway should have the objective of becoming a net exporter by force. Of course, this is a good idea, but it's an impossibility as long as you prevent production growth. Will the Council of State explain whether he still has this objective, and, if so, what time perspective does he see it in?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1531	Norway, with its huge resources both in terms of hydropower, wind power, bioenergy and gas, should not aim at anything less than being a major energy producer. Today, the task is primarily to ensure an adequate energy balance in the Nordic market, also in relation to the fact that we have bottlenecks in the Norwegian market. I have notified the Stortinget that there will be a roll-out on security of supply, where different initiatives will be taken. There we also have to look at the framework conditions of the power industry, investment incentives. We have to look at simplifications in the power tax system. We are in the process of doing this in several departments. We will also propose raising the lower limit in the case of natural resource taxes and land-based interest taxes, so that it could mean that power plants below 5 MW could not be compared to natural resource taxes and land-based interest taxes. It could trigger very interesting small scale hydroelectric expansions that can be combined with important environmental considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1538	Prime Minister Bondevik was in Political Quarter today early and talked about different things, among others. the desire for closer cooperation with the Labour Party because it becomes more conservative. After all, the Government has cooperated with SV on some environmental issues. in the context of the gas notification and climate policy. But today, one might see a new trend, where the Labour Party and the Government Party go together to build beautiful waterfalls in Rogaland. My first question is: is it so to understand now that the Government wants to cooperate more strongly with the Labour Party in energy policy? In this case, there will be a signal both for environmental movements, the tourist associations and the Youth Party – in all parties – that they must start a mobilization. So my question is, is this what we're now seeing the trend?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1546	First of all, I would like to say that the government has, in various cases, recently had very good experience working with SV. That's what they're supposed to have. As far as environmental and energy policy is concerned, perhaps the Gas Communication was the main issue for the Government. There we had a constructive, good cooperation, and we believe that through it we were able to phase in the different initiatives in a very realistic, good way. We are still prepared by the Government to cooperate with SV, not only in energy and environmental matters, but in all matters where we can find a common platform. In the case of the Sauda extension, this was different, simply because SV was very clear on – it has also been Hallgeir H. Langeland – that they did not want to expand. The working party and the government parties wanted to expand, so it was natural for us to contact the Workers' Party. In addition, the leader of the Workers' Party had said that they saw it so that the time of the large hydroelectric plantation was over. That is why it was in accordance with the Sem declaration, and should therefore form a good basis for cooperation. We did not get that far, but that the Workers' Party subsidiaryly supports it, confirms that in this case we were closest to the Workers' Party. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1555	Let me draw attention to the fact that there were two representatives of the Workers' Party who voted in favour of the Government's proposal – two out of 43. It is disappointing that the Minister of Oil and Energy does not see the difference between GWh and environmental interventions when he attacks the Workers' Party in relation to the development today. In that case, if the Council of State does not see that difference, I would remind him that today he is in favour of an Alta expansion. The symbols of the energy question have to end. The situation is far too serious in relation to that. Does the Council of State believe that the development of Alta and what he now has a majority for today can be equated? I also want to say that when it comes to road and food funds, there are two different issues. One does not need to use nutrition funds to build a road, but one should look at a nutrition fund, for example. as it was done in connection with the Otra development.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1564	I do not intend to compare the Sauda project with other extensions, for example. Alta expansion. In retrospect, some and everyone have come to a different conclusion regarding Alta. I have noticed that, among other things. Gro Harlem Brundtland has expressed itself critical of the decision taken. But it's the past – I'd rather look forward to it. I have in no way attacked the Workers' Party today. I have said that I was amazed at the turnaround, and it must be allowed to say, when I was in a radio debate with the Labour Party leader, Jens Stoltenberg, had strong criticism that I was unclear, and that I was going against the NVE's position. Jens Stoltenberg was clocky in the NRK's News News Eighteen that the Workers' Party would go against the NVE's attitude. Now they close up to the same setting, and that's where I thought the Workers' Party did a complete turnaround. However, I am pleased – in order to be quite clear – that the Labour Party is now subsidising this well-balanced proposal from the Government today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1571	The representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, said in his reply to my previous reply that this should have been addressed to the Council of State Einar Steensnæs. And that's what I'm going to do. It is to me a great paradox that the Council of State is apparently not concerned with the magnificent nature of Rogaland, which he will now build by putting these four watercourses into pipes. I would like to see a deepening of the value of what is stated in the Sem Declaration, that the epoch of the major hydroelectric expansions is over. It is not a good argument that the words of the former Prime Minister of the Labour Party – if exactly the same – and the Government’s declaration are coincident. There's no argument for going in for a big hydropower expansion. The question is, what about the remaining watercourses, what about, for example, the Wefsna in Northernland – now it means that the epoch is really over when these rivers are in contact?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1580	I am pleased that the representative Ingvild Vaggen Malvik has seen something of the magnificent nature of Rogaland. She's been drinking from Lingvangelva, I see. I've been there myself, and I think I dare say I'm the one in the hall who knows that nature best. Together with Hallgeir Langeland and some others I have walked Skaulen – five hours up and four hours down. I have also skied, and I know this terrain very well. And I admit that it has been a difficult matter for me as an oil and energy minister. There are large, important nature conservation values involved. But in this case, we have proposed an extension where I think it is important to give priority to the broad public interest and the interests associated with those watercourses, which have great value, but which nevertheless do not have the same broad public attention. As for the remaining hydropower projects and the falls, of course, it is irresponsible for me to start suggesting anything there at all, but I can promise Stortinget and the representative Vaggen Malvik one thing: this will get the government's great attention. We want a high threshold to expand new large hydropower plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1587	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1590	In many ways today we are facing a classic debate. There is complete agreement that we are going to be running with the upgrading of hydropower, and we are going to try to get the most out of it, based on the situation that Norway is today. Then the question is what's going to be affected here, and what's the extension? The central point is, of course, that biodiversity can be taken care of at the same time, and can we take care of the values of experience? I want to say that Sauda is in many ways a different project than what you've had before. I want you to get into this project thoroughly before you really draw the conclusions so bastant, and among other things. talking about large hydropower expansion. If you look at the Sauda extension, most of it has to go into tunnels. You have to take the water in a different direction, and you also have to have watering in the trunks that are there today, but a smaller flow of water at certain times of the year. That's how the concession exists, and you have to take note of that. Many people say that this is not right, but I want people to go up in the Skaulen area afterwards. The Skaulen area is not affected at all, for there shall be tunnels below. I've been talking to many Sauda residents who are incorrigibly happy that Storelva, who has been most drenched for many years now, and who go through Sauda, now will arise as a really good river and with new fish in the river. That's why this expansion has other ingredients in it, and that the opinions were so bastant in one direction or another, I find very strange. Then I hear in posts after posts in the hall that you talk about hydropower as – I'm sorry, President – a curse for the country. What has traveled the country after the war, built industry, created employment and put our welfare society in place? Yeah, it's hydropower expansion. What's going on in the Sauda community today, and what parts of the Greatness are putting out of the system altogether? Well, there are two county municipalities, there are many municipalities in the region, business, etc., who say unequivocally yes to this expansion, on a larger scale than the Government has proposed. Does this mean nothing? For us in the Workers' Party, this means something, because we want to be part of building a society in there. So they say that this is a big expansion, which I was in the past. We who come from the area know a little bit about expansion. We know about Röldal–Suldal, we know about Ulla–Fører – major expansions. Has this been an accident for the area and for the country? Can't people go into these areas at all now? Are there black areas destroyed? Not at all. People have been and are happy with these expansions. It has given us access to and access to nature in a completely different way, and the expansion philosophy that has been there has been enriching. I think we should have this with us in our debates. Then you talk about using less energy, and you don't have to feed the industry, etc. energy. Norwegian industrial policy, with the government we now have, rests on the ground. Nor do we use energy production in gas in Norway. Then we're going to add a big cable from the West, also from Rogaland, and to the United Kingdom to import back an energy we've exported – to fire up the gas power plants! And then the government and the other parties go against adding gas to the Grenland and Trondheim areas, the industrial areas of our country. And then you say that you should build 500 windmills, but you have not taken a position where they should be. I can promise my good colleagues that there will also be protests in this area. We need to take political action that also shows the future of our large energy nation, we need to put industrial policy in place, so that there can be jobs and welfare for most people – and that has been a blessing so far for our nation. New grips have to be taken, it's clear. I'm just going to end by saying one thing. This hydropower expansion is also different in one more area, it is reversible. And if it were to be that way that we'd come to the idea that this isn't going to happen in 20 years, you can take away the coal mines. This expansion is reversible, as I've shown.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1607	This has indeed been a matter of long preparation for many years, and everyone, also locally and regionally, has agreed on several things, including: the benefits of upgrading the Sauda facilities and the value of the Sauda community for both the civil engineering and operational period, as well as the benefits of some refurbishment for the country and region’s energy supply and for the economy of the upgrading project. The degree of new deployment shall then be balanced against the necessary and desired protection. The various proposals for expansion in Saudi reflect how difficult it is to define such a balance, but at least I am pleased to be a member of a party that takes the task of finding such a balance and not relying on extreme solutions. For my part, I am also pleased that at an early stage in the case development, one of the largest remaining pristine falls, readily accessible and visible to all who travel along Åkrafjorden and E134, and in my opinion part of the souls of the people of Haugaland. In particular, in view of the Langfossen, it must be important to follow up on this extension case that the watercourses not now included are included for full protection assessment at the next roll-out of the protection plan for Norwegian watercourses. Although Saudi development is a modest contribution to the national energy balance and hardly changes the electricity price in the short term, for local and regional interests, it has complicated the matter of having an energy deficit — or, in fact, a power deficit — in the Haugaland. This is also apparent in the position where the majority of the committee writes that: ‘is aware of the difficult impact situation in this region, such as: means that Statnett has entered into agreements with the power-intensive industry to disconnect during difficult periods. Such a situation is unsustainable in the view of the majority and must be corrected as soon as possible’. The Haugaland and Sunnhordland are one of the country's heaviest industrial areas, and examples of what the power deficit can lead to are that it will affect in particular the operation, modernisation and, in particular, the further development of Hydro Aluminium installations on Karmøy. I therefore also pay particular attention to the Committee's comments from the Right and Christian People's Party, where a ‘refers to the Government’s broad strategy to strengthen energy supply and to make it less weather-dependent. This involves the release through saving and new renewable energy sources, increased use of gas, better use of existing hydropower structures and increased use of small power plants’; and one would like to add: further job creation. I therefore hope, for my part, that the Council of State can confirm that, through its other energy supply measures, the Government will prevent the deficit in the region from becoming the bottleneck and the decisive factor for the further development of industry in Haugaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1631	Sauda is a beautiful city inside the Saudafjord. Especially nice is the spring, when the mountain is still white and feather blue and shiny. Sauda is a place where people will live if they hope otherwise. An important factor for busses, like any other place, is that there are adequate safe and good jobs. This includes: This is what it is about today. It is about the future of a small community that needs the jobs, the income and the vitamin injection to build up. The representative of Langeland said in a final comment in a debate we had in NRK Rogaland, that he was busy mountaining the Sauda nature. My answer was that I was and am more busy rocking the Sauda community. In addition, it is my real overtone that it is possible to combine the upgrading and further development of the Storevässlästre and further power development of Saudafjella with the maintenance of the Sauda nature. At the same time, upgrading will provide clean and renewable energy. And if future generations come up with something else, it's both the law and the possibility of turning around. When questions of expansion or protection in this area were addressed at the beginning of the 1990s, I was one of those who thought we had to think about before we built up more, especially in Rogaland, which is relatively the state that has built out the most water power. The process that led to NVE's proposal for development has been long and extensive, and as politicians in Rogaland we have been involved in the process many times. Process has overestimated my inability to expand because it exerts severe force, not least in the region because this force is pure and renewable because it provides jobs in an area threatened by relocation and provides local sub-financing for an important road because it can act as a positive injection for the local environment At the same time, it takes care of nature. Of course it does. Otherwise, local and regional government would not have been in favour of development. They wouldn't have gone in for a rapture of that nature, primarily of its own benefit. In my opinion, NVE's alternative is a good one. The NVE has not been in favour of full development in relation to the application, Saltåna and Langfossen have been taken out of the project. The working party's main proposal here today is to start from the NVE's setting, but to take out the Åbotale. It's a piece of saudabows and the people who live around them, and they're also very happy with it. Such a development is a modernisation and extension of existing power plants, not a new power development. This is in line with the Labour Party's policy. I don't think that Jens Stoltenberg's candidacy as Prime Minister is particularly heavy cork in Saudi or Suldal or Odda or Etne or anyone else who supports the solution that is our primary. Today's decision, which we support subsidiaryly, gives only half as much power as NVE's option. It's a no thanks to almost 0.5 TWh pure, new power. This is to say no to many jobs, especially in the short term, but also in the long term. This is to say no to a strong local contribution to the road to Etne, another measure that could have increased the desire and ability to stay and work in Saudi. And that's trying to oversee local government powers. I have to say, when I hear the council here, that he has listened to local recordings, that he cannot have listened much to the locally elected representatives in Odda or Etne or Sauda or Suldal, nor to the county council, nor to the social partners. I hope and believe that people in Saudi and Suldal and these other municipalities who have to live with the consequences of the decision here today will notice what has happened in this room today. Not only is it about giving this area a decisive handset for them to develop further, but it is also about taking local democracy seriously. I hope, of course, that the Sauda community will survive this somewhat puzzling decision that will be taken today. But I am disappointed that the government party is not even willing to repair the damage by going in for a nutrition fund, and saying that we have to co-finance the road with government funds. Pure water power is good environmental policy. It is also good environmental policy to take care of communities such as Sauda – a beautiful city within the Saudafjord.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1665	There are starting to be some representatives who sign up for three-minute posts. The President will only draw attention to the fact that what is to be said in the 3 minutes should be important. It's a long case map today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1668	We are dealing with three issues in this debate, and I would like to start my article by quoting from the setting of one of the Document Nos. The eight proposals that we are dealing with. Here, the majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party, states that: ‘The potential of future hydroelectric power expansions in relation to the value of securing the remaining natural areas means that the epoch of new large hydroelectric power expansions is over. In view of the natural experiences of future generations, there is a restrictive approach to further watercourse development and that we leave the vast majority of the watercourses left untouched". I would like to underline this today. I think it is gratifying – and important – that such a broad majority in the Grand Duchy agrees on this principle. Unfortunately, the debate here today shows that when it comes to concrete power deployments, it is not as easy to put the foot down – it is not as easy to agree on what is actually a large hydropower expansion. And of course, we can never make a fasit on such a question. However, I believe quite clearly that what the Storting will adopt today is far more than just an upgrade and a small extension. When we discuss what's big and what's small hydroelectric expansion, I agree with those who say that we can't calculate it just based on the number of GWh, we also have to evaluate the natural interventions. And in the proposal that the Storting will adopt today, there are four watercourses that are now completely untouched: Maldalselva, Sagana, Tengesdalselva and Lingvangelva. On Friday last week I was so lucky that I took part in a trip that DNT arranged for Hylsfjorden to Lingvangfossen. Lingvangfossen is next to Månafossen Rogaland's most powerful footfall. In the Verne Plan Committee, seven out of eight representatives argued that the Lingvangs and Tengesdal watercourse should be protected, but because the NVE's representative went against it, unfortunately it did not. But in the NOU from 1991, it was demonstrated that eleven had very high protection value in relation to both botany, cultural heritage and outdoor interests. I'm not going to hide that I wish that the Storting and the Government in cooperation could save this fox. We could get to that and at the same time have an extension that in GWh would be greater than what we are adopting today, based on the option that the DNT, the Naturverkörbundet and the Norwegian Hunters' and Fishers' Association launched while the Stortinget had the case for treatment. The reality today is that the Government gets its proposal through. Because as long as the government stands on its side, it's going to be like that with the composition we have in the Storting today. SV will always be clear for something smaller, the Progress Party will always be clear for as much as possible. The Workers' Party concluded after two group meetings, and the majority are in favour of taking in the Nordtransfer. I disagree. So, after discussions with the government parties, we decided that we should support the proposals of the government parties in a subsidiary way. The representative Siri A. Meling, the main person of the Right, said that many in the Chamber are not satisfied with what the House will adopt today. That's right. But to me, it is, after all, positive that there will be no expansion in the Åboden Valley or in the Ethnic Mountains. As a result, the Stortinget has in some cases put the brake on, and we are today adopting an extension of half of what the NVE proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1690	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1693	The first application for further power development in Saudafjella – so-called Plan-97 – would provide an annual production of 1 120 GWh. During the examination of the application, the NVE recommended that Langfossen and Saltåna be taken out of the plan. After that, annual production would be 970 GWh. Although the Government's setting was not high, the Committee chose to raise a perception of Saudafjella in September 2002 in order to avoid snow problems. The Committee was aware of the NVE's position and, in addition, detailed information was provided on protection concerns and various development options. At that time, it was natural enough not to have any opinion about the Government's setting and rationalization. Nevertheless, several representatives issued opinions to the media. Without knowing the Government's position, I indicated that if partial development was allowed in relation to the NVE's recommendation, it would not have to be done by allowing applicants to make partial development within the whole area of the application for development. Such a solution would have intervened in the entire area, while the economy of the project would have become very poor. The government has chosen a solution for development and upgrading that is good both business and socio-economic, and at the same time is a large area within the areas applied for, excluding new development. So the government has put forward an attitude that takes into account both the protection interests and the development of a good economy. Let me do something about what the decision today will mean. Of the 970 GWh/years set by the NVE, the government proposed to take out the rest of the North Transfer, which could give 375 GWh/year, and the Åbotalen, which could give 105 GWh/year. However, the government's proposal will be 490 GWh/year. The following watercourses have been taken out of the government's proposal in relation to the NVE's proposal: for the north, it is Krusselva, Simlenut, Setterdalsbotn Aust, Sæterdalsbotn Vest, Sotakoven, Sandvassfossen, Deletedalsselva including Steinavatnet and Tindatjørnbken. In the Åbodenal are the following savings: Kvanndalen, Fossdalen, Reinakvam/Tverråna, Viaelva. In addition, the NVE took out Vaulo/Langfossen and Saltåna. Besides, as mentioned earlier, the Skaulen area is not included in the expansion. In addition, new minimum watercourses and minimum watercourses have also been introduced in the extension area. The overview I just provided clearly shows that the setting contains both protection and use, which is perfectly aligned with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1708	As has been said from the Chair several times today, hydroelectric power development is in practice environmental protection. Think, the big community could get about a TWh about the Workers' Party's proposal had been agreed in connection with the Sauda expansion. But the majority today land on an extension of about half. It's a paradox for me, which comes from a valley where all the power expansion occurred at the time we just built the country – the time when the word environmental protection was not found. I don't think about what Inland-Noreg would have looked like if we hadn't had the income from power development. In the current expansion, the environment is in focus – it will be taken seriously. Norway has hosted international awards to take environmental considerations into account in recent years. I feel absolutely certain that the same thing would happen in Saudi if one had received a reasonable exploitation of the natural resources, as the Labour Party had planned. Environmental activities say no to everything, but I call for realism in the alternatives. In my opinion, he is totally absent. And the power consumption increases every year. The way to go is therefore not to say no to upgrading and less expansion, nor to increase the power price. Last winter gave us an example of serious cases when prices exploded. I had expected a much more realistic approach to the challenges we have to the long, cold winter. The consumption of oil, nuclear power and coal power will increase in the years to come, if we do not use our clean energy in an environmentally correct way. As we have seen, we still have power socialists, no good today – we believe that already developed watercourses should be better exploited. They don't have a good day in Sauda either. They had wanted NVE's eco-audited extension, the same as both Hordaland and Rogaland county municipalities did. The decision of the Stortinget today does not respect local democracy, nor does it respect the views of employees and business organisations. I'm sorry for that. I just felt that I had to express frustration – on behalf of the Saudi community and myself as a force-socialist – about the positions of the special interests in relation to the environmental challenges of the nation, but also in relation to the force deficit we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1721	It's been 33 years since Mardølfossen was put in a pipe. This expansion led to the first major civil disobedience actions in Norway against hydropower expansion. Today it is likely to be decided to pipe Lingvangfossen and destroy four pristine watercourses. The council said in its statement that Lingvangfossen would still be beautiful with a little minimum water supply. I don't know if the state council has been in Mardøla and seen the tourist fox. But let me say, although I'm not sure if it's a parliamentary expression, that it's a castrated natural pearl we see there. The same thing is to be done with Lingvangfossen. It's sad to stand here and know that we could have saved four pristine watercourses. They could have been saved, they wouldn't have had to be destroyed. You could have gotten the same amount of power without it. What we've been witnessing in the hall today is the biggest environmental backlash in Norway's history I've seen playing from one party. And it's serious. With an honest exception, the representative Synnøve Konglevoll, the representatives of the Workers' Party have jumped as pearls on a string on the speaker's chair and performed quite traditional force populistic posts. It's been 22 years since Alta. Before and after the Alta expansion, the view of hydropower expansion changed. Even then Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland later said that the Alta expansion was unnecessary. In the debate we have had in the Chamber today, the Labour Party has acted in such a way that the debate should be believed to have taken place before the Alta development. It has been like turning the clock back 22 years in time. And it's sad with such a backlash. We have agreed with the Workers' Party that the time of the large power builds is over. There doesn't seem to be any such agreement anymore. When I hear the representative Nordtun explain the hydropower development's blessing to the country, yes, I would say that he is very close by asking Jens Stoltenberg to withdraw his statements. If there are such blessings as Nordtun says, they must make sure that there are many new, large hydroelectric installations in the future. And if that's what the Workers' Party means, you'll have to take care of it. For history's sake, to underline that backlash, it is heard that the Rogaland Workers' Party four years ago went to the election that it should not be expanded, and at least not the most protective of the watercourses, the Lingvang/Tenges valley stretch, would be destroyed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1740	The area we are talking about today has been used for power generation since 1919, and the application now concerns the upgrading of existing power plants as well as expansion in the form of new transmissions without new control systems. It is planned to transfer watercourses that have not previously been used for hydropower generation in order to ensure better use of resources. This is the important thing that we have with us. This will help to strengthen the Norwegian power balance and improve the situation in the region. This project is very important for Rogaland, the Interior and Saudis in particular. This will include, inter alia: lead to a strengthened local economy and stimulate increased activity in the region, both industrially and otherwise. The intention of both high electricity prices and workplaces meant that the Workers' Party wanted a greater expansion than the Government's proposed. One might wonder why the government wasn't interested in a larger expansion, that's what the Workers' Party initially wanted, 850 GWh. This also says a part about the industrial policy that this Government has, or, to put it another way, doesn't have, i.e. lack of industrial policy. An expansion of 850 GWh had not become a scandal in terms of natural interference, as I know. The Norwegian power-intensive industry is among the most energy-efficient and environmentally friendly in the world. Our powerful industry operates in an international market with strong competition. It is therefore important and essential that Norwegian authorities provide for long-term and predictable framework conditions. Without the necessary political intervention, there is a risk of even more flagging off activities from Norway. Is that what you want? As long as there is demand for products produced in an international market, production will appear in other countries with completely different emission requirements and a completely different and more polluting energy production. We must avoid this at all costs. The Labour Party, together with the government parties, has landed on the development option available. It's better to get an extension now than nothing. That is why, as I said, the Labour Party has taken the option that exists today. So, finally, Heidi Sørensen said instead that Tore Nordtun had stated that hydropower expansion was a blessing. Yeah, if you look around the country, the industry we have in District Norway is based on hydroelectric expansion. It's been a blessing for District Norway, and it's a good district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1755	The first concession for hydropower expansion in Sauda was given in 1914. Foreign capital was taken to Sauda and many other communities along our fjords. In retrospect, it is alarming to record the balance made between capital forces and a law guaranteeing national and local interests. It is far from the foresight that characterizes our ancestors, the short-term consumer mindset that many in our generation in retrospect will be blamed for. The centre party will have long-term power contracts for the power-consuming industry. The Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right have rejected it. The centre party is responsible for an energy policy in which we use mini- and micro-power plants, waste heat, bio-energy and heat pumps and equip wiring networks and existing power plants. The Central Party will have a district policy where SND, local food and transport funds and national transport plans will help both to take care of today’s jobs and to develop new business and better communications. The centre party will be able to use the remaining phosphanes as a basis for well-being, recreation and business. In Saudi, they have once again stood on the barricades for their own existence. The centre party has set up to prevent the closure of hospitals, the disappearance of boat routes and shoreline charges, in order to ensure a better concessional power price, an extended relapse and a better municipal economy. Today, the threat for next year is the loss of differentiated employer fees, which together means minus 22 million. kr for Sauda, Suldal, Etne and Odda. People in Ryfylke have now been subjected to a strong pressure. In Inner Russia they have a lot of the hydropower potential of 30 pst. which is not built in Rogaland. St. pp. No 52 is a lot of reading. The hearing authorities have been carefully referred. A clear image of a society is drawn that knows that power development is a short-lived one, a new one for a local business period. Built with national tourist road status, it is necessary to sacrifice some of the lookouts to secure more jobs. I have to come back to the rest of a new post, but let me finally say that we were very surprised that the Government recommended the development of Lingvangelva and Tengesdalselva, and I have to ask the Council of State: how can he take such a responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1768	This debate has shown that there is strong commitment, but the debate also confirms that the Government's proposal is the only realistic one that can create a majority in the Chamber. We've listened to the local environment, but the local environment has also changed its mind. Several representatives who have taken part in the debate with a high level of commitment to development have in the past been strongly opposed to development. So the positions change. The Government has considered that the Government's proposal provides a good balance and a realistic approach to the balance between energy and the environment. Let me also tell the representative Starrfelt that state funds for an industrial fund would be contrary to established practice, as we have explained. I have both great goodwill and understanding for the purpose, but I am obliged as the responsible state council to make the Storting aware of the consequences, and it is the Stortinget that makes decisions. I must also be allowed to inform you that Rolf Terje Klungland also participated in this trip to Skaulen, in order to give justice to everyone who took the big trip. Then to Finn Martin Vallersnes. As regards the power situation, both the Sauda extension and the proposed 400 kV line cable project in the Hylsfjorden area will help improve the power situation. Here we have a bottleneck issue that is important to address. I consider the Sauda extension an important impact measure next to the new 420 kV line, which is now being treated in the NVE, but where there is something left in relation to complaint handling. Then I would like to mention the proposal from Hans Seierstad. There is a proposal on case No. 6, which is dealt with in conjunction with this case, namely on a plan for upgrading the transmission system with a view to reducing energy losses. I understand the purpose of the proposal. I want to remember the Storting about the announced cancellation message. However, in the case of such plans, I point out that the Storting has adopted a system for setting network tariffs, which is intended to contribute to efficiency and reduce network losses, and it is through the tariff that it forces through such efficiency measures. As this proposal is designed, it will clearly break with today's legislation, as the NVE has been given, where they are obliged to look at the whole of the network and the efficiency of the network.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1783	The Stortinget is then familiar with Rolf Terje Klungland as well. This will, of course, be duly recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1786	When I hear the comments from the representative Sørensen, I understand that SV is very disappointed today. You can understand that, because SV doesn't get any excitement about not expanding anything, and I'll say, lucky for that. This frustration then affects us in the Workers' Party, and we are accused of having turned the trill around in this matter. That's wrong. But we take, unlike SV, the situation of power deficits and the high power prices seriously. It's no use laughing crocodile tears one day and the next day voting against everything that has to do with expanding power. Very well known, SV will not have gas power, SV will not have hydropower expansion. SV will have some renewable energy, and we don't disagree about that, but in the truth, it won't solve the huge gap we now have between what we use and what we produce. Then SV gets to say that they're at higher power prices, but don't blame other parties for that. What Jens Stoltenberg said in his New Year's speech as Prime Minister was the following, and I quote, because I think it is necessary: ‘The value of pristine nature is increasing. We have now come to the conclusion that the time for new large hydroelectric power plants in Norway is over.» Sauda expansion is neither new nor large in terms of traditional nature interventions. But it is great in terms of more renewable energy, environmentally friendly energy, and it is important in relation to the challenges facing the Sauda community and the municipalities and the region around it. The fact is that the Workers' Party's proposal for upgrading in Saudi is largely about upgrading. It is about modernisation and it is about the extension of existing installations. It is, to a large extent, an extension that takes place on nature's own premises. The North Transfer, which we in the Workers' Party are proposing to add, is an area where there is already a great deal of power development. We don't build up the river Åbodal, Langfossen or Saltåna, but we want something to happen in the Sauda community. We want people and industry not to experience such a winter again. We want people to let go of such unacceptable power prices. So someone says yes, but this won't mean anything in the big context. I very much believe in the expression'many streams of little ones make a big mistake'. Of course, that's the same thing here. But if you're going to say no to absolutely all the expansions in all the areas, we're not getting any more power. Then the electricity prices will increase and the deficit will increase, and we will have to continue to import a lot of coal power and nuclear power. It can't be good either for the environment or for other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1802	New power populists have been on the pulpit since I was last here. I am happy to have the opportunity to elaborate on a very central point in this matter. It's about the power balance. Let me take a shorthand to the representative Onarheim, who could almost speak here on behalf of the Workers' Party when he describes his understanding of the force balance. It's about balancing,' said the representative Onarheim, the increased demand with increased access. When we call that force balance, it's because it has two sides. It has a page called access page, new power, and then it has another page, which to date has hardly been mentioned in the debate today, called consumption page. Then Onarheim had forgotten, and then the notorious Sylvia Brustad forgets. It is a very important part of the backlash that environmental and energy policy has taken place in the Workers' Party. It was refreshingly delicious when we heard on the radio a few weeks ago an insurgent Thorbjørn Berntsen making a more powerful contribution to my vision than what I might be able to get on the platform here today. Then he just said that now we have to focus on getting hold of the consumption side, because there are the big things like monks. We have a consumption trend in power in Norway, which means that we increase consumption by approx. 2 TWh per year. That means that the expansion that we are adopting today will be eaten after three months – three months! For three months of increased power consumption, we're going to destroy four pristine watercourses and some of the finest foxes we have. With all due respect to report – it is pointless to discuss that this is important in the force balance. What's important in the force balance is the consumption side, and the most important thing we can do, the most strategic approach we can take, is to make sure that we get water-borne heating in Norway, which makes people not dependent on electricity for heating. It's just here in the country, and not in any other country in the world, that people are. Had we had had a transition to a more flexible energy system, with waterborne heating, we would not have been in the terrible situation that we were in this winter, with so swinging power prices. Sylvia Brustad also knows very well that SV is an honest party. Every year we've gone in to increase the electricity charge, because we're going to reduce the consumption of electricity and make the new renewable energy sources more profitable, and not least make the transition to what's the big solution for the future, waterborne heat, more profitable. Then I must say I am terribly pleased that the representative Brustad quoted from Stoltenberg's New Year speech, because with an honest exception from the representative of Konglevoll, it is the only environmentally friendly thing that has been said by the representatives of the Workers' Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1814	It is clear from the hearing authorities that there is work and communication that is the point. It is paradoxical that in two days' time there will be a lack of will in this room to exploit the unemployment rate and the available equipment to connect hands and equipment with the strong desire both in Saudi and many other places, for better roads, for both population and business. It is a paradox that a building that has a road that is considered so valuable that it becomes a national tourist road, finds it necessary to limit these natural experiences along the way, in order to ensure a new activity. Both several hearing authorities, the NVE and the Government are clear on the environmental conflicts. The importance of allowing future generations to experience the Lingvang/Tenges valley migration as it is today is for the Centre Party. Lingvangfossen is unique. There are good reasons why both the municipality of Suldal, the municipality of Rogaland and others in previous rounds have not intervened in this area. It points to great values of experience, from fjords, research and reference areas, waterfalls associated with cultural memory at the foot of the fox. We were very surprised that the government recommended the development of Lingvang/Tengesdal, Lingvang, which is thus called the inner fillet itself, with great natural, cultural and outdoor values. The majority of the population’s lack of commitment to active district policies and the strengthening of communications mean that the Centre Party finds it necessary to partially fulfil the strong desire from local teams for new activities. The meanings are pretty much more shared locally, too, than they are target drills from the Sauda project and from the municipality of Sauda. There are local people who have been actively involved in protection groups and open-air organisations and who have contributed to the long-term impact of development. So we now take in the North Transfer and Lingvang/Tengesdal and also accept partial expansion in the Åbotalen under certain conditions. This is a case that has been going on for many years, and which has been better from an environmental point of view when it relates to the way the development is now going to happen. But I still don't think the Council of State has answered well enough what it is that he could afford the historic decision, to build out Lingvangfossen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1827	What makes the matter special in relation to the nutrition fund and the decision that the Workers' Party has made here today, I will link up with a previous treatment we have had here in the hall. For example, it can be linked to concessions given to the Otra watercourse. There was an extension, in my memory, where they built out 180 GWh and got 30 million. kr in food funds, following a decision taken here in Stortinget. Then I think it's going to be a little unfair in relation to the Sauda community, which was initially satisfied with the agreement they had made about full development in order for them to build roads, that they should not get a similar nutrition fund, for example, as was given in the development of Otra. Then you would get into a nutrition fund of between 70 and 90 million. I would like the Council of State to take part in the further work. That is why I am sorry if the Labour Party does not get a majority in favour of its proposal today. The Saudi community really deserved that. Then I have some comments in relation to the Socialist Left Party. They have spent most of their time attacking the Workers' Party throughout the day, in most of their speeches. Yesterday, the head of the Socialist Left Party was on TV and said that it was very important that we cooperate in the future. We know that SV wants to be in government position in the future. Yes, do they want it with the Workers' Party? Then it will be difficult for the SV representatives to keep posts at all afterwards, because it is very little different from the Labour Party's policy, to cancel out the Workers' Party, which they have spent time here today. They will have to deal with the reality that today in Norway we have a national deficit of up to 10 TWh. NVE and professional competence in Norway say that with today’s energy policy and consumption growth, as it appears to be, all forecasts point straight up. The majority of the population have assumed a reduction in consumption. Now, one is going to reduce the growth in consumption, and we in the Workers' Party fully agree with that, because we live in the real world. Then they say if there's a dry year in 2010, we're going to lack 43 TWh. SV travels around and gives power to the industry. They say the power prices are too high. A week ago, they said it at Tonstad. The electricity price was 40 cents. Yes, what is the electricity price, in the SV's view, that people should be able to pay? I have challenged them – and I am still waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1836	Let me briefly repeat to the representative of Klungland the comparison between Otra and Saudi. It is the big difference that in the Otra case, the Stortinget took a decision on the size of the nutrition fund. In the Sauda case there has been an extension agreement between the builder, AS Saudefallen, and the municipalities concerned. What one now does, is mix two parallel projects into each other, and I just want to say that it will break with what has been practice in that way. So ask the representative Meltveit Kleppa how the government can expand Lingvang-Tengesdal. I will then refer to the message, where the government has thoroughly explained why we want to do this. But let me just mention one point, and that's that the big and broad public interest is very much linked to the Åbotalen, Etnefjella and the North Transfer. There, the government has taken into account the broad public interest. Of course, we also see the quality of Lingvang-Tengesdal, but the government's goal has been to launch a project that can be realized. I want to warn Stortinget against some kind of modular design on the desktop, where one brings projects out and new ones in. I would just like to say quite briefly that what the centre party here stands for, namely taking out Lingvang-Tengesdal and bringing in the north transmission and the Turkotal, which also have great environmental qualities, by the way, is not simply a viable project. Finally, I will also reply to the representative from the Workers' Party, who has been a little thousands, to put it this way, in terms of the reference to Jens Stoltenberg's opinion. Yes, Stoltenberg held a New Year's speech, and we have got it partially referenced. I am, for my part, more concerned with what Stoltenberg recently said to me in a debate at the NRK, where he accused the Council of State of being unclear about rejecting the NVE's proposal. Now the Workers' Party comes back to Stortinget with a proposal that is close to this. I respect the fact that new ideas have been put into practice, but I believe that the Workers' Party should recognise that they have come up with other ideas since this proposal was tabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1845	Heidi Sørensen has had the word twice and is now given the word for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1848	Another force populist has kept an article. Let me say that I agree with the last Council of State said, about the reversals that have taken place, and let me explain why I have used my limited speaking time in this matter to attack the Workers' Party. It's precisely because I experienced a year ago that we agreed when it came to hydroelectric expansion. We agreed with Stoltenberg’s statement that the time of the large hydroelectric power plant was over. I also agree with the reference made by the Council of State. When the NVE presented its proposal for full expansion in Sauda, I was pleased that Stoltenberg on the news so resolutely rejected that proposal. The backlash we now experience from the Workers' Party's side, I must admit that I create wounds, and yes, I regret it. I hope we can see a more constructive meeting in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1857	I almost regret that I am getting involved in the dispute between the two parties that have taken the initiative to rule this country after 2005. If this is going to form the recording, it looks so festive. But what made me take the floor in this case was the SV attack on the Workers' Party and the Labour Party policy in terms of energy. I really have to support SV in this matter. SV has been quite clear. SV wants the highest possible current price that affects the population. That is what the Labour Party really wants. The working party has still not answered me the question of what they think about the construction of gas power plants within the climate quotas that they have addressed. The Labour Party writes in the setting, as I have said before, that there has been a political uncertainty about future emission requirements, the demands that the Workers' Party has been at the forefront of promoting. That's the result of the Labour Party's policy we see. When you talk about building gas power plants, there is a gas power plant with CO2 management, a technology that is at best well ahead of time. CO2 management is not CO2 management, but CO2 magic, because it is a technology that is not commercially profitable. So here's the Workers' Party talking with two tongues. It is absolutely correct in this case. I expect the Workers' Party once again to try to clarify what they think about the use of gas power plants and the production of energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1868	Let me first thank you for clarifying some of the misunderstandings here in this room, and then say that the reason I'm going up here now is the invitation from Rolf Terje Klungland for government cooperation, expressed with the classic arrogance with which I believed the Labour Party had agreed. In a government cooperation, one works together and agrees on the policy. It's not like one party is putting politics down on the other, like it's being put up to. In energy policy, unfortunately, the Labour Party, together with the Government Party, is about a bad alternative, and they want to do this even worse. SV is associated with environmental mobility, with all policy youth organisations and with tourist associations. So we're on the team with a bunch of outside groups that the Labour Party completely ignores. Then they have to expect to hear it. That they then ally themselves with individual groups in trades and take everything they say, too good fish, is their problem. So in relation to this issue, that is, energy policy, and the rough way the Labour Party puts forward in EU cases, it is clear that they are not asking for cooperation from the Labour Party. They're actually saying no to it by running as they do. Here we just have to play the ball back and say that in a government constellation, in cooperation, there are two parties who sit down, and then they become a few things. It is not such that SV should join after a working party. It's possible that it was like this before, but it's all over now. As I also said, the candidate who is concerned with energy policy is Kristin Halvorsen. She's been on a policy. In the case of the Workers' Party, the lease has changed policy, or the party has made sure that the lease has changed policy. So the problem points back to the Workers' Party. So a couple of words about the power price, of which it was also made a point. Now I have to go back to the fact that the Labour Party has a seat in government. They have helped to decide to build highly impurising gas power plants, which the Progress Party points to, but has not implemented any of that policy either, in the belief that it would reduce the electricity price. SV has said that we want to go into the Energy Act and see if we can regulate prices at a different level. We have also consistently said that electricity taxes are an advantage in providing alternative renewable energy sources. But it's about one ear or half a ear. Then we don't talk about a penny. That's the difference in this. We would like to have a government cooperation with the Workers' Party, but then they have to facilitate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1883	Rolf Terje Klungland has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1886	There was something smoking in my leg, so I had to drop off, even though I had a lot of good to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1893	Rolf Terje Klungland has resigned. Sylvia Brustad has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1898	With regard to the issues raised in relation to the Labour Party's policy, I do not think there is any doubt that we are both in favour of the construction of gas power plants – that is why we gave them the concessions – and that we are also in favour of the development of hydropower plants, when it can be reconciled with environmental interests. The question of cooperation between the Workers' Party and SV seems to me to belong elsewhere than in this debate here. So I think we're going to come back to it in the second forum. I think this debate has taken a little off in a different direction than what this matter is really about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1906	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5, 6 and 7. [[See page 3435]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1922	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1929	The case of power expansion in the Hatterberg River has been dealt with and decided several times before. The concession candidate, Kvinnherad Energi AS, has requested, in accordance with watercourse regulation law § 8, that the department’s refusal to grant the Muradalen power plant an extension and upgrading application be submitted to Stortinget. Muradalen power station is a power station in the heart of Muradalen. Annual output in the power plant is currently around 8.5 GWh. The current Muradalen power station was put into operation in 1954, and the pipeline needs to be changed for security reasons within a few years. Women's Heated Energy, owned by the Municipality of Kvinnherad, applied in 1998 for permission to upgrade and expand the Muradalen power plant in the Hatteberg district. The Ministry of Oil and Energy decided in June 2001 to reject the application for further regulation of Svartavatnet and to build a new Muradalen power plant. At the same time, the power company was converted into an eternity of its time-limited regulatory concession in the watercourse. The applicant was also granted permission to take the necessary protective measures at the Black Water pond as requested. During the handling of cases in the department, the seeker provided an alternative to the conversion of the power plant, without changing the height of the fall, but with increased leaching capacity. Departing Minister of Oil and Energy Akssensen rejected her application, presented in four points, to upgrade and expand the Muradalen power plant, in a letter dated 28 June 2001. Minister of Oil and Energy Steensnæs Rås in St.meld. No 23 for 2002-2003 to maintain previous rejection of the application to upgrade and deploy the power plant. Minister of Oil and Energy Steensnæs has further lifted its decision in letter dated 3 March 2002 that the extension of the Muradalen power plant was not compulsory. The size is therefore invited to confirm two previous rejections of the application, made by two oil and energy ministers. It would be alarming if Stortinget were to review the two previous rejections of the application. I am pleased that only the Progress Party will review the previous decisions. Concessions for watercourse regulation shall normally only be granted if the damage or disadvantages have been assessed to be less than those resulting from the action. Some qualified overweight is not required. It has been an unusually strong commitment to target different views in connection with the matter and not least to me as a case spokesman. In addition to the information received from the Committee on the evaluation of its plans on the power plant on 19 May 2003, it was also informed that Rosendal and surrounding waterworks were required to create new treatment plants. Thus, the water plant has developed plans for a new construction for a sewage treatment plant just below the power station. The Committee received a letter from the Women’s Heated Energy Committee dated 26 May 2003 on ‘the upgrading of Muradalen power plants and possible coordination with the water body’s development plans’. It would be advisable for the Stortinget to consider the facts of this letter as part of the treatment of the duck from the Women's Heater Energy. The letter must be seen as an indication that a formal request for possible coordination of the water body’s plans can be made in order to reduce the cleaning requirements and upgrade the Muradalen power plant. The majority, all non-participating members of the Socialist Left Party, are in favour of such coordination, provided that any measures approved in the area are within the limits required for the purposes of protection. The pipe street is now clearly visible in the terrain, although the vegetation above the power station covers a part of the pipe street. By replacing the pipes, they can be placed so that they are less visible in the terrain. The machinery in the power station must also be replaced. The self power station can hardly be said to be an aesthetic innovation, and another design of the power station could have caused this to fall naturally into the terrain. The majority today confirms the rejection of the 1998 application. Women's Heated Energy has warned that they will seek the upgrading of Muradalen power plants and possible coordination with the water plant's development plans. It is in the case of an application that the Ministry of Oil and Energy is responsible for treating normally within the limits required for the purposes of protection. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter, and I recommend it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1959	The President has understood that Sylvia Brustad will have the floor instead of Rolf Terje Klungland.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1962	Upgrading and extension of Muradalen power plants has been controversial. The NVE, the Ministry of Local Government, the county and the municipality have been positive in upgrading or expanding the power plant, while the protection interests refer to the essential qualities of the landscape and to the fact that the area is part of a larger cultural environment in Rosendal. The fact that Baronian Rosendal is located in the area has also been central to the debate. Following an application for conversion of the power plant without changing the height of the fall, but with increased leaching capacity, the NVE found that there was no need for a concession in relation to the Water Resource Act. The existing power station is located in a valley bottom approx. 3 kilometers from the Baronian, and the affected fox is even further away. The station is relatively inaccessible to and is not visible from Baroniet or from the village of Rosendal. That might be good, because the existing power station in the area is old, and it's also a little bit daunting in nature. The Committee has been on an inspection in the area and, in this context, it has also been made aware that the construction of a sewage treatment plant in the area is planned on a compulsory basis. One might think that this is a matter that should have been settled by the department. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the committee, in the form of a comment, writes that one would be in favour of coordinating the power plant and the water plant, provided that this is within the limits required by the protection values in the area. I expect the government along with the builder and NVE things to come up with solutions that most people can be satisfied with. In Rosendal and otherwise in the area we find many beautiful and important cultural memories. In addition, there are large, pristine landscapes. Folgefonna is at the heart of what will become Folgefonna National Park. I am pleased that there is a majority who will provide financial support to the Folgefonna National Park, thus confirming the suspension of the budget for the current year. But I'm a little surprised that the same majority won't be in favour of the National Park Centre being given temporary authorisation. The fact that the majority sees no value in strengthening their skills in caring for the important cultural memories in the area is also difficult to understand. We know that in this community there is a great commitment to developing these values also in the context of travel life in a sustainable way. Therefore, I wish that the bulk of the population today had given somewhat more positive signals than is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-18.ana.ud2495e1975	The regulatory time for this morning's meeting is now running out, and we are ending the morning meeting. The size will be restored at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
