ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e76	The President will propose the election of the President-in-Office of the European Parliament on Thursday and Friday. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e81	I suggest Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e86	Mr. Øyvind Halleraker has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker is unanimously elected president of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e100	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e109	In St. prp. No 84 for 2002–03, the Ministry of Transport supports proposals for the partial toll-financed development of the Rv 544 Halsnøj link in the Municipality of Kvinnherad in Hordaland. The project will have a major impact on the population and industry of Halsnøy, among others. by significantly reducing travel time to mainland by replacing today's road link ferry. The project is to build an underwater tunnel from Sunde on the mainland, under Halsnøysundet, to Halsnøy. The project covers the construction of approximately 6.3 km of new road from Sunde in Kvinnherad to Tofte on Halsnøy, with a 4.1 km long underwater tunnel and 2.2 km of new road today. The estimated cost of the project is 343 million. kr. The net benefit of the project is estimated at approximately minus 104 million. kr. The financial plan requires 112 million. SEK in government funds, 34 million. NOK in municipal grant and SEK 197 million. kr in tolls. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party, support the Government's proposal to extend the Halsnøj link. The Progress Party refers to the assessment of alternative forms of investment and operations; including OPS, Public Private Cooperation, BOT, Construction-Operator-Backwards, and different models with State advance. The Progress Party considers it desirable to carry out a further revision of the calculations and financing plan for the project and therefore supports the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the project with updated revenue and cost figures, alternative arrangements for toll collection and alternative ferry connections between Skjersholmane – Sunde, as well as other forms of financing and organisation of the project. The majority assumes that a new case will be dealt with in the spring of 2004.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e127	I just want to go a little bit closer to what the majority support this proposal. I want to show that the expansion and refinement of the Halsnøj connection is a project that has been working on for a long time from local sources. This means, as mentioned, that today's ferry service can be reduced from three to two call points, that travel times will be reduced, and not least that Halsnøy will be connected to the mainland. It will be of great importance for both construction, employment and value creation. These three things often hang in the districts, because there's not a place to work there, nor will people stay there. The majority have chosen the broad local connection both to get this project and to the way it is done. It is essentially because I take the floor. I think the hold of the Progress Party is a little strange, and I want to challenge the Progress Party a little bit about how they think we should have it when we handle local matters in Stortinget. If someone in the minority is talking to someone at Stortinget, you should ask for a rematch locally – that's what I think is quite unmanageable for us. We've been pretty tidy here; when the plural wants a case like this, we accept it. But when that's said, I understand that the Progress Party is against toll financing; it's a more fundamental question. But here it is actually a local question that someone just thickens should be organized in another way, and they do not respect the majority either locally or regionally. I would like to have a foundation from the Progress Game in a later article. It's good for us all to know if this is the way we're going to work in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e140	The proposal deals with proposals for partial toll financing of Rv 544 Halsnøjningen in the Kvinnherad municipality of Hordaland. This project has long awaited the citizens and industry, and I am pleased that there is a majority for this implementation now. The project itself is building an underwater tunnel from Sunde on the mainland, under Halsnøysundet, to Halsnøy. Now there will be a continental connection between Halsnøy and the rest of the Municipality of Kvinnherad. Today's ferry connection is converted from a connection with three points of call to a clean shuttle connection between Stord and Halsnøy. Halsnøy will have a continental connection, which will mean a lot to them. 2,300 inhabitants on the island. Getting this mainland connection will mean a lot to your everyday life – the freedom to choose when we want to travel is very important to us in everyday life. It also has a significant impact on housing, employment and value creation, and it will be a strength for the whole region. The financial plan requires 112 million. SEK in government funds, 34 million. NOK in municipal grants and SEK 197 million. kr in tolls. In total, the project was calculated at 343 million in 2003 kroner. This project has support in the municipalities concerned and in the county municipality of Hordaland. The Progress Party proposes that the Government review the project, including: points to other forms of funding and organisation. This matter has been worked on for such a long time that a new postponement can lead to many years of delays in the project. This doesn't want the Right. We believe that the matter has been assessed long enough. Now action and realization are needed – there is something this region needs now. OPS projects are Right for in many contexts, but starting with new investigations now, when the clock is five over twelve, does not want the Right. We support the Government's proposal to expand the Halsnøj connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e164	Work on a fixed road link to Halsnøy in Hordaland has continued since the early 1980s. It is therefore very gratifying that the Stortinget can today make a decision on the development of the Halsnøj connection. The project will have a significant impact on housing and jobs in the area and will provide 2,300 inhabitants on Halsnøy ferry-free road connections with the rest of the Municipality of Kvinnherad. At the same time, it will reduce the number of ferry services from three to two points of call. The Minister of Transport tends to say that transport policy is to make life easier for people. This is to the most extent the case in the development of the Halsnøj connection. The provision of services in the municipality is mainly on the mainland, and the extension reduces travel time between central parts of Halsnøy from 40–50 minutes to 10–15 minutes. By doing so, people in Halsnøy will have easier access to public services, and it will make it easier for people to commute to an enlarged labour market. For industry, the continental link means strengthened competitiveness. It is gratifying that there is strong local support for the Government's arrangement for the development of the link, even if it involves the use of toll financing and municipal subsidies. Both the Municipality of Women and the County of Hordaland have shown great willingness to realize this project. Of course, it is particularly important that Hordaland County, when examining the programme of action for the period 2002-2011, prioritised the neckline link by decommissioning 40 million. kr in the first four-year period – and requires a follow-up of 70 million. kr for the period 2006-2011. It is gratifying that a majority in the United Kingdom is supporting the Government's proposal to build up the Halsnøj link, and that the bulk of the population is thus playing with the local authorities. Today they should lift the flag of Halsnøy!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e175	The Ministry of Transport has proposed the development of the Halsnøj link with partial toll financing. The project has previously been described in St.prp. No 1 for 2001-2002 and St.prp. No 1 for 2002-2003. The rationale for the development of the Halsnøj connection is to provide the residents of Halsnøy with a ferry-free road connection to the rest of the municipality. The project is to build an underwater tunnel of 4.1 km from the mainland Sunde to Halsnøy in addition to 2.2 km of the supply road. The project will provide the inhabitants of Halsnøy with a ferry-free road connection with the rest of the Municipality of Kvinnherad. Today's ferry connection is converted from a connection with three points of call to a clean shuttle connection between Stord and Halsnøy. I emphasize that travel time between central parts of Halsnøy and mainland is reduced from 40–50 minutes to 10–15 minutes. A fixed road link to Halsnøy makes it possible to improve the provision of services in the municipality and make it more accessible to all residents of the municipality. The commuters will have a shorter travel time and an expanded labour market. For the industry in the area, the project will contribute to increased competitiveness. Conversion of the current ferry link to a shuttle link between Skjersholmane and Ranavik will result in an improvement in the traffic management of the connection. In addition, the opening of the Halsnøj link will allow for an increase in the number of take-offs, but this will depend on the financial framework and will need to be assessed in relation to the offer in other ferry connections. Advance and parallel collection of the ferry link Skjersholmane-Ranavik-Sunde for four years and post-clearance recovery for fifteen years on the new road link. When recommending toll collection for the project, I have stressed that there is broad support from local authorities and the overall view of the development of the transport system in the region behind the local decisions. I want to return to Stortinget with the start of the construction of this project in connection with the State budget for 2005. A final decision will be taken on the date of the State appropriations for the annual budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e190	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e193	This is a great day for people on Halsnøy! It is a great day for the Municipality of Women, yes, it is a great day for Sunnhordland and the whole of the South West. Once again, we are witnessing local communities – municipalities, municipalities and road users – lifting in flocks to realise what was going to be a natural state task, namely the construction of highways. But the Westerners are used to this. Over almost 50 years of toll projects, user-funded roads have been realised, often without State involvement in funding at all. And eloquent projects are with the nocturnal forecasts paid down in good time and opened up for toll-free movement. The municipality of Kvinnherad has used considerable resources to provide the municipality with a free road connection with the surrounding world through the Folgefonn tunnel. There is now also a significant contribution to connecting the municipality and, in a wider perspective, open to a cross-link that will link the industrial axis Bømlo-Stord-Halsnøy-Husnes-Rosendal-Odda. This is a joyous day, because we, as the central decision-making authority through our decision today, realize an old dream of mainland connectivity, and through it help to contribute to optimism and a easier everyday life for people most and for the business community in the area. After the tolling period, residents will be able to travel free and free of charge without ferry delays, waiting time, night-riding and, in particular, animal crossings. I am familiar with the fact that the county council is preparing a positive case on the county municipal guarantee for financing this project. It will provide optimal terms of interest for borrowing, secure financing and thus reduce downtime. Thus, the real socio-economic benefits of the project, which should not be confused with the transport-economic benefits described in the proposal, will be much faster. And in fact, it's only when you can 'traffic' such holiday relief project without tolls that's the real socio-economic benefit. So finally, all credit to our Minister of Transport, who got this case out of the water and up to treatment here today!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e208	This is a joyous day for all of Sunnhordland! The neckline is about far more than making it easier for the many inhabitants of Halsnøy to get to the mainland, even though it would have been good enough to build the Halsnøy connection. Halsnøy has a rich and healthy business – not because of, but failing in, communication relationships! The neckline is also about more than connecting a larger part of the Women's Heated municipality – even if it is important enough. For Women'sherad is a long and wide-ranging municipality with many communication challenges for its inhabitants. The neckline will connect the entire Sunnhordland tighter, not land-locked, but by turning a hopeless three-on-one ferry link into a more modern two-on-one shuttle line. So many flags go to the top today! We wise, sound-headed people have the ability to slip over everything that can be called progress! But I wonder that the Progress Party has the hold they have, in this case. They want new layouts, they want to post the project. Wouldn't it be as good if they said it directly, that the communication between Stord and Kvinnherad should still be a ferry connection with three approaches, as it has been almost since the Viking Age? There is something safe and confident about the old that has always been. The neckline is about more than connecting a larger part of the Women's Heated municipality, even though, as I said, it is important enough. I know neither the women's herrings nor the healthy landings as particularly patient or as fanatical followers of long travel times! Therefore, I am glad that the decision taken today by the Stortinget will bring both the Women's Heath and the whole of Sunnhordland a long way forward. Sunnhordland is a heavy and strong nutritional bastion. It's not like it's coming from itself. Sun hordes have always seen the possibilities, and they have had the courage and the ability to take chances and take advantage of the possibilities. Hence, the realization of the Halsnøj connection is a handshake from the big community to a region that wants to know to surface many more twice again! Hence, this is a decision that will all come to an end and make this day a day of joy!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e226	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[See page 508]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e242	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e249	The size is invited today to decide on a Document No. Eight proposals from the Workers' Party on the transport of timber and timber products by rail. The majority of the Committee on Transport has decided that the proposal of the representatives of Akssen, Brustad, Hanssen, Eng and Storberget on measures to increase the share of timber and timber products transported by rail should be rejected. The background for this is, among other things, The Ministry of Transport's assessment of the trends in rail freight, as explained in a letter to the Committee dated 21 October. However, as the rapporteur, I would like to stress that a clear majority of the Committee supports the intention of the proposal, namely to ensure the most environmentally friendly transport of goods and products. It is important to pursue an active policy for a more environmentally friendly transport sector. As shown by the reasons given by the proposers, 60 000 more car combinations on Norwegian roads would have passed if the transport of timber and tile that is currently being carried by train had been moved over on the road. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring good framework conditions for the whole of business. In some countries, good conditions for rail transport are crucial for business and jobs. However, as has been said, the Ministry of Transport does not consider that there is a need for special measures to ensure increased transport of timber and timber products, as is now the case with rail freight. I am pleased that the majority supports the Government's assessment at this point. It is interesting to read the Ministry of Transport's briefing that CargoNet is actively working with actors in the forest industry to ensure and develop the transport of timber, including: by the establishment by forestry and CargoNet of a common company to ensure the transport of timber by rail from Hedmark to the wood processing industry. This is an important signal from the forest industry that you want to bet on transport by rail in the future. This optimism among both carriers and transport users is uplifting! There's a lot going on in this area at all. The government’s efforts to get new actors to use the Norwegian railway network are important in this respect. Increased competition may offer lower prices to users, while still ensuring wagon load operation on exposed routes. It would be natural to return to the more general framework conditions for such transport in the roll-out of the national transport plan and in the examination of the annual budgets. In the next year’s government budget, the government has proposed to eliminate the electricity charge for the railways, which means that CargoNet’s expenditure will be reduced by 13 million. kr. This is a significant improvement in the framework conditions for rail transport. The Christian People's Party will follow developments in goods on the track carefully in the future. We need a more environmentally friendly transport sector, and we cannot do that without a competitive railway. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e270	The case spokesperson has done some good for the view of the plurality of this Document No. the 8th proposal from labour party representatives. As co-rapporteur, I would therefore like to use my time to justify the proposal of the minority. CargoNet ends with wagon load from the turn of the year. They specialize in other transport solutions. The reason is that the wagon load is an undershooting company, the fleet has expired, and they don't have the money to invest in new material. Most parties say in party speeches that they want more goods off the track, but have done so little to get them into practical politics. This Document No The 8 proposal contains measures to take carriers seriously. But it has a price, a price that we don't know for sure, given that we've got a lot of different estimates of what it's going to be every year. The working party is adding 10 million. in its alternative budget and will follow up with new concessions in the national transport plan and in the annual budgets, whether this proves to be an incentive for existing transport to continue, so that several companies find the cost-effective use of rail transport. The margins in the business and transport sectors are declining. Both in the hearings of the Transport Users' Joint Organisation, the forestry industry, CargoNet, and also in the case of ore transport between Kiruna and Narvik, the road charges have been recorded. This is a competitively distorting charge that favors the truck. The labor party thinks she has to go away. This measure is to be considered a small sausage in the slaughter days just before Christmas. But to put it more concretely: there is a small budget entry that can facilitate the transfer of goods to the path. The Ministry writes in its letter: ‘Many Norwegian industries are currently located in port areas that make shipping a more suitable alternative to the carriage of traditional industrial goods.’ Excuse me, President, the department is going around the pit! In concrete terms, the proposal relates to the transport of timber, chips and sawdust. Heathland as woodland no. 1 has few ports, as I know both map and terrain! However, I shall not comment on the reasons for the Government Party and the Advance Party to reject this good proposal. The Labour Party takes the Government seriously. The government wants more actors into the freight transport on the track, and it was set up from 15 March 2003. The carrot must at least eliminate the road charge on the wagon load in order to be equated with combined transports and system trains. Could this contribution be our political signal that Norway too is following in the footsteps of the EU? The roads have a stretching capacity problem, and they have a rather reputation for this transport. There will be 50,000 new trailers on the road only if Hedmark loses the wagon load capability. I also want to stay a little bit at a local level. At Nesby, there was a transfer to the train. At the end of a few years ago, 15 000 new trailers came out on the road, a road in total resolution, which is driven by dispensation with worn-out tyres, where Most have measured the track depth to 13 cm. It's no wonder people in the passenger car are afraid when the timber transport dwindles and slid down the valley along Rv 7. The road surface is failing, and the aftermath of maintenance is increasing both there and in the rest of the country. This is a proposal to curb accidents, a contribution to approach zero vision and take business seriously – a business that is otherwise at risk of obtaining raw materials from countries where costs and the environment are completely different from those of us. But it is also a proposal that provides jobs in the district where values grow and are created. I want to address the proposal that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e297	The representative, Sigrun Eng, has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e300	It is useful to have a debate on the railway location in respect of the movement of goods in Norway. For the Right and the Government, the aim is to increase the share of timber and timber products transported by rail, just as it is a goal that all goods and products are transported in an environmentally friendly and efficient way. Such developments are important not only for the environment but also for road safety. In this way, it is well just to note that the proposers and the government parties are working towards the same goal. Developments in freight transport show marked rotation away from traditional wagon loads and towards combined transport and container transport. Reduction in traditional industrial activities and the location of heavy industry along ports contribute to this development. Transport of finished goods, on the other hand, has increased, and there, CargoNet has made progress. They have been where developments have taken place in the transport of goods. Flexible, short-distance and long-distance truck transport systems exploit the different advantages and advantages of different modes of transport. CargoNet appears to have made better progress than in other countries. Concentrations on combined transport have defended market shares in a way that very few other countries can refer to. It's a victory for us who work for a greater share of rail transport, and it's good for us who believe in rail opportunities. Government parties have made efforts to free up resources on the road by opening up competition in freight transport. We believe it will defend and increase the railway's position as a freight forwarder. The liberalisation also opens up the possibility of continuing the transport of timber, where private, independent or in cooperation with CargoNet, freight companies can be established. The cooperation of forestry with CargoNet in Hedmark to transport efficiently Hedmark’s large timber resources is an example of this. The requests of the proposers for increased carriage of loads of wood, tiles and forestry products are easy to support. Lightness in the electricity charge contributes to making the transport of goods by road more reasonable. $13 million. This will be easy for CargoNet during 2004. With regard to the proposal to remove the road tax, we are likely to come back to this in the context of the budgetary procedure. In any case, the road tax will be applied when the national transport plan is discussed later in this session. Most importantly, in order to get a greater share of timber and timber on the railways, I think the government's opening up to competition. From March of this year, the Government introduced competition in transport throughout the rail network. Private participation in freight transport offers enormous opportunities to exploit our rail system. Carriers and transport users could benefit from exploring rail potential, tailoring organisational forms and new cooperation patterns. It is Right and Government's view that the more hands, the greater the opening of innovation and innovation. Therefore, the Government opens up more and more fields for private actors. It will provide more rational operation and ensure greater profitability. Not least in transport, such development is important in order to ensure jobs in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e319	The President owes it to make representatives aware that the timing clock has run smoothly today, so the President encourages discipline. So far, it's been very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e322	I would like to ask for the floor to underline and support the contribution to Mr Eng, who in an excellent way explained why we have put forward the proposal to facilitate increased freight transport. I note that all those who have spoken, and this is also evident from the committee's position, have a common objective of increasing the share of timber and timber products on the railways. Furthermore, we can see that it has gone the opposite way. It has gone from rail to road in the case of timber transport. This will have to be seen as a transport policy challenge when we agree with the objective that we need to put in place effective measures to get the timber back on the rail – in order to get a greater share of timber and timber products across the rail. The majority and the Minister of Transport indicate that increased competition and more rail freight companies are the way to go. That is what you see as being the solution, and from 15 March this year there has been competition for the transport of timber. It must then be emphasised that regardless of which companies transport goods by rail, the framework conditions will be essential for winning in competition with road transport. Regardless of the company, the framework conditions will be decisive. Then the road tax is very close to pointing out. It means a lot to those who are going to transport, to those who have to pay it, but in general, in the budgetary context, it means little. Forty million. Let's go in. Nineteen million. kr is from CargoNet. I assume that MT AS and Ofotbanen constitute the rest. That's barely 1 pst. by the budget of the Railway Agency. In general, it doesn't mean much, but for the carriers, it means a lot. I regret that the majority is not willing to participate in putting in place effective measures to improve rail competitiveness in order to contribute to more freight from road to rail, so that we achieve the objectives declared by the majority of the Committee and all parties to be in favour. SV will make proposals for a reduced road tax in the context of the budget. We'll get back to it, and I'm glad and positive that there's been a signal from the new co-workers that they're looking at the same thing. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister for Transport a question, since it has been pointed out that competition in freight transport is what you see as a contribution here to increasing freight by rail. How many companies have signed up for rail freight after opening up competition in March this year? How many companies have signed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e337	It will give the Council of State the opportunity to come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e340	It should be a goal that we should take advantage of the advantages of different modes of transport in the transport of goods. One of the railway’s advantages in terms of freight transport is that, at cost, transport becomes more favourable at longer distances and with a large volume. Yes, the transport will be more advantageous to your goods and the greater the distance will be. CargoNet AS, which is the largest and most important rail freight operator in Norway, has increased combined transport rates due to market developments than before. The demand for traditional wagon transport has fallen. CargoNet has also invested in so-called System trains, which are targeted specifically at timber and tile transports. The cooperation concluded between CargoNet and the forest industry is important in order to maximise the transport of timber and tile by rail. This has strengthened and developed the transport of timber on some sections of the road, but it may be equally important that it saves the road network for thousands of trailers every year. I have noticed that in response to questions from the Committee, the Government says that according to developments, it will not be right to introduce special measures aimed at the forest industry’s transport of pulp, tiles and forest-industrial products by rail. At the same time, the Ministry states in its reply that the competitive advantage of transporting forest-industrial products by rail, among other things, is that: depends on the specified framework conditions. The Ministry also points out that the removal of electricity charges provides a savings for CargoNet in 2004. However, the Ministry will not go in and look at other measures that may improve the framework for freight transport. Justifiably, the Ministry says that it may be natural to discuss changes in the framework conditions in connection with the work on NTP and the annual budgets. As I interpret it, the Ministry does not reject the fact that changes in the framework conditions can facilitate the improvement of rail freight transport, but it is not the Government's will to assess this now. The centre party wants a more active attitude and is therefore included in the minority’s proposal to ask the Government to put in place measures to facilitate an increase in freight transport in general and rail freight transport in particular. I will not justify that proposal, but just refer to the representative Sigrun Eng's statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e353	The aim is to improve the transport of goods from road to rail and maritime transport. Although there are counties here in the country that do not have the coast up to their borders, the overall aim is to get goods from road to rail and sea, both for environmental and safety reasons, and not least for business itself. We want efficient transport around the country, and then the railway plays a significant role. The aim is for it to play an even more important role. Now what do we see? We see that transport by CargoNet is increasing. There is no way out right now. But it is important that we have transport solutions on Norwegian railways that are able to address the needs that are. CargoNet has changed its transport solutions just to get the most of the goods onto the railway. You want to make sure that the goods can actually be driven on the railway. That's what we're in the middle of. I want to remind you again that there is a cooperation here when we talk about timber transport, between CargoNet and the forest industry, just to facilitate this. That is why I believe that progress is on the right track. We are betting more on the railways of this government than the previous government, based on a party such as the representatives who have promoted this Document No. The 8-proposal, it comes from. We've done this because we think it's important. If we are to succeed both on the passenger transport side and on the freight side, we must have a rail network that is both safe and efficient. We have yet another way to go. We haven't come to terms with where we should be in order to have a completely optimal railway network, but we're working towards it. In relation to what we do on the rail side to facilitate freight transport, we have presented a record rail budget for 2004. We have a VAT conversion that benefits rail and also freight, and we have a conversion of the electricity charge that also benefits the railway. These are important measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e365	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e368	The stake on the railway seems to me to be more of a budgetary matter, and I will deal with it when that time comes. The transport of goods by CargoNet is increasing, said the Council of State. Yes, very positive, but it does not affect the wagon load. The opposite is true. They cut down on wagon load traffic from New Year's. That is what is at issue today. Raw materials transporters need traditional wagon loads. Many processing companies have trains running all the way into the ramp and ask themselves the question: What are we doing here in the house? Another problem I would like to raise is the pressure we have had and partly to increase the length and tonnage of the truck to 25,25 meters and 60 tons. Will the Council not consider traditional wagon loads as a good measure just to curb the pressure we have on Sweden and the other Nordic countries? Otherwise I must say that I wonder that Kjestad is so positive to the proposal, when they reject it in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e379	What is important to me in the area of timber transport in particular is that there is a cooperation between CargoNet and the forest industry, and that we look together at solutions and how we can solve the challenges for the future. When you choose to switch from traditional wagon loads to other solutions, it's because the market says there are other solutions we need, precisely in order to benefit from the combination of road and rail in a better way, so that the industry itself is interested in moving the goods from road to rail. I think it is absolutely right and important that we allow CargoNet and other railway carriers to find the solutions. I do not think it is right that the Minister of Transport or the Stortinget should tell the carriers what kind of physical solutions they should have. The industry, together with the carriers, needs to find the solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e386	I will not address a debate on the budget for transport in this line, but it is clear from the answers given by the Minister for Transport that the market and the market solutions are the whole choice of transport. The willingness to put in effective instruments is very little present. I just have to remind you, in the case of the Nordlandsbahn, that earlier this year also important industrial transport to the Rana industry has left the railway. On the question of whether the Minister was willing to take action to prevent it, the answer was that there was no willingness to do so. So it's a passive and retiring attitude to get more goods across from road to rail – definitely. I asked questions in my post to the Minister, and I will repeat that now: How many companies have reported their interest in transporting goods by rail after it was opened up to competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e395	To take the last question first, several have reported their interest. There are several people on the Norwegian railway network, but CargoNet is still the main player. I think we'll see that for a while. That is why CargoNet is an important player. I react a little to the fact that it is said that the will for instruments is not present. Here we have presented a budget in relation to public transport, which also relates to the railways, with a VAT bill in practice of DKK 0.5 billion per year. years. And then there is no will for action! At the same time, we have put forward a budget that is the largest in terms of rail in a long time – if we ignore exactly the Gardermoban – and if it is called 'passive and backward' then I don't know. I deeply disagree with that. The railway is important. We must succeed in railway policy, we must get efficient, safe and safe transport for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e404	For once, I am very pleased with the Council of State regarding the changes that have occurred within the Norwegian railway system. Had the Workers' Party continued to operate on this, there would not have been so many changes that had been made. We've been getting a divorce from the NSB and the Railway Agency in the last few years. We have opened the railway to new operators, and the government has also announced that the first tenders will come within Norwegian rail. So far I am very pleased, for once, with what the Council of State has done in its department. But then I have a little question. It's not just changing the law, you also have to facilitate those who want to go in and compete with NSB Gods. Then I'd like to ask the Council of State, how far has she come? How far will she go in changing legislation and regulations and facilitating the situation so that we can bring in actors, in particular in areas such as the Østerdalen, where there is little traffic, and where there is no track capacity today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e409	With regard to the facilitation of freight transport and competition in freight transport, this is the option there today. Other companies can come and have come, literally, on the field. From March 15th this year we opened up these possibilities. In the case of passenger transport, it is different. There we give exclusive rights – there we are working on the exclusive right to drive certain routes. In the case of freight transport, we do not grant this type of exclusive right. It is up to the Railway Authority to approve those who are going to run on the infrastructure and up to the Railway Agency to grant access. That possibility is there and there are actors who have notified their interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e414	The answer given by the Ministry to questions submitted by the Committee states that the Ministry believes that the framework conditions are decisive for the amount of goods to be transferred to the railway. It is true that, as the Council of State has said in reply to replies now, certain measures have been taken to facilitate conditions. But then, in one of the answers to a previous line, the Council of State stresses that now it is the forest industry and the hauliers who should find the solution, and the responsibility is in a way placed there. But doesn't the Council of States see that correcting the conditions is not the same as interfering with the work of forest industry and hauliers? Does the Council not see that a condition for carriers and forest industries to find good solutions is precisely that the State also does its job?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e419	Well, the state has a responsibility to put the framework conditions in place. We've done that to a very high degree, among other things. through the fee element within the budget of the year. It is a real easy one, compared to 2003, a real one for 2004, 2005 and 2006 and the years ahead. It is one of the framework conditions that this government has emphasised in relation to the railway. Then we've thought it's important that we let go of more actors, who might want a different solution than that, for example. CargoNet has. Those options are there, and I think it would be totally wrong if we were to restrict it. I would therefore like to claim that the framework conditions for goods on the railways are very good, and we must ensure that they are good in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e424	The debate gives us some answers that may not be included in the management plans, when we also deal with collective action and budget lines, or else. But leave it alone. I had a specific question to the Council of State about the competition for traditional wagon loads up against the pressure to allow vehicle combinations that measure 25,25 metres and weigh 60 tonnes. Is she worried that the pressure will come back if we don't take any action? She has indicated that CargoNet has increased traffic and that traditional wagon loads are falling. Yeah, it goes down, because it's plausibly out. That's what's the problem. We have to get them back on track, with a price that can be accepted. The fee is, to say the least, disqualifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e429	With regard to the weight of the vehicle on the road, it is a little bit outside of the specific question we are now discussing here. However, it is about efficient transport and being able to use efficient physical space on a vehicle, such as a car or a railway. What concerns wagon loading on the road is a question I consider, and I have not least asked the road authorities, Vegvesen, about their assessments of. For this is a relationship in which we need to have clarity, to what extent the road, the bridge, etc. withstands this load, both vehicle combination and axle load. So there's an assessment of what kind of weight we can allow on Norwegian roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e435	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e438	This is a little bit of a special discussion. I must say that I do not understand the reason why the majority rejects the minority's proposals, asking for action to be taken in relation to political developments that everyone who has been on this platform says they want to. In this way, I fully share the views and intentions of the case rapporteur, the representative of Holten. I think that was a good thing. But you crack on the rise side. What it's really about, I feel, is to a large extent depoliticating this area as well. They say we don't have a toolbox here, neither do we. There are actually many good reasons to use the Toolbox in this case. In an article in the evening post, the Minister of Economic Affairs said: ‘On the other hand, the inner east, Oppland, Hedmark and Røros regions are struggling with gloomy prospects. It is primarily here that the challenges facing industrial policy will come in the years to come.’ I underline ‘nutritional policy’. Even the Minister of Industry has not indicated that there are also industrial policy instruments. At the same time, it created a picture that the political toolbox is empty. In my opinion, there are also tools in this area. But it assumes that we're actually willing to take the debate and not leave the drowning under some sort of rolling of national transport plan. I assume that we are creative and willing to turn stones. I am therefore surprised that the majority rejects the minority proposal today. Why? What's the background for that? You don't see the possibilities, and you don't see the dimensions of what this is about? Forestry and train transport are highly interdependent and the industry is forced to move existing rail transport by road, much of this important primary industry will be unprofitable. One third of the timber logging we know is happening in Hedmark. The first-hand value of this is over 700 million. kr. A significant proportion of pulp and tiles are transported on trains. If we move this to Norwegian roads, and we've heard several of them say that they want to, it will mean that you'll get thousands, up to 60,000, more car trains on the roads. This is not just a business policy issue; it is also, to the most extent, an environmental issue. It is therefore important to look at all aspects of the transport situation, including: competitive conditions, general framework conditions, charging and infrastructure, in the context. What is the reason why the Government will not take this discussion? An increase in the transport costs of forest industries beyond the current level could make timber extraction almost unprofitable. The industry has done its job in many ways. The focus that has been on forestry in Hedmark, among others Participation in the financing of new rail freight transport equipment indicates full – large investments which in many ways demonstrate that it is now the turn of politicians to get on the road to improving the framework conditions for inland and for the nation’s most important areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e454	It has been said that there is a distortion of competition between the truck and the railway. The representative Eng concluded that the truck industry had distortive advantages. It is right that trucks have advantages. But it's natural benefits. The trucks are flexible. They carry the goods from point A to point B, not like the railway, which depends on the first use of the truck from the manufacturer to the railway, then the railway to the nearest city, and then the truck from the railway to the consumer or end user. So it's right that the truck is a much more flexible solution than the railway. But when it's said that the truck has better framework conditions than the railway, you're far on the verge. Eng said that CargoNet's fleet was poor, that we had to spend the money in the state budget so that CargoNet, as a private company, would be able to replace its fleet. I would like to inform you that the truck fleet in the truck industry is replaced daily, is replaced very often, without the state budget having anything to do with such things, without there being any support in the state budget for it. It's actually the opposite. Cargo drivers pay large amounts in annual fees. The railway doesn't. The truck industry spends a large amount of money on the re-registration fee. The railway doesn't. The truck industry pays large amounts of various environmental taxes. The railway doesn't. The truck industry pays large amounts of diesel taxes for the use of the roads. As far as I know, you fill diesel on the locomotives free of charge. Trucks pay tolls to drive on the roads. The railway doesn't. The truck industry is therefore fully paying to use the roads in this country. The railway doesn't. It is distorting – in the opposite direction of what was said. So many have said that everyone wants goods to be transported from road to rail. I have to say that this is not an explicit objective for the Progress Party. We want the best possible transport for the lowest possible use of money, so that users get the most reasonable goods at the end. This means that competition between the various modes of transport must be free and, where appropriate, must be equally burdened or subsidized. There is free competition between the various transport industries, and we also get the lowest cost for the user, which is the most important for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e463	I was given a visit from the Workers' Party. After the last article, I could have been tempted to comment on it instead, but let me stick to what I was asked for. It was said by Sigrun Eng that I was in favour of the road tax, or rather the removal of the road tax. What I said is that it's in the cards that we're going to discuss it in the context of the budgetary agreement, and that in any case it's going to be a topic during the discussion of the national transport plan. I have to say that I react when the Workers' Party says that we do not have a toolbox for rail transport. That's what we do with budget work every year. No one has ever taken a vow similar to what this government has done, with regard to this particular theme, not least in terms of organisation. It is this government that has loosened up the entire organisational structure of transport, and then we are accused that we have nothing in our toolbox. It falls on its own unreasonableness. We've just opened the toolbox to the fullest, and there we have a lot more tools than any of the Workers' Party can refer to. Then you must not forget that once CargoNet has turned the wheel from wagon loads to combined loads, it is because it is where the goods are. I guess you can't plan based on what you think it should have been. CargoNet has been in the middle of development and has been one of the most successful carriers of goods in Europe in relation to its shares. And I think the Labour Party could be so brave that they gave them credit. Well, at least we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e477	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 508]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e493	It is also this time a very comprehensive big message we have been presented to us, which again demonstrates that good fisheries management is the same as providing an active and thorough basis for creating billions of values for Norwegian fishing industry. If there is a need for a Norwegian fishing industry, it is that we are even more able to be an influence against the international community in terms of fisheries management, because it is certainly still a long, long way to get to port in a better and safer way in this area. Norway is a major fishing force. We are also a geographical power that has sovereignty and hands over a rather significant area in the European context. In fact, we have more than 30 pst. of the total geographical land and sea area in Western Europe. Norway also has very extensive international fishing cooperation. This may be the area – with only Norwegian shipping industry as an example – that illustrates the extent of international cooperation, participation and activity we have in this area. I think I can say that the Committee shares a very strong view of both ambitions on behalf of the Norwegian fishing industry and concerns about Norwegian fishing and international fisheries management. For my part, I would add that in several areas, and in particular with the new agreement between Norway and Russia, which was signed in St. Petersburg last week, in memory, we see clear progress. This means that, where some unpopular, but necessary positions have been taken and implemented politically — some could have thought of going even further — in areas of management, it turns out to be the only right thing in very many situations. It illustrates the necessity and importance of rebuilding the stock and the incentive to restore billions of Norwegian fishing industry. And that's what I'm saying in a phase where we've seen that the ambitions you've had on behalf of the Norwegian fishing industry in the last few years, far from having turned on. Of course, this is due to more relationships. One aspect is natural enough that, at the end of the 1980s and in the 1990s, we were very small enough to maintain the concept of sustainability around fisheries management. But we've seen just as much that the international economic collapse has also hit the Norwegian fishing industry. We have seen that the purchasing power of the markets to be served by Norwegian fisheries has been greatly reduced in recent years. And as former foreign minister Jagland has mentioned so nicely in a recently published book, we are outside the European Community, with the great disadvantages it brings to Norwegian fishing and fishing. Everyone knows the situation of the Norwegian farming industry in recent years. That means that we lack neither challenges nor ambitions. Nevertheless, there is reason to conclude that we still have a long way to go before international fisheries management is at a level that is to be considered satisfactory. Although Norway has been a driver in both management and research in this area in many ways, there is still a strong need for increased investment in international fisheries management and cooperation. It is therefore very important that Norway be present in the areas where fisheries and resource management are being discussed. And it's just to say, when we look at one of the most important cooperation relationships we have, the cooperation between Norway and the EU, that there is a lot of sadness. I am thinking about the EU fisheries management. I can't see that so many steps have been taken that bring the administrative regime of the European Union something in particular to the future. It is deplorable to note that in many ways the same old-fashioned methods of drafts that have been made so far are still being used, and not enough ability to take seriously the fact that several of the important common stocks that we and the EU have for administration do not show signs of reconstruction, but are still in a very threatened situation. It only illustrates how important it is for Norway to re-connect with the EU in this area and to tell them that environmental and resource management is the only thing that can also save the EU fishing fleet and provide a relatively safe future. There is greater reason to pay tribute to the cooperation Norway has with Russia, which in many areas shows clear progress. It is a cooperation that takes place in the main sea areas for the growth of Norwegian-Russian fish. However, I have to comment on what we have seen in the last couple of weeks, a significant Russian overfishing in the Barents Sea, which is of a magnitude that can really be threatening for further cooperation. If Russia is not able to sort this out, it is clear that not only can the cooperation collapse, but the reconstruction of the main populations can actually also be threatened. It again affects Norwegian fishing industry to a very significant extent. It is obvious that when you get the amount of illegally traded fish in a market to compete with legally caught fish, it is price-threatening and again a threat to Norwegian fishing industry. This just shows that we need to have a stronger dialogue with Russia in this area. At the same time, we probably have some extreme swings to go ourselves to avoid getting into the same situation – and then I think we don't have to participate to any particular extent in what's going on overfishing. What goes on the illegal placing on the market of fish and transhipment in the Barents Sea, the movement from the Bear Island and into the grey zone, only shows that if anyone is thinking of slacking down on the ropes and reducing Norwegian surveillance, control and the presence of the Coast Guard, there is an immediate need to do so. Otherwise it's just to add that as usual we have a little conflict going on with Iceland. To be honest, I believe that the Minister for Fisheries should not take very seriously, because there is every reason to believe that he will take care of the Norwegian interests in the future as well as they have been taken care of in the last few years. Finally, the King crab is naturally also mentioned in this document. I think that now that you've got your own administration outside the so-called Western border, there's every reason to just make sure that the king crab doesn't get to multiply and crawl west/southward at an uncontrolled pace. This relationship is also mentioned in the Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e514	As we now carry out the annual review and treatment of the fisheries agreements concluded with other countries by Norway, there is reason to express some satisfaction that international understanding and attention to management and resource issues is increasing. Most people have in a way become more aware of these questions. Although we may feel from time to time that we do not have the power to have strong enough focus on this, there is reason to recall that Norway has been a leading country and a driving force, as the rapporteur said. Such management and resource issues have never been easy to deal with either nationally or internationally, nor will they be so in the future. Therefore, the Norwegian authorities have to keep a high level of pressure on such questions. Norway is Europe’s largest sea country and harvests 80 pst. of the areas together with other nations. Here, we have historical rights that it is important to safeguard and manage properly. When we also know that Norway exports seafood to 160 countries, we understand our dependence on fisheries and our responsibility to lead the fight for better management of resources. It is also important for us to have a clear line and turn down illegal fishing and the resource and environmental crime that this really is. I want to spend a little bit of my time putting the spotlight on the large populations of marine mammals, which must also be seen in the context of the resource situation and management. This is a side of the same issue and needs to be much more focused in the debate on how fish resources should be managed. Here it must be the realities that stand in the foreground, not emotions and myths. The stock of whales has increased dramatically since the withdrawal was stopped, and the notified withdrawal from Norway now does not change much on this picture. When the whale takes out more fish than the fishermen get, there's a reason to look at the situation. The cell stock is also a huge problem. We are constantly hearing about fjords that are full of seals, and where the fish are almost gone or so spoiled by kweiss that it cannot be used. This has been discussed by Stortinget before and given clear signals about, but I think it is too little to increase the extraction rate, and to get an exploitation of the raw material from the selenium. There is so much at stake here that the necessary economy for that purpose must not be an obstacle. I now feel that we are in a situation where we get rid of fishermen and viable fishing communities instead of doing something about this huge problem for industry and for society. No one along the coast believes that marine mammals should be removed or taxed at a level where there is a risk to the populations, but here it is a relative tax that relates to the fish resources and to the possibility for humans to harvest them in the future. It is first of all this matter that is at stake, and it must be brought more strongly into the international forums. Perhaps we should listen more to the fishermen's expertise here and to their observations. Let me also use the opportunity to say a few words about the royal crab. I'm recording that there's a discussion about whether the royal crab is a resource or a plague. In fact, I guess it's kind of both. I think it is important to have all the aspects of this matter with you when making decisions. The fact that only approx. 10 pst. of crabs can be commercially exploited, is in itself a challenge. What should happen to the crab that is picked up and not usable? And how can this be exploited? The questions are many, and a lot needs to be clarified. There's more to research here, and we have to do things in the right order. I feel that there is a pressure on this issue in negotiations with Russia, and I think there are good opportunities to agree on measures that prevent further proliferation and that may bring this issue to light and under better control.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e540	St.meld. No 43 for 2002-2003 provides for a clear and transparent review of the fisheries agreements concluded by Norway with the various countries with which we have used agreements. There is a lot to be included in this debate. I'm going to deal with a couple of things that I'm a little busy with. The only thing is the motthol agreement, which is now prolonged and with which I am particularly dissatisfied. The Party of Progress voted against this agreement when it was entered into during the previous accumulation period. My impression of that debate in the main hall was that many parties and representatives in the Stortinget were some with the Progress Party in that this was a bad deal, that it was an agreement that lit only Iceland, and that had no effect on Norway. So it's this typical Norwegian that we're going to be so kind. We shall be so yielding, and we felt so sorry for this fraternal people who live far out in the Atlantic, and who in some of their eyes obviously have nothing more to live on than fish. On the other hand, Icelanders are known to be rather tough in both negotiations and the practice of fishing at sea. So I see no reason why we should be so forgiving to Iceland that we gave them the motthol agreement, which has no value for the Norwegian fishing industry. That is why I would also regret – that was not the right word to use, because it has a parliamentary significance, but at least I do not agree that the Government prolonged this agreement without changing it, and without the Storting getting along with and handy the agreement when he was going to prolongate. But it's done, and we just have to take note of it. The case spokesperson was concerned with this with international cooperation. Clearly, international cooperation is particularly important in the management of marine resources. I think we've come a long way in some areas, and it seems to be going the right way when it comes to some stocks and some partners. That being said, I must say that I would like to support the case-speaker on the EU's draft policy. I also agree with the case-speaker when it comes to overfishing in Russia. I believe that Norwegian government powers have a great responsibility to go in and influence so that we get a single policy when it comes to this with drafts. For us who live in Norway, and who are used to dwelling in nature, it is quite unnatural to extract fish that have come aboard the boat. It's food. Taking food at sea is totally unnatural for us. We have to be able to make other nations realize that it's actually unreasonable. If we first got the fish on board the boat, and he is dead, there is no reasonable reason for that fish to go to sea. In fact, some people in this world need food. Then it's unlikely that we'll bring food on the sea that could have saturated some mouths. In the case of the marine mammals, I agree with the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen. I think we need to use huge resources to drive public information to world opinion and launch a counter-promotion against the campaign that is about self-anguish and pampering being something disgusting that threatens the animal species. We have to reverse the argument and get the international opinion to realize that if we don't fall off these marine mammals, we're not just putting the marine mammals in a dangerous situation when it comes to extinction. Anyone who has studied a little bit of natural science knows that if a population increases, one comes to a point where it becomes a move. Then it's a real danger. And then, at the same time as we let the selenium and the anguish develop, they will reduce the population of our fish species, maybe down to zero, at the same time it will only go a little bit of a flash until these species, too, are so thought that they might go to their root. So we have to make the international community understand that shutting down and managing these marine mammals is a way of preserving them. That's how we can have these animals in our livestock and house them and use them for food, while preserving the stock and the fish stocks that these animals feed on themselves. This I think is one of the most important things. The biggest challenge we're facing is to get the international community to understand what Bendiks H. Arnesen said, that this isn't about feelings, but about the rational management of a resource that's in our coastal areas. When it comes to the royal crab, I'll end up with what was said about him. We come back to the royal crab in connection with the state budget and the management of St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 10, where we've got a statement from the department about what's happening in connection with the royal crab. So I'll leave it so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e555	I'm going to start by saying something about something I really didn't think I was going to come in on, and it's about the relationship with the EU. But I feel the need to comment on it when both the representative Solholm and the representative Kristiansen go so hard on the EU's deplorable fisheries management, that is what the representative Kristiansen said. I think that the two representatives, after joining the same EU, will be something special in this light, for Norway, as a member of the EU, will also become a part of the EU fisheries management. We all think about how it went in winter when the Riksdag expressed its wish for unilateral cessation of Swedish cod fishing in the North Sea. They were told from the EU that they were not allowed to do so, because the cod knows no borders. I found that there is a perspective for the two representatives to have in mind in their eagerness to report Norway into the EU. This annual debate has a bit of a ritual character, and it's going to be a pytipanne debate, where one takes it up one's own feel to comment like one might not have access to otherwise. Last year, the Committee asked the Government to consider whether, in the context of the annual catchment notification on the fisheries agreements concluded with other countries by Norway, it could be appropriate to inform the following, as discussed by the Committee: recommend and effectively set quotas for the main stocks, recommended and actual fish pressure for the main stocks, and stock development for the main stocks. We asked the Government to consider whether this could be the basis for a discussion of the information in relation to the general fisheries policy objectives of resilient and profitable management. SV is associated with the Center Party and the Workers' Party for a comment where we only record that we can't find this assessment in this message, and we thought it was a little strange. I hope that the Council of State, who is present, can answer the question. I would have respected it if the government had submitted a message saying that the assessment has been made and we have not found it necessary to provide this information. And I think it's a little special that once the Storting doesn't even tell you why you don't want to give this information. I also think it's a little special this year, because last year there was a consensual committee, that there's only a minority who are wondering why not get this assessment. I think that the information the committee asked the Government to consider and present would put the whole message in a different light and make the message more interesting. The Committee says that we are pleased that the Government has presented a good and thorough work and has provided good figures. I thought this year's message was very similar to last year's message, and very much to the message from the previous year, so I don't think the job in the department is so time consuming that one couldn't put in other reviews. And just the assessments that we've asked for would put the message in a different light, and that would allow the committee to make some assessments a little bit different. So I'm aware that the information we're asking for is public knowledge. If the government had taken this into account in the message, the information that the government gave would have come in a slightly more interesting context than just an estimate of how many tons you've agreed to fish – it's probably not tons, it's probably a hundred kilos of school a fisherman. So there's something about the perspective of the whole thing. The League of Fishermen has been involved in this year's discussion and has written a letter to the Committee praising the Ministry for its work on a good and transparent communication. It says in the letter: ‘The Association notes, however, that the notification addresses to a small extent the specific challenges Norway faces in individual fisheries negotiations with other countries. At the same time, the processing of notifications by large has contributed little to putting its mark on third-country negotiations.» It seemed to me to be a rather interesting signal from the Federation of Fishermen, in view of the fact that this year's quota agreement with Russia significantly arouses attention and discussion in the fishing environment, especially in relation to the relationship with the EU. The fisherman wrote at the rental place last Tuesday, as a comment to the agreement of the year: ‘With increased quotas for the EU and Iceland, we are seeing increasingly strong outlines of a Barents administration regime where old and new remote fishing actors are rising with increasing quota shares and raw material power. It's a capital intensive trawler fishing that means hard pressure on juveniles and small fish. Both in the short and long term, the Nordic coastal population is losing out on this.» So put it all in context with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which gave coastal states the sovereign the right to manage their own resources. This is a very interesting perspective, and it's a perspective that responds in a way to the challenge of the Fishermen's League on why not The Storting discusses this kind of challenge when a person has an annual message, and why there's not this kind of problem setting that you're addressing, instead of an estimate of the number of tons. So a few words about the resource situation. There was a so-called shock report in ours. «The major fishing teams die» was the title of the report. This is how Asgeir Aglen says to the research website at the Marine Research Institute: ‘It is a kind of law of nature. When you increase the fish pressure, the stocks go down, and it is the largest, oldest fish that disappear first.’ Then he adds that it has a lot of political focus on overfishing also in Norway. Some of our populations are also completely at the bottom of what is acceptable. There has been a wide-ranging debate on the resource situation of our most important species of fish, especially Norwegian-Arctic cod. The Committee writes that an interested person will follow the expectation of a rebuilding of the stock. We have felt the need to put this a little bit into an understanding framework in relation to what researchers are actually saying about stock recovery expectations. We have taken on board ICES's advice when it comes to Norwegian-Arctic cod, and found it necessary to say that ICES's advice on quotas that were 100,000 tonnes below what Norway and Russia were about was reinforced by the need to rebuild the age structure of the population, because most of the spawning population is still first-time glaciers. It is clear that there is a qualitative aspect to the advice of researchers that is unlikely to be difficult to obtain in the public debate. In the media, the researchers say that it's now a crisis, or that now it's free of cod, or that now it's all turned around, now it's going to be good times. There are just such characters I would like the Committee to be able to get information through the message in order to be better able to understand the actual situation. It is also an important aspect that the Marine Research Institute comments on the current resource situation of the year by saying that the stock assessment of the year represents a significant review of the stock, compared with the stock assessment a year ago, and they say at the same time that the uncertainty is greater than in the past. There's a shade that never comes out in the public debate, there's a shade that I thought Stortinget should be allowed to decide. I just want to comment that we from SV's side are very satisfied with the work that the government has done in relation to reforms regarding the composition of the negotiating delegation on the Norwegian side in the negotiations with Russia. Last year, the most northern counties dropped out with a representative in the delegation, and this year, Norway's Coastal Fisheries Team has dropped out. I'm very satisfied with that, and I want to give the Council of State credit for seeing the value of doing just that. I hope that those reforms will continue, and that the debate we had on SV's Document No. Eight proposals for more openness and democratic participation in the Norwegian quota negotiations continue. We don't have anything to do with slowing down, if evolution goes in the right direction. I won't comment on sea mammals or royal crabs; others have done before me. We get a sea mammals report for treatment for spring. I have just a small comment to make to the representative Solholm, who says that we should launch a counter-promotion against the disinformation provided by various organisations about the Norwegian administration of marine mammals. I found it sad that one in the budgetary agreement between the Government and the Labour Party actually cut off the promises of the organisations that have to work with that kind of information. That is why I agree with the representative of Solholm that it is an important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e609	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e612	It was probably more a public misunderstanding that the representative Elvik meant that I was going to go away to get Norway into the EU. It's actually rather the opposite, and the reason why it's actually the fishing industry, which makes me a little reluctant.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e617	It was a very clarifying line. There must be a serious error in the communication between the two representatives – and I apologize to the representative Solholm. And that line I got, I'm slipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e622	They're asking if the joy will last.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e625	I don't think the representative Elvik has any reason to complain about my post. But I think that when you start to criticise the message to the extent that the representative Elvik does, and relates to things that are of new date and that have arisen so long after this message has actually been written, I feel that you do not even participate in the same arena as this debate is taking place. So a little bit about this EU debate. What kind of success have we had in terms of fisheries management with our outreach? I think it is very easy to answer when we look at how the EU has been able to do its own – as was said – ‘deplorable fisheries management’. And with that in mind, and as an argument, my question to Åsa Elvik: Is it not true that in this particular area, where we are an international power and we have the best international knowledge, EU membership could have meant that Norway had both hands on the administrative apparatus and influenced and developed the EU's fisheries policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e633	And I was so happy when the representative Kristiansen followed up the line from Solholm – I had expected that I had been wrong when it broke even a yes-man, but unfortunately I don't. When it comes to the debate on Norwegian EU membership, which Kristiansen uses as an argument, I thought that I should follow the negotiations on the management of cod in the North Sea, which is taking place between Norway and the EU now, quite carefully, where there is a significant internal conflict in the EU, and where it turns out that the countries that are on the way are some with us in how one should manage fish, lose, go time and time again and again. One has tried to tackle major reforms in the EU’s fisheries policy, but it turns out that countries, such as the United States and Japan, are Spain, which has completely different interests before fisheries management, is the one who wins through, while those who are with us, such as Sweden and Denmark, lose out repeatedly. I don't think Norway with its small population would have played any special role in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e640	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e643	Unlike the previous speaker, I am pleased and happy, because I think this is a message that provides a thorough and good review and a good overview of the level and extent of the fisheries agreements with other countries, while at the same time highlighting an increasing awareness of and attention to fisheries and resource management. There is also talk here of what kind of control measures are in place and an overview of the utilisation of allowances. I think it's hard to get enough attention around the challenges of sustainable development and sustainable resource management as a whole. It is therefore important that we in Norway work extensively — both internationally and regionally — on the fishing challenges, on the basis of a precautionary principle. Long-term management plans for the common stocks are important here. Such plans and their follow-up provide the basis for achieving the objective of sustainable development. It is essential that common and long-term management, research and control solutions are developed for different populations. Let me, for example. mentioned Norwegian Arctic cod in the Barents Sea. It is essential that we work even more internationally for a common regulatory framework on these types of issues, where we look at the challenges we face in relation to different populations, for example. North Sea. The challenges are many, and it is positive that the message focuses on, among other things. draft fish. This occurs when there is no more quota, when the fish is taken below minimum or when the fish has been taken against by-catch rules. Here the work done by the European Commission is positive. It is important to further develop good international control. In the case of cod fishing in the North Sea, there is cause for concern in relation to the stock situation. We have also heard in other articles about the soldering stock and about the king crab. In relation to these stocks, which are endangered by extinction, it is important to continue with active and good research, with a view to identifying future impacts as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e656	There are two main objectives for the Government in the fisheries negotiations we are conducting with other countries, namely biological sustainability and stability. I therefore fully agree with the rapporteur when, on behalf of the Committee, he expresses the ambition that Norway should be at the forefront of all issues relating to sustainable resource management. We do that, and we'll keep doing that. If the industry is to realise its full potential, be viable and be a supporter of the Norwegian economy after the oil age ends, we need to take into account sustainability – not short-term popularity considerations. At the same time, however, this overall consideration, sustainability, must also meet the needs of industry and the coast for maximum predictability and stability, precisely in order to achieve both economic and ecological sustainability. It is also essential for the maintenance of the housing pattern. We clearly have this better than most fishing nations, something the case rapporteur, Mr Kristiansen, had in mind in his speech. I note with satisfaction that the Committee is also of the opinion that Norwegian-Russian fishing cooperation shows progress in several areas. It is Norwegian-Russian fishing cooperation that is the most widespread and most important – in economic and biological terms. The fact is that we have now achieved long-term management plans for both cod and hay in the Barents Sea, which take into account biologically sound management as well as the stability and predictability of the fishing industry in Norway and Russia. The quotas adopted a week ago, during the last session of the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission, according to the management plans that we drew up last year, will ensure that, according to the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, the spawning population of the two main common stocks in the Barents Sea will now continue to increase to levels far above the recommended stocks. Therefore, it is likely to be somewhat misleading when Åsa Elvik explains that following the negotiations, third country quotas are increasing this year. It is such that the EU and other third countries have a fixed percentage of the total quota for Norwegian-Arctic cod. When the Norwegian-Arctic cod quota rises, EU and other third country quotas will also rise in absolute terms. This was the case during the year’s quota negotiations, as the quota of Norwegian-Arctic cod increased. The reason why the quota for Norwegian fishermen did not increase to the same extent, relative to the EU and other third countries, was that the Norwegian coastal cod quota was halved. It is therefore not correct, as has been claimed, that the share of the EU and other countries in the quota of Norwegian-Arctic cod has increased. Furthermore, Norway and Russia have now established a western border for the spread of royal crabs, which will give Norway the necessary freedom to determine the measures that we consider necessary and appropriate to prevent or limit the further spread of this introduced species. We're now working to quickly establish a government regime south of this boundary. Last but not least, Norway and Russia have agreed to establish a new control regime with their primary objective of tackling the problem of unregistered transhipment in the Barents Sea. This is a point of the agreement which has been concluded this year, and which I have great hopes of also in a tax context. One of the main elements of this regime will be a system of licences for gross quota exceedances. A ‘blacklisting scheme’, which the Committee calls for, could be relevant in this respect. At least I have hopes that what we achieved this year will prove to be an answer to what the committee is asking for in the vote. However, in terms of weights in the Barents Sea, it is unfortunately nature and not the administrators who are raw. Although we have followed the advice every year since the catch was resumed in 1999, the stock is now just as full in such a critical state that there will be no fishing at all in 2004. I mention this as an example that even if you follow the advice, there is a biological uncertainty that will always be present. Several of the speakers have been involved in the marine mammals – and their harvesting – and the need for us to have a sound management of the resource that the marine mammals represent. I'm not going to say anything more about this than to show that we're coming up with a big message next year that will provide the Stortinget with a good basis for discussing a future management policy. I should like to comment briefly on a statement by the representative of Solholm concerning Iceland. He said that it's typical Norwegian to be kind, that we feel sorry for Iceland, and that it's going to lead the negotiations we're doing. I want to make it quite clear that there are no emotions, but zone belongings that underlie the negotiations we are having with Iceland, not least with regard to NVG-silda, where the goal of a Norwegian share of 70 pst. Stands firm. This year we have achieved 1 pst. increase, which is not sufficient, but it shows that there are no feelings at the root of the negotiations we are conducting. I am absolutely sure that the Icelanders will not see us as particularly kind or yielding in that way. Just as the Business Committee also sees the Government seriously in the situation of the bottom fish stocks in the North Sea in general and in the cod population in particular. We've been doing that for a long time. The rapporteur referred to the management of the European Union as deplorable. I'm not going to comment on that. However, the Ministry of Fisheries has long been an active driver in the negotiations with the EU in order to put in place management strategies for, among others. cod. That is why we have worked hard to improve the pattern of taxation in the North Sea through a number of regulatory technical measures. There is no doubt that Norway has had a proper influence on the EU fisheries policy. That is why we have pressed for the lifting of the EU draft directive, which we believe is completely contrary to all reasonable administrative principles, as the representative of Solholm rightly pointed out. At the same time, we must realise that the EU has a share of 87 pst. of this population, and Norway only 13 pst. It is therefore the EU that clearly has the greatest interests in this population, and clearly the greatest responsibility for maintaining it. Having said that, however, I would like to stress that we are continually considering further measures to protect this stock. However, in order for the measures to be as effective as possible, we need to have the EU ‘on board’. I will not comment on the EU debate that has been here, but it is a fact that we are in intervention, and we see that Norway has influence precisely because we are a major force in the management of resources. But it's a long way to go. As regards the big message itself, I noticed that last year the majority of the committee also asked us to consider informing them about: recommended and fixed quotas for the main stocks recommended and actual fish pressure for the main stock development for the main stocks and assess whether this could provide a basis for a discussion of the data in relation to the general fisheries policy objectives on sustainable and profitable management. The last thing was the representative Åsa Elvik inside. We actually carried out this assessment, and it resulted in a whole new chapter of the Communication, more specifically Chapter 4, on long-term management plans. I noticed that you felt that it was not a sufficient answer. However, as these management plans underpin the management of the vast majority of the main commercial fish stocks in Norway share with other countries, we thought this would be a good illustration of the long-term sustainability and profitability underlying the management of these stocks. It shall be admitted that answering the specific questions raised by the majority is not entirely straightforward. The concept instrument used in the biological advice provides room for different interpretations. It is a challenge for researchers, management and politicians to explain complex biological relationships in a pedagogically understandable way to the public. It's a challenge for many of us. I think it might be right to stress that next year's Arctic cod quota is 398 000 tonnes, while next year's quota is set at 486 000 tonnes after negotiations with the Russians. This does not mean that we have failed to establish the precautionary principle in setting the quotas for 2004. The 2004 cod quotas are based on the administrative and fiscal strategy adopted by Norway and Russia during the last year’s session, underpinning sustainability and stability of the industry. The only thing that separates the set quota from the ICES recommended quota is that ICES has only planned to keep the product take-off for one year to come, while the tax strategy is based on an average leading commodity take-off for three years to come, as I have also explained earlier in the Stortinget. According to the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, the adopted total quota will ensure that the spawning stock of cod will now continue to rise to a level far above the recommended level of supply for that stock.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e715	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e718	I did not think that Chapter 4 of the related message, which refers to the long-term agreements concluded on the management of the files concerned, is the answer to the question. The Committee asked for a comparison between recommended quotas and set quotas, between recommended fish pressure and actual fish pressure and stock development for the main populations in view of the target population. Therefore, I did not think Chapter 4 was an answer to that question. However, I record that the Council of State felt that he had responded to what the Stortinget asked for, and I am pleased that he is living in confidence about it. But I disagree that there was an answer to the question. When it comes to the 2004 quota, the message does not deal with it, so it is not a debate. But it also deals with what is stated in Chapter 4 on long-term management strategies. For what is the Council of State's comment that the Marine Research Institute says that they cannot recommend a set of quotas in accordance with the rule, because it is far too uncertain whether the long-term rule will lead to a resilient withdrawal of cod, first and foremost?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e725	The Institute of Marine Research, which is our foremost professional body, supports the management strategy we now have, and the outcome of this year's negotiations. There is no disagreement in this way between the Institute of Marine Research, the Department and the Government. In the case of Chapter 4, I record that there are different opinions about how the answer should have been designed. Let me link it to the fact that ICES is currently working on developing a conceptual instrument to try to provide a clearer picture of the actual situation of individual stocks. We hope that they will be able to do that in a relatively short time. It'll be able to give us new input into the great news we're going to deliver next year. We shall then try to provide further information in the notification in line with the concepts that ICES has been able to develop in relation to the biological advice. We're going to do our utmost to make what we're presenting further understandable. Otherwise, I register that there is a broad consensus that the message is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e732	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3 [[See page 508]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e750	The size shall now address a proposal to derogate from the requirement to hold a food-fish concession for the production of eggs from mature salmon and rainbow trout. The Committee is divided into views. Everyone, with the exception of the representatives of the Progress Party, believes that such a conversion needs to be further assessed. Today, we have restrictive practices in awarding concessions for salmon and trout breeding by limiting the number of concessions, by requiring remuneration for concessions, and by granting concessions through own allocation rounds. This strict practice has a background in the market situation for salmon and trout. The majority are aware that eggs from trout and salmon cannot be considered as a product which competes with fish meat from trout and salmon, but nevertheless considers that the production of eggs must be linked to a concession system and not only to the discharge rules and veterinary considerations. This is also important for market reasons. In the light of this, the Committee calls on the Government to assess whether fishmeal production can be exempted from the food concession and that this can be done in the context of the review of the Law on Aquaculture. Raising salmon and trout for special purposes raises several questions that need to be resolved. The Committee therefore welcomes the establishment of a selection with a mandate to develop a new R & D concession legislation and to find solutions for the implementation of concessions for specific purposes, including concessions where the production of edible fish does not constitute the main purpose of the concession. There is no disagreement that it is important to invest in fisheries and farming and innovation in the future. It is therefore also important to ensure that all parts of the production are carried out in controlled and good forms. The Committee asks the Government to continue to assess the legislation on concessions in the breeding industry so that the activity and innovation are not unduly hindered in its development work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e769	I get to say it so that I am somewhat disappointed and somewhat happy. I am disappointed because one is not willing to go all the way in for the Progress Party's Document No. Eight proposals and none of them will support the proposals we are making. The joy is that I know through the process that we've come a bit on the right way to that when it comes to the production of eggs, it shouldn't be an obstacle to having a food fish concession to get it done. This is how I feel about myself. What I've been feeling about is that we're all talking about farming becoming our future industry. It's the industry that might take over and give us the economy after the economy that oil has created for us, and – can say – continue our welfare society at a high level. But at the same time, the majority in Stortinget are putting up with the greatest possible obstacles to this becoming an industry that can develop in freedom to become value-creating, and to become the growth industry that we all want and not least think it will be. We think she's going to be a good nutrition and a growth diet, but then we're going to put obstacles in the way. It is not an unknown matter that we in the Progress Party do not see the need for concessions in this area. We thought there should be business freedom in Norway, and that anyone who wants to start a business must be able to do so. Then there are some veterinary and environmental requirements. These are the only requirements we want to set. When, for a while at the same time, we thought that there might be obstacles to the production of food fish, because there is no competitive relationship between food fish production and the production of fish eggs. The fact that you're going to use a concession that's calculated on food, to raise eggs, makes it something that's creeping in my ears. As I said, I can't see that this is any kind of competition at all. Nevertheless, it is great that the Committee – we have got a joint committee – in the context of the review of marine law asks the Government to assess whether fish farming can be exempted from the food concession. It's also positive. I just hope that the Council of State takes it seriously and can get it done reasonably quickly, so that as they are currently perhaps using a food fish concession for fish roe production, they can not do it. In these words, I will present the suggestions made by the Progress Party in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e784	The representative of Lodve Solholm has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e787	My approach to the proposal to derogate from the requirement to hold a food-fish concession for the production of eggs from mature salmon and rainbow trout is that there has been a broad consensus in the Storting that salmon and trout production should be regulated by granting concessions. It is also government policy, unlike in the case of new species, where there is freedom of establishment when taking into account the environment and locality. The industry and changing governments have also understood and practised the legislation to the effect that within an acquired concession it was up to each producer to determine the use and product to be produced. Therefore, farms have also produced eggs for more than 20 years within the production volume on which they have been based in a food-fish concession. I take it inward that the representative of Solholm stresses that the Progress Party has a different approach to this, namely the freedom of establishment within the industry. Here's the policy that's different. I note that in the case of the industry, the current legislation does not prevent the production of eggs, but that such production must take place within the framework of a food-fish concession. It is therefore up to the individual holder of a concession to decide whether he wants to produce eggs, but it must happen, as I said, within the volume of production that he has. I also find it difficult within the current framework to define the use of salmon and trout as a criterion for exempting certain parts of the production from the concession requirement, or to exempt the applicant from the concession fee for new concessions of 5 million. kr, which everyone now has to pay, with the exception of those in the action zone. The Ministry of Fisheries has always conducted restrictive practices in the award of concessions and the Stortinget has led the award process. Both concession fees and allocations are required through allocation rounds, as is well known. A week ago, the deadline for applying for the award of the 50 new concessions, which could also be used — if any interested — to produce eggs. We find that 138 applicants have applied for the 50 concessions. It shows that there is increasing optimism in the industry, and I am very pleased with the interest in the farming industry in the new concessions. But any new rock production must happen within these 50 new concessions. The Ministry of Fisheries has also informed the companies concerned, and the applicant is also prepared to pay the 5 million concession fee. kr, which will also apply to fish eggs production. I have noticed that the majority of the Business Committee shares the Government's view that concessions for the rearing of salmon and trout for special purposes raise more questions. I have also noticed that the majority believes that the production of eggs, among other things. Whereas market reasons must be linked to a system of concession and not merely to the rules governing discharges and veterinary purposes; The Committee expresses in its opinion that it is important to invest in the farming industry in the future and that there is a need to focus on innovation in this respect. It is a view that the Government fully shares with the Committee, and in this context I am also concerned that farming legislation should not be an unnecessary obstacle to growth in industry. That is why I have already started work on a new Law on Aquaculture, and in this context we will set up a special selection which will be mandated to look into whether we should have a separate R & D concession legislation and a separate legislation to address the issue as Document No. The 8-proposal took up. In this context, we will also invite business organisations to participate. Then we get a new and comprehensive assessment, where the Storting will also get a word in the team when the new Law on Aquaculture comes into effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e802	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 508]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e821	When we spend less than 30 billion dollars each year on the defense, we have to be absolutely sure of the following: Firstly, the Norwegian people must be sure that the defence will safeguard our security in the face of current threats. Secondly, parents must be sure that when their sons are called to the first duty — and some daughters do so voluntarily — the safety of practice shall be such that no accidents occur in which soldiers are killed or severely injured. These two assumptions must be crystal clear. If not, the defense will lose confidence in the population. The political system must give the defence a clear message that safety must be put in the high seat. Clear and comprehensible safety guidelines need to be developed in addition to the need for command to have the necessary basic knowledge and experience to make them self-confident in the leadership role in which they are deployed. I have two children, aged 19 and 21. They have a circle of friends, where there are both sheltered young men in the first duty and, in fact, friends who have chosen to enter the Defense. I therefore have the situation of guardians rather close to me as a mother and in relation to these friends, as well as my responsibility as head of the Defence Committee. It makes a deep impression to meet parents of young men who have been killed in peacetime defence exercises, killed in accidents where several breaches of the applicable security regulations have been subsequently revealed. It has also been shown that the command that took part in the exercises and gave the direct orders out did not have an in-depth knowledge of the safety rules underlying that type of exercise. There was not enough good preparation, and there was no proper exercise material there. And even worse, the responsible officer had not assured himself that those who were ordered to lead were qualified for the task. This is simply a slurry and, of course, completely unacceptable. And it really doesn't make sense to argue that there are more young men who die outside the defense than in the defense, among other things. in the event of a car accident. These young boys are ordered into the King's clothes as part of the duty of protection. Today it's just below 50 pst. of the annual coal in question serving initial service. Then the service must be of quality, it must be meaningful, and – as the general inspector of the army wrote in the evening post yesterday – ‘It is in the nature of the matter that the activities we carry out, including in peacetime, are associated with a number of risks’. The safety provisions must then be strict. What is the failure, and what concrete measures can be taken to prevent accidents? We've had three deaths in seven months. In addition, the health of the defence registered 707 damage to the protected last year! We also know that there are dark numbers on near-accidents. For example, five soldiers recently entered a firing range where sharp shooting took place during the exercise "You Life" in Troms. The training team admitted that it had not checked if there was any activity on the shooting range, which is just off the terrain where the exercise took place. The point of orientation was also too close to the shooting range. A person with a good knowledge of the Defense called me and asked: ‘How old was the sergeant who placed that post there? What kind of experience and knowledge in relevant military subjects did he have?" I will challenge the Minister of Defence in the following areas that I believe may be relevant in order to improve security during exercises in the Defence: In that Evening Post article, Inspector General Lars J. Sylvberg proposes that the security issue be raised as a strategic issue in the management of the Army, as a priority area on which all leaders should have a continuous and active focus. He will establish a new function as security inspector in the Army and a person responsible for personnel security in each department. Will the Council of State Krohn Devold contribute to the implementation of the GIH proposal for the entire defence? Can accidents in any way be linked to specific features of the defence? Can military education, for example, be behind it? Is it the order’s experience – or lack of experience, or is it the order’s low age that can lie behind? Are there no practice budgets? Or is there an interaction between all of these reasons, and maybe even a few more in addition? How are commanding officers and wives to gain experience? Everyone has to learn to crawl before they can walk, and a young command has to try it while they're still inexperienced, of course. The point is that the testable young command must be adequately supervised, in other words, in a school or training situation. Field exercises are exactly that. They are exercises – and exercises create mastery – for both soldiers and commanders. I'd like to ask the Council of State if she will take the initiative that the Troops Commands out there have more experience and perhaps greater age than today's? However, as important as age, maturity, experience and ability to reflect are. What does the young man commanded at the Falcon School teach? Modern leaders don't roar the recruits through the loops. If we're to get skilled soldiers, good subjects for special forces and avoid smurf and accidents, there must be as much intellectual intelligence as macho culture in leadership training. The cultivation of a competitive mentality combined with an order culture can go on chords with security. If there is an unculture, the first step is to tackle it by admitting that it actually exists. When the Department – with great probability of spring – proposes a new model of education for the defence in the coming long-term plan, I would ask the Council of State to take these factors into account. When the security provisions are broken, there is a question of basic basic knowledge that has been neglected. For example, an officer sent me an e-mail saying that a chestnut to a line would have saved the life of the boy who died when he crossed a water in Troms. But there is also another question that pushes on: The practice assignments must be approved further up. The officer in charge shall just take into account the subordinate command sufficiently experienced to provide such training. The security provisions must not give rise to doubt. At the same time, the defence must improve the assessment of soldiers' learning and self-assessment. Without self-assessment and the learning outcomes achieved, the learning place cannot be developed into a learning organisation, the trustees of the defence guardians write in a note that I have received, where they also make many constructive suggestions on how to resolve security issues in the defence. The trustees of the guardians are at all an institution to which it is worth listening. Here the defense has a good deal to learn. It is rarely profitable to reduce the quality of education that a society provides to its citizens. Competence costs, but incompetence costs more. Unfortunately, this year's three deaths among guardians have been shown. I can add that after visiting I have also raised issues where soldiers have been injured. The same soldiers feel that they have not been sufficiently followed up by the Defense after the damage has happened. In other words, does the defense lack a network to deal with those responsible for protection who may be both damaged and incapacitated for the rest of their lives? And is it that we also lack a network to deal with the relatives of young boys and possibly girls who die in the Defense? We've had a very good network of relatives who went from Orland to Kyrgyzstan. I must say that I can almost not get full rust how good it was. I think maybe the entire defense needs to look at a network function and deal with this by taking care of a mother and a father, possibly a sister and a brother, after such accidents occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e873	The representative Nybakk addresses a very important topic. When the defence demands the efforts of young people, it is a clear premise that the service must take place under the most secure conditions possible. The defense is aware that the initial service represents an effort by our young people. This leads to a great responsibility, and we cannot allow life and health to be jeopardized. In the culture of defence, there is a clear understanding of the importance of taking care of the soldiers. This is not just a decisive factor in being able to succeed in a military operation. Security has a value in itself. This is the attitude of the entire Defense to the seventh and last based. On 20 August of this year, the Chief of Defence sent a letter to all the heads of department, just highlighting the importance of ensuring full security, not least in situations of conversion and labour pressure. The Defence Manager pointed out in his letter that all Heads of Department must set aside time to review security within their area of responsibility. In the letter, the head of defence also stresses that the defence does not accept that personnel are injured or exposed to accidents. As a body, the Defence shall have a continuous focus on this objective. The commander of the land also wrote this summer to all of the Army's peace-operational departments and intensified compliance with security regulations. The country commander pointed out that there appears to be no lack of safety regulations as such, but that the command had to understand them and comply with the requirements, even in a practice situation. I am pleased with this opportunity to highlight various aspects of what has been done to ensure that the defence is a safe workplace, both for those under protection and for the order, and not least what we are going to do in the future. In a letter to the Ministry of Defence dated 3 November 2003, the Armed Forces team pointed out that the defence often has a young command on the basic plane, typically exemplified at the level of the officer. These often have limited experience and maturity. There have been structural reasons why the command has had a short working time in the team positions. This system was previously rational. Today we need other solutions. The Defence Staff therefore points out that a new command system must facilitate older and more experienced command in basic management positions. Greater professional and managerial experience will enable managers to better assess safety risks. Experience is crucial here. That is, leaders with better and more authority can keep overview and focus in demanding situations. They will be able to take with greater maturity ethical responsibility for the security of the subordinates. The Armed Forces believe that a new command will give us such greater security in a substantial part of the service carried out by the soldiers. The Defence Manager gave his preliminary views on the military professional investigation in the draft basic document for the protection obligation, initial service and new command system, dated 15 September 2003. Here he outlines a system in which a new category of command is established, with specialised and experience-based competence, to serve at a lower level of defence – just as the interpellant calls for. This is proposed in order to provide for a new continuity and high technical and technical competence in the departments. The Defence Manager's final proposal will come in December. But I can say here and now that I fully share the Chief of Defense's view of doing something about this particular situation. Good and up-to-date safety requirements are a prerequisite for the defence to be a safe workplace. The security provisions applicable to the defence sectors are planned to be revised every two years to include experience and, in particular, continuous improvements in legislation. New guidelines for the organisation and implementation of health, the environment and security of defence were launched in 2001. The guidelines cover both the organisation of the work of the HMS and measures to enhance competence. A letter from the Defence Staff dated 3 November states that they are now fully operational. In the previously mentioned letter, the Defence Staff also refers to the following measures for training in the HMS for the soldiers: In cooperation with the Trust Council – I share Marit Nybakk's view that the Trust Council has a very valuable function – the Defence Staff has organised its own HMS course. There are also informal meetings between the parties, where such issues are discussed. The soldier's course in HMS also serves as an introductory course in the theme of the command. In addition, the Defence Staff informs that the following measures have been taken in relation to training in HMS for command: In cooperation with the University of Tromsø, the Defence Study Centre at the 6th Division in Troms has established its own basic subject in HMS. The first coal is graduated this year and a short version of the course is conducted twice a year for selected leaders. All these measures contribute to raising the level of health, environment and security in the Defence, while at the same time contributing to the promotion of health, environment and safety at university level as a priority area of responsibility for the Defence. Here I also fully agree with the Secretary-General of the Army, who will make security issues a strategic priority area in the Army. Defence will also continue to work towards developing good health, environmental and safety attitudes, in order to enforce legislation in relation to all situations and all affected. A major challenge is to translate theoretical and practical knowledge into attitudes that focus on safety in all situations. In order to advance this awareness-raising work, the Defence Agency is implementing new pedagogical methods, including its own security training computer program. We should not forget that more serious accidents occur in the ordinary Norwegian male youth in this age group than among those in the first time. However, there is a lean comfort for those affected. The defence shall safeguard the confidence of parents and young guardians in the defence of the performance of the duty of protection, and the defence shall aim to become a safer job in the time to come. This is guaranteed very high priority from the Chief of Defense. In relation to the challenges that the interpellant addressed, I would like to confirm that I fully support the Inspector General of the Army's proposal to make security issues a strategic area in the Army, and I think it is a good idea to do the same for the rest of the Defense. I fully agree that the peculiarities we have had in Defence, with a low age of command and perhaps to some extent insufficient experience on command, are a challenge we have to do something about quickly, and that will meet both the defense chief's proposals in December and my proposal for spring. That's something we're in complete agreement on. It's also important, as the interpellant was about, to focus on attitudes. What do you learn during command training? I am glad that we no longer have an orderly defence, or a defense with a 'fear command'. The defence focuses on modern management and on appointing and developing people who think for themselves, who take responsibility, and who do not depend on being detailed. Being this kind of thinking command often requires having experience, not least it requires emphasis on attitudes at the strategic level. It will also be used in the reorganization of education that we are going through to spring. There was also a brief mention of it with approved practice arrangements. Here I share the view of the interpellant, that it is the overall responsibility to ensure that the subordinate command that is responsible for an exercise is experienced enough to take full responsibility. We've been in charge of the elected members of the security force. We had a meeting with them just a week ago, and we actually agreed on most of it, both in terms of status-raising measures for those under protection, better education and, not least, increased emphasis on security. We also agree that networks after damage, as the Defence Agency has done in the case of international operations – the inter-pellant referred to Kyrgyzstan – may also be important to look at domestic matters. My experience shows that there is not always follow-up in the next two weeks that is the main problem; it is the long-term contact and not least help, comfort and support at the emotional level for a long time afterwards. I find the theme that the interpellant is dealing with is extremely difficult. I find it as difficult as sending Norwegian soldiers to dangerous operations outside. There is a risk associated with the activity the defense is doing, but I can promise that we will do our very best to minimise the risk. So, in addition to ensuring that the current legislation is followed, there will be a series of actions for spring that are just taking the challenges seriously, just as the interpellant has pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e915	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I have some comments in this round. First of all, I'm very pleased that the points I picked up are going to be positive, and what we have to hope for is that they are going to be implemented, because that's the practical follow-up of this that becomes important. And then to some themes that seem to be a little bit controversial. One relates to age – I have found that there is a disagreement about this in the defense. But it may well be said that a 25-year-old has more life experience than a 20-year-old and will also have more competence and more experience from the Defense. I am not pre-empting any treatment of the command system, but we must at least acknowledge that a 20-year-old sergeant standing in front of 30 peers, perhaps really, is very vulnerable. Uncertainty can lead to greater challenges than they should have been. We also know all the 20-year-olds want to detonate borders, and maybe even make them. Then it is important that we recognize that the 20-year-old sergeants who have been responsible are also victims in such cases, with parents suffering, and that it should perhaps reinforce the requirement for older officers, or that there is always a superior. Then it's the macho culture. The question is whether the focus on the whole can sometimes go on chords with certainty. At least there's something that needs to be considered. This is a well-known phenomenon in military departments. It is positive for the team spirit and integration of military units, and it is also necessary. But it can be at the expense of the individual soldier's need for development and security. Paradoxically, during the drowning accident in Troms, a warning was given. In the reports of the accident we can read that two layers of six soldiers crossed Langwater before the team of the accident. One of the soldiers was convulsed and had to be taken ashore by the rescue boat, without this being considered critical by the security officers. Why are such signals not taken seriously? Does this have to do with attitudes, or with knowledge? The on-the-spot order shows what must best be characterised as a lack of perspective, but the defence does not admit that such an unculture exists. So for the treatment of relatives, which I will also come back to in my last post. I have examples showing that the defense is totally ignorant of following up the families of the accident. Parents and other relatives meet the wall. They can't get to the defense, nor to the ministry. I have spoken to prominent officers who admit that in this respect, the defense has no competence or practice to deal with. It's salty in already open wounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e930	This is in many ways a very sad debate, but to the most extent necessary. The instruments that the interpellant points to, and which the Council of State stresses in its response, I think are good. I really hope that the work that will now be done both in the department and perhaps later in this house will help us to get a situation where parents and families dare to send the young men and women in the defense without the risk assessment that has been particularly valid lately. What I wanted to introduce to the debate and underline, which is particularly important in this area too, is what the representative Nybakk now addressed at the bottom of his speech, the question of what is done in relation to the survivors, relatives and injured when the accident has already happened. There I have to say that my contact with both the offended and the deceased also indicates that we have a job to do to the greatest extent. Here we talk about the simple grips in many ways. It is not about inventing the powder, nor is it expensive. It is likely that having a very conscious policy on this issue will be the most reasonable solution in the long term. There are three elements in this that I want to underline. First of all, there is a very urgent need for information. That information need is not only acute, but it persists. Secondly, it is my opinion that the defence, in line with some other public authorities, should be able to assist more fully in providing both injured, dependent and deceased legally qualified assistance, primarily in order to clarify the image of the right, but not least in order to contribute to the functioning of the information flow – an explanation of what has happened, and an explanation of what rights you have. Finally, such assistance could also help to ensure that some of the damage is made easier to repair by promoting claims and, if necessary, by getting uplifted, so that not the relatives are struggling with it in retrospect and not just salt in the wound, but an extra burden on what already feels so infinitely heavy. The third is what the Council of State was about, and also the interpellant, the question of networks, that it could help not only that the public sector left behind, relatives and injured, but also that others who have been in the same situation form networks once the accident has happened. These are aspects that, in my opinion, will contribute to the fact that accidents that happen do not evolve into a double accident.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e939	Like the Council of State, I would like to stress the importance of discussing this matter. It's noticing that it's coming now. At the end of October, the Defence Committee visited the 6th Division. We got an introduction to a safety idea that is quite unique to a lot of employers that I have been to. The fact that you were going to have a macho and command culture in Defense that would lie as an underlying premise for almost automatically creating accidents, I was not able to discover through the letter we received at the various departments in the 6th division. Then we're in a phase from this visit until we get the new long-term message. The Minister of Defence has explained in detail that all the issues that can now be addressed here will be dealt with, first in a recommendation from the head of defence to the Department, and then from the department to the Stortinget, where we can really get the opportunity to address these issues. We've had three tragic deaths in the last year. Of course, it's three too many. Not much experience is required to understand how this affects the relatives. The experiences they have can be different. All of these three things are too different. One of them circulates in the legal system, and at least we should be careful to interfere with the treatment. I think, as Knut Storberget said, that to the extent that it is not in place, that part of the treatment afterwards, to be able to assist legally, should be given the highest priority. This might even happen before you get the new treatment in Stortinget. However, I would warn against creating a general impression that the defence is taking security lightly. I do not think that can be supported by the experience the Committee has gained from the visits we have made in the departments. As the Council of State said, this is not a harmless profession. It's possible it's a lean comfort, but it's a rather complicated society we live in. So I'd rather end this way and say that I think the defense is a good employer in this area as well. But we're going to have an absolute zero vision of accidents. I hope and believe that the further treatment will show that the defence takes this situation, as they already take seriously, even more seriously, and that hopefully we can achieve even better results.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e950	This is an important debate, and it is very good that the interpellant has addressed the topic. So far, it's pretty much the impression that there's a lot of misery. That's not right, and I think it's important to create some balance in what's been said so far. I think it's very regrettable that the media recently has had an atmosphere against the Defense where the impression is created that it is unsafe to serve as a soldier. In the light of very tragic accidents, there has been damage to give the impression that the defence in general does not take its task seriously, such as providing adequate security and security for our soldiers. I feel that the defense does not in any way allow for such an easy attitude towards the cause of accidents. Therefore, I am pleased that the defense itself attaches so much importance to following up what the accident commission has revealed as causes in the individual cases, and that there is now also a monitoring and recording of what we can call near-accidents. My view is that it must be the professional reports of the accident commissions that must form the basis for our follow-up to what should be done in order to avoid new accidents. I believe that the Commission reports and to a lesser extent the headlines of the papers should be more addressed in order to meet the challenges facing us jointly in preventing accidents in the defence. The resource situation of the operational departments is important in order to be able to use more experienced officers during exercises in support of those who are younger and more inexperienced. It is in my opinion a derailment to require an age limit for the younger command to lead soldiers. It would not solve the security challenges the defence is facing. On the contrary, the younger command must be inexperienced in dealing with older and more experienced officers before they themselves can become more experienced. This must be a matter of course in defence, as elsewhere in the world of work. Older orders are sufficient in the operational departments. These must be used to follow younger ones, to the extent that the younger command is not left to itself by a lack of resources. Then there's a concern about the security training itself in the Defense. I have received information that teaching in the current safety regulations is very deficient at the command schools, uncertain for what reason. This, of course, cannot be accepted. It would be interesting to hear the views of the Council of State on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e963	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good initiative from the inter-pellant. This is a very serious topic that is worthy of attention. About 700 soldiers are injured annually in Norwegian defence and outside service. In addition, we have fatal accidents. This is 700 too many. This is about the integrity and legitimacy of the defence. It should be safe to work in the Defence, both for those who are liable to be protected, and for everyone else who works in the Defence. The security of personnel should be ensured in the best possible way, and it should of course be unnecessary to specify that this should apply to everyone in the Defence, both in peace-operational departments and in war-participation. Interpellation has its main focus on first-time soldiers. Here we have experienced several tragic accidents in recent years. I will not go further into the question of leadership education and the age of the command, because it has been highlighted earlier in the debate. But I'm going to touch on the question of the safety of soldiers with regard to accidents and the ability to predict and avoid risk situations before they occur, which are essential. To a large extent, this is about good planning. In a written question to the Minister of Defence, answered on 25 June of this year, the Minister of Defence concerned the basis for planning well enough and addressed ‘more detailed studies related to risk factors and course of events in the event of accidents’. I'm going to join in on this. I would like to ask the Minister of Defence for a comment on how this work is being carried out. In the same reply, the Minister of Defense says that there is no overview of serious injuries, but a number material of all accidents, regardless of severity. In the same reply, the Minister of Defence concerned the plans to establish electronic health records during the autumn of 2003, and I would like to ask for a comment, although this is now in place as a completely necessary factual basis. Finally, I would like to say a few words about those who are injured, and the situation of the relatives. In my opinion, it means a great deal that the defense has a good dialogue with the relatives and the injured when the accident occurs. Can the Minister for Defence briefly explain this dialogue? And does she perceive it as providing the necessary support and practical assistance for those who are injured, and the relatives, who experience extremely difficult situations when the accident occurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e980	Under the obligation of protection, the defence of young people is borrowed by family and society. Therefore, it is important for the Storting to clarify the importance of the security of the guardians. Three have died in practice in 2003. We know that much of the defence's business carries significant risks, including daily. Specific safety requirements are then required. There must be offensive measures to ensure as good a advice as possible, so that our soldiers do not get hurt or die in practice. Leadership is very important. If the soldiers are to feel safe in practice, the management must take responsibility. We know that education in Defence has been given priority, and that quality improvements have been carried out. Nevertheless, we have to ask ourselves whether the command today needs better training, as the interpellant suggests. The Røksund Committee has previously demonstrated that the current command system results in a lack of experienced command of the troops. A more mature command combined with a higher level of competence could lead to fewer accidents. I am not saying by this that the command that is currently leading exercises is not competent, but we know that experience contributes to greater security in the specific situation. A new command system, where younger commands become longer in the same function, at the same level and thus gain heavier experience, provides an opportunity for follow-up and skillful guidance. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that the order is given good and sound training in health, environment and safety. Here, the defence must have an overall approach to HMS work. It is equally important that this type of knowledge and competence is maintained. A reinforced safety focus must be focused in particular on training and practice, but also on daily activities. In the Army, one has already taken this seriously. Here, the inspector-general himself has proposed offensive measures to strengthen security. In addition to the appointment of its own safety inspector and the certification of orders each year, Major General Silverberg will establish a risk analysis and risk assessment system. These measures have already been ordered to take place, and the Christian People's Party believes that such measures are very positive. At the same time, I would like to stress that this is not just a matter of management and its responsibilities. I would like to stress that all employees and guardians must participate actively in order to create a safe and healthy working environment. Each one has a share of responsibility here. We know that it plays a major role in the attitudes and values of the individual soldier. Person types and attitudes may in themselves pose a safety risk. Perhaps Rambo and action attitudes are not a major problem, but the defense should be aware of the problem when they recruit their staff – which I believe they are already.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e993	Being placed under the command of others sets strict requirements for those who exercise this command. Soldiers in service are under such a command, even though we no longer have the old order defense. It is absolutely essential that procedures be established, as the Minister of Defence has done, which are satisfactory in order to ensure the safety of soldiers and employees in the service. But systems and procedures are not enough. I think that this is very much about setting up attitudes that make the systems that have been set up really serious. In fact, I do not believe that age is crucial in this context, but I am fully convinced that the attitude of command, both force management and senior officers, towards security and limiting the risks to be taken in different contexts is crucial in order to avoid the type of tragic events that we have unfortunately seen too many examples of. The Minister of Defence, in his reply to the interpellant, gave a comprehensive description of the procedures and measures in place to be implemented in the future. This is very positive, and I think the Minister for Defence is showing an offensive attitude to this. However, despite the routines established, tragic deaths and accidents occur where the interpellant has pointed out slurves — slurries that should not occur. This tells us that there may not be systems that are wrong, but the way these systems are being followed up. That's why creating attitudes is a management responsibility, which we, as elected representatives, also have. I must say that it is with amazement that I heard the approach that both the representative Hernæs and the representative Width had to this issue. I think that the defence friendliness they're trying to exhibit in their posts here is being misunderstood in relation to the serious problem we're facing here. This type of event is simply not to be accepted, either in defence or in other contexts, and not at all in defence, where young people are placed under the command of others. What the Minister of Defence said about establishing procedures, sticking strictly to the procedures that are being set up, and avoiding attempts at exodus, is absolutely vital to our progress in avoiding accidents of a nature that we have unfortunately seen too many examples lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1004	Choosing a military career involves putting yourself in danger. As a military, you will understand that you can risk damage, and in the worst case, you can lose your life. That is the brutal reality. This applies to the professional militants involved in international operations or performing their duties at home. Here in Norway, we also have compulsory soldiers who are called into service. They have been requested or imposed by the Norwegian State. We have a responsibility for the security of the soldiers, both in relation to the military and in relation to those responsible for protection. We have to do everything in our power to ensure that people who themselves are willing to put themselves in danger when the situation requires it have maximum security during practice or other military activity. Unfortunately, in the last year, life has been lost in practice. Young people have lost their lives in practice. Parents and friends have lost their loved ones. To prevent this from happening again, there are several things that are important. Firstly, we must have clear, understandable and good legislation. Second, we have to have the ability to put this into life. And third, we have to comply with it in the day-to-day operation of the Defense. Here it is important that we have a continuous evaluation of how the safety structure works. I have recently heard several parents who are concerned about their sons and daughters going into the defense. I'm afraid that's understandable. As politicians, we must therefore give crystal clear notice to the Defense that safety must be placed in the high-seat. This is important if we are to defend the general duty of protection. I'm excited about how the Council of State is attacking this case. That it is important is raised above any doubt. When you are called to the service of the defense, it is the task of the defense to make the service as secure as possible. I hope in this respect that security is a central part of the assessments made in the Military Investigation and that the Council of State emphasises this aspect in the expected long-term defence document.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1022	Everyone, no matter what the point of view, wants for our soldiers a first-time service that is safe, instructive and competent. In every way, we want a good year for our soldiers and their relatives. Unfortunately, accidents, some very serious ones, all of us have to do something about them, in order to minimize them, that is. zero. The question is just how we can achieve this goal. The easiest thing, of course, would have been to shut down the entire defense, but such a radical step does not want anyone to go to. A defence shall be provided by Norway. We disagree with the content and the size of the money bag. There might be someone here who should sit down and think: do we give the defense enough financial resources and good enough framework conditions for them to be able to perform their duties and exercises in such a way that all aspects, in this case security, can be adequately protected? Gives enough resources to reconcile the Government with the Workers' Party, for example. that sufficient experienced command can be included in the entire exercise, from planning to finalisation, and that sufficient safety equipment is in place? The Progress Party wants to do so in its budgets. The question is whether the others do so with a significantly lower amount in their budgets. If you pay the price for a Lada, you can't expect to get a Mercedes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1029	The representative, Hernæs, said in his speech that he supported the Council of State. He has, together with the Defence Committee, been visiting North Norway for the sixth division, and in a few jobs in Norway he had seen a better approach to health and the environment. Now I don't know how many jobs Hernæs has worked on, but what we know at least is that what was presented to us in the sixth division is how it is after this accident that we're discussing today. So it's no wonder that at least they've managed to change. But what I wanted to say was what Marit Nybakk was talking about, macho culture. She asked in her introduction why the signals were not taken seriously. Of course, I can only speculate, but it's obvious that this has to do with attitudes, not just with lack of knowledge. The on-the-spot order showed what could best be characterised as a complete lack of perspective. The first step towards tackling this unculture is to admit that such uncultures exist. Neither the defence as a whole nor the command organizations admit that such uncultures exist. If desired, I would like to spin a little extra on this theme. I consider it fundamental, not only for safety, but also for the well-being and learning of guardians in the first place. That is why I hope that this interpellation will not be such a debate as the representative Mr Bredvold puts up, i.e. a budget debate in which we are talking about money, because that is not what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1038	First, I would like to agree with those who have stated that the Council of State has shown an offensive attitude, and I would like to thank the Council of State for that. Then I agree with Bjørklund's assessment that this is about the integrity of the defence. That was a very good description. Therefore, it is also right that we who are defence-friendly – because we are – should take into account the relationship of defence with society. The old, good people and the defence concept are important. The defence must have confidence in the population. I agree that this is to a large extent both about attitudes and about limiting, and that it is then a management responsibility. With about 30 billion dollars a year for the defense, it's clear that the dispositions of the economy, or the housekeeper, in the defense, make this impossible to be a resource problem in the field. In that case, we'll have to redispatch further and take the grips from here. But I don't believe in that. Then I agree with the representative Hernæs that the defence in general does not take security lightly. It also underlines the Secretary-General of the Army, Silverberg. He has now expressed it in several contexts. I think he's going very offensively to work on this particular matter, as a new general inspector of the Army, of course, because there have been both fatal accidents and other accidents. It's actually like this, I think, that there has to be a difference between exercises for first-time guardians and exercises for special forces and Marines, and that you have to look at the development of the individual soldiers when you put up the exercises. To the representative, Width: I did not relate to the media when I posted this interview. I've been dealing with relatives, and I've been dealing with the reports that are available. I must point out that it says here about the lack of routines, the lack of security personnel and the lack of knowledge. There's a list of points. We need to take these types of reports seriously. There are reports that shock us quite fundamentally, and that make it necessary to take this up, not least because of what I initially said now, that the defence must have integrity, that the defence must have support for the population. We're talking about guardians who are sent into the King's clothes, and we're ordering them in there. In the end, both Storberget and others have stressed this very strongly with a network of relatives, and I will ask the Council of State to confirm once again that she will pay attention to it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1055	There have been many good posts, and I can immediately say that having to comment or answer everything in 3 minutes is impossible. I'll do the best I can. In fact, I agree that the practical steps taken by Storberget are good and important advice. I agree that the follow-up of the survivors and relatives is often about real grip, simple grip, and I believe that realizing that the information needs often extend beyond the first few days and weeks, that there may be a long-term need for information, not least emotionally, is a recognition that we have to relate to when we evaluate how the individual defences of the overall strategy to be implemented now facilitate it in the future. I would also say, as Storberget was about, that giving legal assistance in some cases, or paying for legal assistance, is what we are actually doing, precisely because we think it is right. Of other things that have been up, I also agree with the Width's remark that it is not generally so that it is unsafe to serve as a soldier. The defense takes accidents very seriously. That's what we show when we see how the General Inspector of the Army will raise this to a strategic level in his own defense. But yet it will be that no matter how much we do on the prevention side, no arrangements or systems are 100 percent, and that is why we need to have good follow-up systems after the accident. The safety training at the command schools I take with me further as a signal that there is something we should look at. Here, I believe that some of the ideas outlined in the Chief of Defense's investigation, to bring command schools closer to each area of defence, may be an opportunity to put practical security training higher on the agenda. Bjørklund had several questions about what dialogue you have with a relative. It is a dialogue in the individual case, which I also assure myself has taken place. But I also want to say that I think we should acknowledge that the need for relatives will always be greater than what you think is sufficient. Here we have a challenge that we need to look at, not least by putting security in as a strategic theme. In the case of an electronic health record, it has started to be implemented and is immediately completed. What has also been commented on is that systems and procedures are not sufficient, attitudes can well be so important. As a third element, I would also like to underline experience. But it is possible to have both experienced and inexperienced command as long as it is the experienced command that takes care of the most demanding and risky exercises, at least the quality assurance of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1075	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1092	First, I would like to point out that there are several reasons for this interpellation, namely that it is the International Day against Violence against Women on 25 November, on Tuesday, that there will be a very interesting conference on Victims of Violence from Sunday to Tuesday under the auspices of the National Association for Victims of Violence, and that the Action Plan on Violence against Women is in a final phase. It's not just violence against women this interpellation is about, but victims of violence and sexual abuse in general. No one would ever think of starting a project or dropping a sample to assess whether a person would be helped to fix a broken leg or a defective lung. Victims of violence and sexual assault, on the other hand, must find that measures that could help them are not at their place of residence, that the measure is temporary, a project or, in the worst case, threatened with closure. They often have to find out what rights they have, and they feel that they have to fight to get them. We gradually know a good deal about being a victim – or a victim – of violence and/or sexual assault. We know that the damage, the post-traumatic suffering very many sheep, is similar to what soldiers get after being in war. We know that the damage is often inherited. It is striking how many daughters in violent homes who themselves end up as victims of violence, and how many sons as seamen use violence later in life as a way of resolving conflicts. Repeat the patterns because they are known. Similarly, there are quite a number of perpetrators, violent perpetrators, and killers and women who have been the victims of various types of assaults. Breaking this vicious circle should be a priority task, at the top of all public agencies' agendas, but it's not – so far. The result is seen in psychiatry, in prisons and in the statistics on maritime murder. According to the Alternative to Violence Foundation, as many as 100,000 men in Norway have a violent problem. Many suffer from abstinence, frustration and control needs as a result of a partner or a former partner. How many children are exposed to this, don't know, but it's certainly not few. Children who are witnesses to family violence are said to be even more harmed than those who are directly exposed. At the top of this, children who sail are directly exposed to physical and mental violence or sexual assault, there are many tens of thousands. In other words, this is a social problem of enormous dimensions, and should be treated like that, even in budgetary terms. I'll record that that doesn't happen. When it comes to the heel, it's sadly small that this field becomes part of. The concrete evidence that action follows words is largely absent. Measures that could mean a mass must be carefully targeted with crumbs or referred to project status, preferably for years. To give a small cut of reality, I can take an example from my own little kneel count: it is estimated that approx. 450 women are raped in Westfold every year. Despite this, we have had to fight to get a rapist in the county. It's not in place yet! The number of family violence reviews was per year. 31 July in the year 91 in the figure. 45 women in Vestfold are wearing a violent alarm, and 84 men are banned from visiting. During a random week in 2003, i.e. this year, 41 cases were raised at the family protection and counselling offices in Westfold, where violence was reported as a major problem. The last aggregate statistics from the family protection offices in Westfold show 142 cases where violence was recorded, a doubling from the previous registration in 1999. There is every reason to believe that the number of cases has increased significantly, and very many are never discovered. I am very pleased that the police in many places, including in my home country of Vestfold, begins to take the problem seriously. The Minister of Justice shall be commended for taking the initiative to establish family-level coordinators. But this is not enough! Violence and abuse must become a natural part of the work of all public authorities, and it must be equally common for the Minister of Health, the Minister of Education and the Minister of Local Affairs to talk about this as if the Minister of Children and Family Affairs and the Minister of Justice are doing so, because the outcome of violence is visible everywhere in society, and because it can only be combated through joint efforts, through close and lasting cooperation between public, private and voluntary actors. In this context, I can mention that Vestfold is a project team to work together in the public sector and to raise awareness of the problem. This is exciting and terrifyingly important, but it's just a start on a cooperation that we have to make work on a permanent basis, at all levels, regardless of any action plans from the governments at all times. In addition, the provision of services to victims of violence and relatives in Norway needs to be expanded and developed, as it should not be the case that people in life crises have to find themselves in a flood of often unclear legislation and responsibilities. In my view, we need to focus on at least four relationships now: Firstly, long-term commitment to the measures already in place today, such as the crisis centres, incest centres and the Alternatives to Violence. Secondly, knowledge building and joint meeting places and responsibility for the provision of public assistance. It shall not be such that victims of violence and abuse are not helped because there is no competence, resources or understanding of their needs or because the measure is a temporary project or simply absent. Thirdly, measures of the type Victim Support Services, which they have in Glasgow, which are responsible for the follow-up of victims of violence, are needed in Norway. One of the things that upsets me the most is when people who have been subjected to gross outbursts tell about how they have had to fight at all levels for months and years in order to know what rights they have, and how to get them fulfilled, while this should not be their responsibility at all. Fourthly, a proper upgrading of the legal system so that victims and relatives receive proper information, guidance and assistance. I'm ashamed when I think about how many people are being treated badly in today's legal system. I am pleased that the Council of State has signaled that he will address this, and SV will provide help in the future in this area. Let these four challenges be a kick-off for the debate we're about to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1129	I agree that today’s assistance to victims of violence is not satisfactory in all ways. But I do not share the view of the representative, Thorkildsen, that it would be unnecessary to set up a selection that looks at the situation of violent women in general or violent and perpetrated women in particular, such as the so-called Women's Violence Investigation. There is a growing need for more knowledge and systematic work in this field, and it is important to acquire both experience and research-based knowledge. Work to improve the situation of victims of violence and abuse is a high priority. Last time I was Minister of Justice, I, together with the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, the Minister for Health and Social Affairs, promoted an action plan to combat violence against women. The role of the police is central to this action plan. The establishment of the system of family violence coordinators is one of several examples. Through more active use of public prosecution and a stronger focus on evidence assurance, the number of reports of family violence has increased markedly during the project period. In order to continue the fight against violence against women, the Government has decided to draw up a new action plan. The plan will be presented in May 2004 and will be drawn up in cooperation between the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Children and the Ministry of Family Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. The plan shall focus in particular on the provision of treatment to men who commit violence against current or former partners, the offer to children who grow up in families in which violence is practised, and measures that contribute to enhancing the competence of auxiliary services. Since 1996, a probationary system has been in place, setting up seven crime victims advisory offices. The offices are established in cooperation with the police and assist victims of criminal acts with advice and guidance and pass on the need for legal and health assistance. In addition to the eight offices already established, a recent one in Stavanger, two offices are also to be set up, one in Hordaland and one in Oslo. In order to further develop the work of supporting victims and relatives, the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with Trondheim Municipality, South Trondelag Police Districts and Trøndelag State Attorney's Office, will establish a support centre for insults in criminal matters. The Centre shall be able to provide support, practical assistance, parental and family support, legal support and advice. The opinion is that the support centre should be able to provide help for self-help and support to move on in life despite abuse. It would be appropriate to associate justudents in cases where the assistant lawyer has not been appointed. The centre will initially be operated as a three-year project and will be located at the new police station in Trondheim. The background of this centre is some of the things that the interpellant took up, building up a better apparatus in connection with the victim who meets the legal, prosecution and administration apparatus. As the representative of Thorkildsen said, today we have a number of key instruments or measures aimed at victims of violence. 50 crisis centres and 18 incest centers are distributed throughout the country. The situation is that every harvest we are informed that the measures are in danger of closure and that the budgets will be cut locally. Most municipalities, however, show responsibility, and the budget of the crisis centres has shown a steady increase from year to year. From 2002 to 2003, the total increase in aid for crisis measures was 15 p.m. However, crisis centres lack predictability and, in many cases, a better link with the other municipal auxiliaries. For the treatment of St.prp. No 62 for 1999-2000, About the municipal economy in 2001 etc., Stortinget joined a plan to include earmarked grants in the framework grant to municipalities which included the crisis measures from 2004. This initiative was halted in the context of the co-funding of the 2004 municipalproposition in June this year, and no clear signals came from the Stortinget on the alternative model for financing and management of the crisis response. This is a challenge that the Government must take seriously, precisely because of the situation description that exists. We know that the incest centers have not achieved the same local anchoring in the municipalities that the crisis centres have. We also know that the Incest Centre in Westfold has problems with local funding in particular, although we do not know for sure until the municipalities have adopted their budgets for the coming years. The government now wants to look at the overall organisation of emergency measures. The proposals that will be outlined will also be seen in the light of work at regional level to develop competences on violence and trauma and the development at regional level of the National Child Protection and Family Protection, SBF. It is an important task for the Government to further develop the offer to men who practice violence. This has therefore been identified as one of three key areas of the new action plan on violence presented next May. In addition to ensuring that the offer of violence is made available on a nationwide basis, a detailed explanation of both the form of association and the financing shall be provided. Per. Today, the offer to men who commit violence in Norway is located by the following institutions: 1st@item: inlistbox Project Sinnemestring at the Broset in Trondheim — Regional Centre of Competence for Prison, Security and Judicial Psychiatry for Middle Norway2. Institute of Clinical Sexology and Therapy3. the family violence project at the Molde Family Protection Office4. Alternatives to Violence, Oslo, Drammen and Langesund5. the other regional centres of competence for prison, security and judicial psychiatry; The Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Health, has provided a crisis grant of DKK 1610 000 for Alternatives to Violence in 2003. The grant is a continuation of the ‘crisis grant’ of DKK 800000 granted in 2002. The award was given because the Departments consider the work carried out by ATV to be important in developing skills in how best to help men who are motivated to get out of violence. Furthermore, in 1999 an agreement was reached between the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and Telemark County to run a three-year project. The professional responsibility for the implementation of the project was added to the Foundation ATV. The project period for ATV Telemark expired in the last summer, but is continued for county funds. The government is set to see how this measure can be further safeguarded. Furthermore, the Government wants to strengthen the work against children who are exposed to, or witnesses to, violence in close relations. It is proposed to allocate 6.5 million. for this measure in the 2004 budget. At the same time, priority shall be given to the work on an overall plan against physical and sexual abuse of children. More measures will be taken to strengthen the provision and follow-up of children who are witnesses to violence and who are subjected to violence in close relations. This applies to children coming to the crisis centres and to children not caught by the crisis centres. The government will, among other things, contribute to strengthening the competence of child protection, family protection and crisis centres and to strengthening the provision of assistance and support to children in the various services. Regional units shall be established on the basis of child protection and family protection. These units shall provide education and guidance to different local authorities and cooperation with crisis centres shall be systematised and strengthened. It is estimated that about 180 000 people over the age of 16 are exposed to violence or threats of violence each year. This includes, inter alia: Victims of violence and sex – children and adults – attackers, disaster and accident victims, refugees, asylum seekers, UN and NATO veterans and relief workers with international missions in disaster areas. There is a need to strengthen the competence and provision of treatment services and facilities for different groups of victims or offenders. There is also a need to increase inter-disciplinary and cross-disciplinary cooperation. The Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Defence, has decided to establish a National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress from 1 January 2004. The Centre shall have a multidisciplinary profile, with the aim of strengthening research, teaching and guidance in the field. The new centre represents an increased investment in the areas included, as well as the possibility of strengthening the investment in areas that were not previously defined within an established competence environment. The following of today's units will be included in the Centre: Psycosal Center for Refugees, Ministry of Health, National Resource Centre for sexually abused children, Ministry of HealthCompetence Centre for Victim Labour, Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice resources from the Department of Disaster Psychiatry, Ministry of Defence The Centre shall cooperate with the Alternatives to Violence and the Institute of Clinical Sexology and Therapy, IKST, on the development of knowledge related to family violence and offers to offenders. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health investigates on behalf of the Ministry of Health regional and local competence and services, to be completed in 2004. In this context, measures to strengthen supply will be followed up regionally and locally when the investigation is available. The investigation shall assess how to ensure regional environments of competence which provide for different groups of trauma-affected victims of rape and sexual assault, victims of violence, disasters, accidents, etc., in a holistic, cross-disciplinary and multidisciplinary manner. It is also assessed how work on the prevention of violence and competences in the area of drug abusers can be linked to regional resource environments. Work is in progress locally, and the first step has been to identify the skills needs and organisation of the offer of persons who have been subjected to violence, rape and sexual assault. The Directorate of Social and Health carries out the monitoring on behalf of the Ministry of Health. The mapping will include, inter alia: focus on the following: the treatment services established for the raped in each municipality and established regular procedures for dealing with rape cases; follow-up services; psychosocial support services; and referral to mental health funding; Monitoring will result in an overview of which parts of the country have receptions and how they are financed. In the light of the results of the monitoring, the Directorate for Social and Health will present proposals on the organisation, financing and content of the service offered by the country’s rapists, to which the Ministry of Health will then decide. The Social and Health Directorate has also set up a working group to provide input to a guide on psychosocial support services in the event of crises, accidents and disasters. Crisiss include: Sudden death and suicide, but it can also involve family violence. It will be assessed whether it is appropriate to recommend the establishment of a crisis team in each municipality to deal with such crises. What I'm describing here is the fact that in our society we started a little late in taking these problems seriously – later than what we did with heart and lung disease, to which the representative refers. Work is under way on a broad-based basis, and it is about strengthening competence in different departmental areas. I very much agree with the representative of Thorkildsen that then one must also ensure the planning of it, the systematic and the good and important meeting places.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1234	I thank you for your answer. It sounds like there's a hell of a lot going on around Norway, so you can almost wonder why I'm taking up this interpellation at all. My impression is that new samples are constantly being dropped, and more and more investigations are being carried out to find out what is helping, while the measures that we know actually help have to struggle every year to get the ends to meet. I can't imagine anything as pointless as those who stand for low-threshold offers that have existed for decades have to use their forces to beg for money and worry about future rather than actually doing what they are supposed to do, namely to help, for example. women and children. I'm no fundamental opponent of cutting down samples, I can be completely to reduce samples – The Women's Violence Commission, for example. struggled SV for a long time before it was reduced. When we know that the crisis centres and incest centres work as intended, and that they are an important complement to what the public can offer, among other things. Because many of them have been open 24 hours a day, and are a cheap way to care for the victim and exposed, I don't understand why it should be so difficult to give them the support they need. I am aware that this is not just the responsibility of the Government. This is also the responsibility of the municipalities, and it is the responsibility of the municipal politicians. But I wish there was a red thread between what you mean in this room and what you mean in the municipal government halls around. It is quite clear to me that when faced with budgetary priorities, they do not give priority to measures such as: the incest and crisis centres. It is the responsibility of all the parties, so SV has written a letter to all the parties asking that everyone take a discussion about what kind of financial instruments are envisaged in the future to give these measures freedom. As for Alternatives to Violence, I wonder how long they will have to exist as projects around. It costs approx. Three million. to operate a unit, e.g. in Langesund, with four employees who can handle about 150 men in a year. Just treating one man so that he does not delay, for example. The woman says she has to be sick for a long time and has major problems, etc., will save society for approx. the same as it costs to operate that unit in a year. It's an investment in the future that pays off, and I don't understand why it's going to be so hard to see it, and why we have to fight so hard to get these offers around when we see the results. I'll take care of it for now, now I see that the time is running out. But this is largely about whether one is willing to give it a concrete priority in the budgets when it comes to the heel.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1251	I think we should be humble in common, no matter which party we belong to. Taking up the issue, as the representative of Thorkildsen has done, does not have a long history in Norway. At least I have a close story for what the Minister of Justice once before and now for the second time. I have the impression that it is my duty to influence the Government and colleagues to contribute to thinking completely and systematically. That's why I also had examples in my answer that cover several departments, including the Ministry of Health, which I understood was important in the representative's questions. I think that if you want to find the solutions, you have to create a dialogue and an understanding between state and other levels of government, read the municipalities. I also think it is necessary to create administrative cooperation, that is, to work together so that it makes sense, that someone knows how to make sure that people don't get tossed between one and the other. I think so, for example. – in order to use my State Council’s expertise and not to be a specialist council, but to do so, it is an important task that large parts of the healthcare system also capture situations that may have complex and complex diagnoses. It could be traumatized and violent people. It's not that easy to categorize, but the more important it is to meet them. Similarly, I can go into the field that I myself have a direct responsibility for constitutionally, and say that large parts of the judiciary can learn a lot about how to act wisely when people have been victims of crime. That is why I have also been involved in initiating, and will initiate, with local forces in the South-Trøndelag, a project aimed at expanding the entire competence of how to help and meet insulted people in specific cases for police and prosecution authorities. It's precisely in that recognition that this can and should be done better. I also think, as the representative Thorkildsen says, that there is a lot of catching up on the fact that the knowledge is so great that it actually works together instead of not doing it. With regard to the financing of a number of actions, they are scattered across the budgets of different departments. It won't be easier when, for example, crisis centres have been run in a slump loop with different decisions in the Stortinget. But that doesn't mean that a government is relieved of responsibility, we have a responsibility to find a sensible solution when the history of financing the crisis centres has become as I described in my post. Of course, I'm also very concerned about what I said about the incest centers, they're important. I have also been involved in ensuring that their joint secretariat, the Secretariat for Sexual Incidents, and Incidents, could be secured, among others. this year. The challenge is to create systematics, to create predictability and to create good and important meeting places. The principles of this, as they are drawn up by the representative of Thorkildsen, I share. So it's my responsibility to do what I can because this is also going to be a good reality for everyone. It requires cooperation not only within the state between different disciplines, but also between state and municipality, and – if we put other words at it – between Norwegian citizens who have different expertise and who will be able to withstand other Norwegian citizens who have suffered traumatic, violent and violent abuses.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1266	This, I think, is an extremely important debate, and in this way I thank the interpellant for the interpellation and opportunity. Why should the financing of Norwegian crisis centres be sent out on such a slump as the Minister of Justice has just described? Why should it be that, as most people in this house and most outside this house see as good, constructive and very important help to a particularly vulnerable group, it must wait for some sample to clarify its financing basis? I think it's a very good example of what kind of -- I was saying -- the burden of proof and what kind of investigation burden these are being imposed in any context. The concepts that remain in these debates in relation to the offended, the survivors and those affected by crime are a flora of investigation, action plan, project, testing scheme, crisis allocation – it was said now instead – the issue of time-limited project, overall plan, etc. I believe that responsibility is not party politics. The responsibility lies not only with the departments, it's not just here, it's largely based on how we, as a society, have chosen to meet this problem. I believe that this is actually also about what kind of criminal policy focus we have in Norway. What is it that we justice politicians are invited to debate when we face criminal acts, whether they are in the media, in this room or in other contexts? Yes, there is to a large extent one parameter: more police and stricter penalties. And it's almost impossible to penetrate the sound wall in comparison to the fact that there are other needs they offended and left behind and those that are most wounded are out to get covered. This interpellation might be a starting point for all of us in this field to take a special responsibility in relation to just bringing in the elements that go on, among other things. how to care for the survivors. The survivors, the relatives and those affected by crime, are perhaps the leading group who also talk about prevention. It is the foremost group that of course talks about repairing and reducing the damage. And that's the leading group talking about uprising, and of course the punishment comes in. However, I think it is a considerable responsibility of the political groups that, when it comes to debating criminal policy, have stricter penalties and more police as the only satisfying answer. We need to be able to raise these elements, so that crisis centres and other measures are seen as completely natural and important in relation to doing something with a relatively large social problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1277	Family violence against women, children and also against men is increasing and constitutes 100,000 cases per day. This type of crime is hidden, and many victims live alone with inconvenient traumas for a long time. For women in acute crisis, there are now 50 crisis centres and a special police reception apparatus where they can turn. The crisis and incest centres are funded by municipal and state funds, but are professionally autonomous. A comprehensive policy towards victims of violence will be to ensure that public support becomes predictable, permanent and less dependent on different municipal discrimination from year to year. The focus on the victims of violence has increased. One of the most recent arrests from the Government was to establish a separate office for the compensation of victims of violence in Vardø. Now, not the victims of violence seeking compensation shall be left to differing constitutional practices, but shall meet an overall national procedure and interpretation of the law. In order to solve the serious problem of violence, the focus must also be on the perpetrator. If victims of violence don't live with violence every day, we can't live with only fire extinguishment to the victims of violence. What are the causes of violence? What measures would be the most effective to stop the high level of violence? The issues are many. A choice of preventive measures is necessary to implement as early as possible in the life of the potential perpetrator of violence. A recognition of actual relationships may be a good start: Sexual exploitation of children is almost exclusively carried out by men. by prisoners in prisons are men. It is a sad failing statement that many of these men learn basic reading and writing skills in prisons. An OECD report concludes that at least 20 pst. by all Norwegian 15-year-old boys are functional illiterates. Can later criminal behaviour be related to this type of training background Norwegian boys get through public school? The only offer given to many violent people is received under atonement. Supply and action against the perpetrator are few, geographically spread throughout the whole country and often depending on local fires. Examples are Alternatives to Violence in Oslo, Langesund and Drammen, Project Sinnemesstring in Trondheim and the Resource Center for Men – REFORM – which unfortunately is only a three-year project. It must be an important task for the Government to establish cooperation between central and local actors in order to further develop the offer of violent men. Today, Norwegian society lacks sufficient knowledge of causal links between the practice of violence and the background of the perpetrator. Preventive measures and offers to violent persons will be of far greater benefit to victims in the long term than firefighting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1303	When we discuss issues related to violence, and this is an increasingly comprehensive problem in society, I ask myself, what is the reason for this? You have to be careful to come up with easy solutions to such a question, because it's probably hugely complex. But I can't help but point out that we're getting an increasingly violent society. It happens in the media, it happens in the entertainment, it happens in the encounter between people. It's supposed to be kind of funny, but we have a kind of evolution in society that I experience as a rogue, and that's part of not glorifying violence, so at least generalizing violence. That, I believe, is an aspect that we also need to address in this debate. It's a fact, as I've read it, that when the public gets more competence in an area, like this. violence, will the rumors about this spread, and more dares to report their own situation. One thing is to have competence to follow-up cases in the judicial system, but no less important is the help that can be provided to those who have experienced shorter or longer periods of time as victims of violence. The rapist himself must also be given adequate treatment. It's important to have all the sides that relate to human infringing in different ways, and I see this interpellation from the representative of Thorkildsen as part of this pressure. It's important that we focus on people and people's situation. It has to do with human dignity, and it has to do with the values of social understanding and interpersonal understanding of relation. I think the Council's answers show that the Government sees this problem area and takes the challenge seriously. But it is clear that at the same time, we think it takes too long. This challenges our willingness to prioritize people. It is also we in the Christian People's Party have to take inwards. This applies to all the parties, as the representative Storberget said. This is not a party political matter; this is something that, perhaps – and not just perhaps, but quite certainly – should come up much higher on the political agenda. It concerns man and man's worth.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1314	It's a timely interpellation that Thorkildsen's representative has taken up, and it probably challenges us all in different ways. I think it has been raised beyond any doubt that we have a common ambition to do something about this, since violence is totally unacceptable, ergo we have an obligation to intervene and do our utmost to prevent violence from actually being allowed to happen. We have to do that in several ways. Firstly, we must take a clear distance from the fact that violence is at all. We need to focus on the perpetrators and the background to violence. And then, in my opinion, we need to have an even greater focus on, as the interpellant was about, the victims' experience of the violence they are subjected to. When the Storting, and those outside, manage to take over the problems that result in violence, I think the Norwegian criminal policy needs to be adjusted accordingly. In any case, I personally feel that, unfortunately, we – and I have already said so from this pulpit – are still too much focused on the problems and background of violent perpetrators. I think we take care of it more seriously than we take care of the victims' relationships. Personally, I think we need to balance our view of this to a greater extent than we have the power to do now. That doesn't mean we're not going to take over the problems that the perpetrator has. If we get to solve those problems, our lives will also be better for the victims. But we have an obligation to see the width of this. Then I also think that there is a need, as the Minister of Justice and others have been involved, to look at different models, because there is no one-sided response to what works. Human beings are individual, we have individual problems, and we have individual challenges that need to be solved. Ergo is completely in place and absolutely necessary that you go in and make different models, get them tested out and then through it gets created a functional tool. And that's when the challenges come, because it requires the Storting's ability to facilitate predictability. This may also mean that there is a need for an overall increase in the level of investment in the justice sector and that it will result in a positive outcome for other departments as well. As others have pointed out here, this is not a unilateral framework that affects the justice sector and those indirectly affected by it, but it affects health and it affects the health of the insured. Here are many things that are related, to which we must have an overall approach. I think we must have a wider framework in the field of justice, and we must have predictability for those who will assist in this. Then the Minister of Justice was in the middle of a whole lot of thinking. I fully support that, if the assumption of total thought is a holistic commitment, and not a holistic ability to define itself out of a responsibility. For sometimes – with respect to reporting – we feel that it is well as comfortable to define ourselves out of a responsibility as taking responsibility. There we all have a job to do. I think the level of ambition is that we're going to keep focusing on this. But the purpose is that we should reduce the practice of violence, so that everyone gets a better everyday life. As others have been before me, we must now get from word to action. That's what the victims of violence deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1329	The centre party has combined with the interpellant that it is paradoxical that help has not become more stable, knowledgeable and developed in line with the knowledge of the effects of violence and abuse. We would like to congratulate Mr Thorkildsen on her initiative for a debate on a very important topic. It points in four areas that need to be highlighted. We agree that we must both strengthen the long-term effort, that is to say, secure the aid measures currently in place, and secure the knowledge-building of the public auxiliaries. We also felt it was important to point out in relation to the acquisition and use of international experience and at the same time to upgrade the legal system, both in terms of information, guidance and assistance, so that it is better than it is today. A small but valuable plan against the power of society was presented by Bondevik I. I thought it was a happy signal that the Minister of Justice now announced that there would be a follow-up to this plan in May next year. I'm somewhat more surprised by his mention when it comes to securing crisis centers. It must be crucial that they are given greater financial priority than today. The centre party is to reduce ear-marked appeals, but it is to the extent of a cross-political perception that holding some ear-marked additions is fully acceptable when it comes to an offer that is under construction and when it comes to a measure that exists in some municipalities. And when it comes to crisis centers, one actually covers not only one of these two moments, but both. It is very important, and it is up to the Government to read out the various decisions and remarks in Stortinget that there is a majority who want a stronger and more prudent government funding of crisis centres. There is no need to wait for any selection. If securing crisis centres is important to the Government, as I am saying they are, I would recommend making a proposal for government funding! What the municipalities are busy about today is not actually securing more of their offerings, it's looking at where they can cut. So if we're going to focus more on crisis centers and the important offerings they represent, the state has to make more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1339	For many, many years now in Norway we have been so lucky that when the heart is about to stop, or we have been damaged in some way so that the blood runs and the damage is visible, according to the law we have just to immediate help and adequate help and treatment. Auxiliaries are generally prepared by a municipal or intercommunal bodyguard. Everyone knows the important phone number, and everyone knows where to find help nearby. But when the damage is not as visible as incest or rape, or when the damage is more psychological, when it is the feelings that have been damaged, the security that has been torn off, the trust that has been abused, then there is no law. Then it is not obvious that there is help nearby. Often it is not even clear where to turn, or if you dare to try to get help. There are, as I said, after a lot of crisis centres and some incest centers around Norway, and we have got Alternatives to Violence three places in Norway. Almost all of these offers are fought by people with burning engagement or seagoing experiences who have given them the insight they need to know what is needed in those situations, and which they did not find when they needed it. The supply has grown to the resistance of both professionals and public institutions. I've been running politics for a long time, and early in the 1980s, I was present when the firehouse behind the Incest Center in Westfold told the public for the first time about the cruel experiences of her childhood, when she was the ‘winner’ as the one who won the poker game with the father, was allowed to do what he wanted to do. We who were politicians at the time didn't know that there were such crops in Norway. We really didn't think our own ears. Those who were present by the professionals also got quite a shock from what they heard. Vestfold got his incest centre relatively quickly then, but now it is threatened by closure, many years later, and they have done a lot of good work in the years that have gone on. We can't have it like this. Crisis centres and incest centres are as necessary as medical services for the patients concerned. Again and again, I come to the conclusion that prevention is always the most important measure. Help for new parents, with vaccines, etc., we have incorporated, but in the case of domestic violence, we have not incorporated any good ways to help. Kindergartens are incredibly important both to provide children with a common platform on how to resolve conflicts, get good attitudes and create a value base on which they can build. The kindergarten is also very important to discover whether there are problems at home that do not appear in the form of blood or broken arms. Children who experience violence against their mother become insecure and have a difficult childhood. Violence can occur in a sober or rushing state, regardless of mental harm to the child. And that family needs help. These fathers should get help through ATV services near where they live, quickly, to stop this way of treating their loved ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1352	It is a consensus and has been a consensus for many years that crisis centres are absolutely necessary – I would say vital – and that they have saved both life and health and, I believe, knowing very many women and children. They've probably also rocked some men out of a difficult situation, where maybe the end would be even worse if the crisis centre hadn't been found. It is therefore strange that in 2003 we are still discussing mechanisms to avoid these centres being threatened by closure. Then I hear that the Council of State shifts some of this responsibility over to the Stortinget and says that the Stortinget adopts different proposals on how the funding should be, and he does not know exactly what we mean. I have to say I'm responding to that. Firstly, the last proposal from the Government was to put funding into the framework of the municipalities. That meant that they thought this was a problem they could put away. It's a contradiction to the signals that the Council of State now gives, and what the Government says in other contexts, that this is a task that we actually have to ensure that the offer is there, because it's about life and death for many. The second is that it is actually up to the Government to make proposals to secure the crisis centres so that they are not closed. It is also the case that the Storting has promoted many proposals that the Government has left behind, but it comes back with its own ideas, over and over again, about how things should be. I would ask the Minister of Justice to take a slightly more constructive view of how to solve this financing problem, because we are all concerned about it – to find a way to make sure that these centres exist, and not to push this responsibility downwards, to municipalities with long-term economies, as you are doing now, because we do not know that works. That is why I want the Minister of Justice to be able to draw up a more explicit financing solution, which will enable the Storting to be sure that the offer will be made. Because this is what it's all about – when you don't get it one way, you try the other way in the committee after the committee, and the reason is that the funding solution isn't there. I'm not going to make myself a great fortune-teller, but I'm going to assume that if the government doesn't agree with this crossroads to find a solution to this in the budget procedure this fall, the Storting will also this time with proposals to resolve the matter, because for us, this is so politically important that we can't let it go any further.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1359	‘An ant of goodwill’ is Professor of State Science Hege Skjeie’s characteristic of Norwegian gender equality policy. What she means by saying that, is that everyone fully agrees that equality is important, but nothing happens at all, because no one believes that it is important enough for other considerations to be set aside. It's a little bit of the feeling I get when we discuss the situation of crisis and incest centers. It's a swamp of goodwill. Everyone agrees that it's important to secure these centers, but we know that that doesn't happen. I'm going to read up a little bit from a letter like the representative Karin Andersen and I've sent out to the other parties, and that says a little about what kind of situation these centers are in: ‘At least three crisis centres have kept parts of the summer closed, while others have assessed this. The incest centre in Westfold fears closure after several municipalities have terminated the agreement with the centre with effect from 1 January next year. In addition, several municipalities have terminated their cooperation agreements with the crisis centres pending new guidelines from the Ministry in connection with the announced inclusion of the State grant in the framework funding, which was stopped – fortunately – ‘by Stortinget on 19 June this year. Some municipalities have signalled a reduction in support or no support next year. 55 of the municipalities of the country do not support a crisis centre financially;’ — yet more do not support an incest centre financially — ‘and everyone justifies this with a poor economy or that the crisis centres’ — and the incest centres — ‘are not a statutory offer’. In other words, we are faced with the situation that people who are exposed to some of the most serious problems we know, and who are actually also in danger of life, can't expect them to get any clear promises that there is an offer where they live, either next year or in the years that come. I am very excited about the reply to the letter that we have sent, and I really hope that we, for example. be able to end up with a solution of 80 pst. to 20 pst. financing, where 80 pst. is financed by the State, against the municipalities financing 20 pst. I should like to see the municipality that withdraws from such an agreement and says, no, we're not adding 20 pst. If that means the state doesn't give 80 pst. It would mean closure on the stain of some centers that already exist. At the same time, it would mean that we have the opportunity to set up centres more places in the country. I therefore believe that it should be as natural in Norway to get help if you are subjected to violence or abuse, such as getting help if you have used a leg or have problems with your heart or lung – it should just be missing. After so many years, we know something about the consequences of that kind of infringement, and then it should be that as knowledge increases, efforts increase in relation to this topic, and it shouldn't be vice versa. I think it's almost strange that SV in a way becomes the hot champions of the state budget – because that's what counts – for voluntary and private action. It shouldn't be like that. I invite the rest of the parties at Stortinget to our bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1375	I note that the debate that started as a debate on how we could increase our understanding of how weak things were, and getting better organisation where the organisation was weak, ends in a classic budget debate. I have not shifted any responsibility from me to crisis centres. I have only found that the Storting first adopts an inclusion, that the Government follows up the decision on an inclusion, and that the Storting rejects it. Then it is not that easy to be predictable, but the government has, of course, responsibility. That is the responsibility of the 2004 budget, by continuing the existing system – that is to say, the state gives 50 pst. and the municipalities have to bring in the rest. Then you can have a debate on whether that is good enough. It was one of the missions that the Women's Violence Committee was given, and we are waiting for their attitude on how to ensure the best possible use of these businesses. Even I think it’s a very good idea – I’m a member of it in many contexts – that the state and the municipality cooperate. There are many examples of this, for example: – beyond the field that is being discussed today – the Barm Center on Hamar, where people who come out after acquittal come out of crime and intoxication. This is when the justice sector meets municipal services. Barm-Senteret, which is run by the Church's Social Service, with a few employees and many volunteers, then becomes a meeting place that makes municipal and state services work in the context. I see that as an expression of meeting places similar to what the representative of Thorkildsen has mentioned when it comes to violence. When it comes to violence, I have been involved in the whole debate – as the representative Meltveit Kleppa pointed out, together with her in another role in her life – on the issues of close relationships. Then I'll say the following: politics can be about a lot, but at least through this work I have recognized something that the women's movement has told me about, the famous glass wall. That means that when you talk about something that women are exposed to, everyone smiles politely at you. It's not an ant of goodwill, it's a glass wall. I am not a person who lets me stop by glass walls. That's why I've been doing one and the other action plan, because I know that it's often the catalyst to get people to take a roof and get to the good, forward-looking solutions. I gave an example in my first post, which was about to create a better system for victims of crime and victims of violence, outlined in the cooperation that we now hope to get started and established in the South-Trendelag with prosecution authorities, with the police, with everyone else, so that you get properly met in that situation as well. It's also very related to the perspectives that Ellingen's representative took up. So it was the Ministry of Justice that quite selfishly ordered this week for violence polling in Norway, where we were to look at how much violence was registered, at police, family protection, child protection, social services, crisis centres, doctors, health services, etc. The numbers we got out were significant, but they gave us insight. They told us that where we've strengthened our competence, as in the police department, we also have the effort to make more progress. And I believe in empowerment. I believe in systematically tough work, not the simple solutions, and I am obliged to work that way. So I experience the interpellation of the representative of Thorkildsen as very constructive and have chosen to meet it that way. I think that has also been the basic tone of this debate, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1382	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1396	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 509]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1412	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1421	Uncertainty and uncertainty result from acts of terrorism and acts of war. Human beings are such that we become insecure and afraid when unforeseen things happen, things we can't control the sea. It can happen far away, but with today's communication and daily TV broadcasts of the horrors and horrors of war into our living rooms, it doesn't matter to the uncertainty where it happens. In addition, terrorism seems to be evenly distributed across many countries, so that you can never be sure where it will happen next time, Norwegian interests have also been designated as targets for terrorism. In the spring, when the war in Iraq was a fact, the international situation saw the need to strengthen the level of security. Terrorism was also posed against, among other things, American interests. The safety situation was assessed in such a way as to increase the bodyguard service and intensify the activity of the police security service. It is important that Norway takes its obligations seriously by securing foreign embassies. Visits from abroad also increase the requirement of security. It is important that the extra costs of watchkeeping and increased security do not go beyond the usual fight against crime, prevention work, the normal presence of the police and service to the normal citizen. The government realized that it was not possible to cover both increased security and security expenses and the level of crime prevention, for the sum of money available to the police this year. It has therefore submitted a write-down on additional appropriations to the police as a result of increased expenditure on security measures outside the revised national budget. The entire committee supports the Government in this setting. The revised national budget is usually the document used to revise the budget of the year. This year, it was announced that the Government would return, if necessary, to the Storting with the current need to cover additional costs. Coming on the harvest with an additional allocation proposal is a somewhat unusual procedure from the Government. But we notice what is written in defense of this somewhat unusual procedure. The minority proposes to create a separate entry for appropriations for increased security measures and preparedness for visits. We in the Labour Party are opposed to this proposal today, but believe that the Government should provide an assessment of whether this will be an appropriate way of dividing up resources. We believe that the big city message, which is also for treatment here in the house now, is the right document to address this. That is why we will not vote in favour of this proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1438	The Ministry of Justice refers to the revised national budget, cf. St. pp. No 65 for 2002-2003 and Innst. S. No 260 for 2002-2003, where the budgetary uncertainty related to the additional expenditure on the police budget resulting from the international situation and the war in Iraq is addressed as follows: ‘The Ministry of Justice refers to the unbridled international situation and to the war in Iraq, which has incurred increased expenditure by the police. At present, it is not possible to say anything about the additional costs of this modified threat picture in addition to the additional appropriations entered in the police budget after 11 September 2001. In particular, there are expenditures on increased embassies and lifeguards covered. The Ministry will follow developments closely and, if necessary, return to the case during the harvest session.» That is the background to the case that is pending today. So the government has done what it said it would do in the revised national budget, and the conclusion is the additional appropriations that are now to be adopted and that a total increase will support. During the period following the treatment by the Storting of the revised national budget, it has been necessary to further reinforce preparedness and security measures against several foreign embassies. In addition, increased security requirements for visits from abroad are added. The Ministry of Justice has considered that the additional costs involved in the security situation should not be passed on to other law enforcement and public services in the police. In the view of the Ministry, it is not possible to cover the additional expenditure resulting from increased security and preparedness measures within the framework of the police budget without any significant deterioration in the fight against other crime. Therefore, the Government in this proposition proposes to increase the allocation of the police budget by a total of NOK 85 billion. The majority, all except the Right and Christian People's Party, have had an understanding of this situation, but still questions whether the need for increased resources could have been more thoroughly assessed and foreseen already in the context of the presentation of the proposal for a revised national budget. I believe this is an unnecessary wonder, in the light of what the government has announced earlier, and which I referred to, and to which the Stortinget joined in the context of the revised national budget. The alarming threat of Al Qaida coming through CNN and other news media on 21 May, where Norway was mentioned in line with the United States and the United Kingdom, came as lightning from the clear sky. This came after the revised national budget had been drawn up, and it was not clear that the need for preparedness would be permanent and long-term. I would also like to show that Prime Minister Sharon's visit to Norway was not finally decided at this time. In other words, the government has announced that if the security situation changed, they would come back to this in the autumn. They have now done that, and I see no reason to criticize that they have actually done that. So they could not predict what would happen after the revised national budget had been drawn up. With regard to the Special Commentary of the Progress Party, I would point out that if one separates embassy watchkeeping and the other as its own budget line, it would undermine the Oslo Police's own budget chapter. This means that we will then vote against the proposal. There is also a proposal from SV today that goes on much of the same. I would like to say that the Oslo police force is the only police district in the country with its own budget chapter. Otherwise, the budget line for the police is a very transparent chapter from the Stortinges side, because there is one budget line, heading 440, while Oslo has 441. If one in addition is to divide the budget chapter of the Oslo police into two, and extract what is the reason we have our own budget chapter for Oslo, namely that the Oslo police have capital tasks, Oslo has embassies, the Oslo police have special vigilance in relation to the government, in relation to the Castle and other things, it will be a little special. The justification for having a separate budget chapter for the Oslo Police Office is precisely the national tasks covered under item 441. It will, in my view, reduce the flexibility of the Oslo Police Department and the ability to operate the activities they are going to carry out, if one extracts the national tasks in its own chapter. The natural logic of this proposal would then be that the Oslo Police had to go into the ordinary police assignment, while one had a separate allocation for the special tasks that the Oslo Police are going to cover. In any case, I recommend that the Group of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left vote against both the proposal by the Progressive Party and the proposal by the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1462	I think we should start with the conclusion. And the conclusion from our point of view is that of course we support what the government here puts up to, although, as the representative of Greece was just about to say, some people think that here you might have a little bit more clarity and a little bit more predictability. Then, of course, we can continue to discuss predictability, and we'll probably do that. That's okay. What this is all about is the seventh and last, is, I think, trust. With confidence, I think primarily of those who are going to do a job for us, the police in the whole country – in this case perhaps primarily in relation to the situation in Oslo, and thereby the situation of the people of Oslo and those who live here. I feel that the way we do things now, unfortunately, Oslo's population will be the losers in relation to the national tasks that the Oslo Police are responsible for today. I don't think it's that way either. I think you can create a system where you can separate the national tasks, without that going to affect the Oslo Police. The Oslo Police are competent today. What we need to do is turn the appropriation into an estimate, where we pay the actual costs that appear as extra costs in relation to the national problems. It should, at least at my discretion, be relatively straightforward. For the greater part, one has to have predictability. We had an interpellation debate quite recently where we talked about framework conditions and predictability. At least I see it there that most people thought predictability was important, so that you could plan and do what you actually wanted to do. Then the same thing has to apply in this context. We believe, as I said, that the appropriations allocated to the national tasks for an estimate can be turned into an estimate. What we're actually going to do now, and what I think we're invited to do today, is just to correct a skepticism that the Oslo Police have felt. Some of us have discussed the situation in Oslo, not only once, but several times – not least I, the representative of Storberget and the representative of Greece have discussed the situation in Oslo. This is because, at least I have seen it there, the police officer in Oslo has had to have different priorities, based on national tasks and national requirements. In my opinion, it confirms once again that Oslo is becoming the loser in relation to the national tasks. And it shouldn't be like that. If we, as a legislative assembly and as those who make the appropriations, are to have confidence in those who are our tool, they must be able to trust us if we are to be able to trust them. If I don't mean that we're setting up a system where we're going around and schooling on each other, without being particularly impressed, and we have other expectations than what we're able to deliver. And we don't deserve that either. Therefore, we believe that the best thing to do is to turn the appropriations into national appropriations for the allocation of estimates. We don't think that's going to hit the Oslo police at all. They have, as I said, the competence today. We're talking about doing things differently in the budget. The goal is not to have any peculiarity, but simply to create predictability. I will then address the proposals that are available from us, and then I will draw attention to the fact that we will subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1477	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1480	SV has for a long time been very busy seeing how much Oslo police actually spend on national tasks, and especially on embassy guards, and especially embassy guards outside the American and Israeli embassies. The reason for this is that we believe that there needs to be a debate on whether Norway should be the only country in the Nordic region that has armed watchkeeping 24 hours a day outside the two embassies. We cannot understand why Norway should give priority in this way when the people of Oslo need the resources that the Oslo police have, and instead of using them as embassy guards in that way, we could, for example, use them. used these purchased arcs, which would be a much more sensible way to use the resources. As far as we know, there has been about a four-fold increase in the expenditure of embassy guards in Oslo in just a few years – I believe in three years. It's used about 250 million. on national tasks in Oslo, and there is a formidable gap between the number of job homes provided by the Oslo police and the tasks assigned to them. We want to make that visible, and we want to show that SV actually prioritizes people's security in everyday life rather than American feelings or whatever it might be that makes us armed watchkeeping standing out in both the snow and the cold 24 hours a day. It takes approx. 8,5 years' worth of 24 hours' watch. If there are two people on the outside 24 hours a day in a year, there are 17 years' work, which could have been used much more rationally. Such a watch could not make a big deal if it came, for example. A terrorist attack. It makes much more sense to have them sitting inside the so-called arcs to have an overview of the entire area. They couldn't lift a finger if it really happened. What they can possibly take are tags, etc., but I think we should discuss whether we should use very close crews that way. The SV therefore supports a proposal that we should separate the national tasks, simply because they have gradually become huge quantities, and because there is a huge gap between the tasks that the police are assigned to them and the crew resources that they have at their disposal. But we don't think we should have an estimate of the national tasks. It would have been to go completely the opposite way. We just want to try to cut down on some of the national tasks that we believe are unreasonable, and not necessarily politically justified either. That's the background for our proposal, and I hope we can have a discussion about it in the future. Do we want to give priority to everyday crime and people's security in Oslo, or do we want to give priority to the American and Israeli embassies in an even unreasonable way?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1491	The representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen has promoted the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1494	The Convention on diplomatic relations of 18 April 1961, the so-called Vienna Convention, provides that the country of destination has a special obligation to take all appropriate measures to protect the representations of foreign countries against intrusion or injury and to prevent their being disrupted. This also applies to the private housing of diplomatic representatives. I would like to stress that the Norwegian authorities have a duty of international law to provide the necessary security for diplomatic representations. The security of these is a police task which is therefore under my department's responsibility. Let this be a backstop for the treatment that is taking place here by the Government's proposal for an additional 85 million. kr. I am not going to go into the details underlying the proposal, but I am going to refer to the reference in the proposition, where the Government considers it necessary to propose additional appropriations to the police in the light of the increased burden resulting from the international security policy developments in 2003. Let me just add: when you propose this appropriation, it's just that you shouldn't risk having normal criminal policy efforts, especially in the Oslo area, be hit by having this extraordinary situation. But the situation has in many ways also become part of our normality in good and bad. I am therefore, of course, very satisfied with the fact that a joint committee in Innst. S. No 23 for 2003–04 is in agreement with the government’s supplementary budget, which is divided by 17 million. kr extra on budget chapter 440, of which the Police Security Service will receive 5 million. NOK 68 million. kr extra on Oslo Police District Budget Chapter 441. The Committee is very clear in its position, which reads as follows: ‘The Committee considers it very important that Norway has, in such a situation, the necessary preparedness and security measures in respect of foreign embassies and sufficient security around official visits from abroad.’ I am pleased that the Committee so clearly understands the obligations we have with the interests and diplomatic representations of other countries, but that by joining the proposal it also accepts what has been a strong issue with the Government, that this effort should not affect the usual criminal policy effort that is important for the whole country, but which in this case is particularly important in Oslo, which receives the additional challenges. I have also noticed that a number of committees have asked questions whether additional expenditure could not have been foreseen in the past, so that they could have been taken into account already in the revision of the 2003 budget. However, the case was not ready to be properly submitted to Stortinget at that time. This was due not least to the intensification of the Al Qaida threat, where Norway was actually designated as an actual target of terrorism, which was only late in May, and to the fact that there have been foreign state visits which were not set out in time to be included in the figures in the revision of the budget. This was a reality that meant that a separate proposition should be promoted as soon as the threat picture and the numerical basis were assessed and quality assured, and I point out that the proposition was approved by the Council of State on 29 August. I would also like to refer to the reservation made by the Government regarding the budget revision, that the Ministry of Justice would follow developments closely, and, if necessary, come back to the matter in the autumn session. I therefore believe that the Stortinget has been informed of how the Government has behaved in this very challenging area. Finally, for the sake of order, I would also like to add that the submitted State budget for 2004 has taken into account the continuation of a high level of security and security, based on current threat assessments. So, finally, a little bit about the debate on the budget chapter for the Oslo Police Department. In fact, I am strongly co-responsible for its existence, in the sense that Bondevik you made sure that there was a majority for it in Stortinget. When you got a separate budget chapter for the police in Oslo in contrast to all the other police districts in Norway, it was for several reasons. Some of the reasons are excellently presented by the representative of Greece, who refers to national tasks. Other reasons are related to the variety and seriousness of the crime scene in the capital of the country, which gives rise to challenges other than elsewhere. This budget chapter is an integral part of the budget, and the Enlarged Committee will be able to know at any time what is within the scope of this budget. Several, at least the representative of Ellingsen, have asked about this and have been informed how developments, for example. are in the specific area of a total of embassies, lifeguard services, etc. The Committee will thus be able to know what progress is and thus have a clear view of how resources are used. If you don't accept that this budget chapter was created on an extraordinary basis in relation to everyone else, I would warn against splitting it up in such a way that you almost undermine the justification and existence of the chapter. I want to defend the chapter because the capital is the capital, and because the police in Oslo also have criminal policy challenges that are in many ways tougher and harsher than elsewhere. But unfortunately, I have to conclude: development is also coming elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1521	The President will assume that Bondevik I is a tyre name for the central government. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1526	Honor the one to be honored, cf. the last opinion of the Minister of Justice. It seemed okay and reasonable to me. At the same time, I think that the Minister of Justice may avoid taking challenges that have come from this pulpit. That's why I'm going to do it again. What I'm asking is: what is the reason why the Minister of Justice is so concerned and strictly does not want to spend estimates on expenditure that is so unpredictable, to which he himself has referred? I have difficulty understanding the logic of the reasoning. It is possible that the Minister of Justice can explain it in a simpler way so I understand it, and he will have the opportunity to do so afterwards. Is there a lack of trust in the police in Oslo? Is it a fear that you will list expenses that strictly do not belong there? Or is it simply so that it becomes too expensive for this government to pay the actual cost of the national tasks you have?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1534	This is not due to a lack of trust in the police in Oslo, which is doing a pretty formidable and big job. There is no fear of dealing with the challenges either. However, estimates are not the easiest measures to carry out a comprehensive budgetary management, nor for a local police officer. It's a challenge local police officers have, whether they're police officers in Oslo or in other police districts. I assume that the Storting agrees with me that the police will be praised for having tough trade unions, but then there must also be tough employers on the other side. I have the confidence in those who lead, that they are able to present things properly. That's my experience. Then I fully agree with the president that Bondevik I is the tyre name of the central government, just like Bondevik II is the tyre name of a center-right government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1541	Then the President and the Council of State have a common sense of reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1544	I am simply wondering whether the Minister of Justice can guarantee that there are police-related reasons behind the priorities that have been put into practice when terrorist police – if you can call it that – and on embassy guards. Or is it that there are other considerations behind? And why is it that Norway is the only country in the Nordic region, familiar to me, that has armed watchkeeping outside embassies? Does the Council of State consider that there is an appropriate way to ensure the security of the embassies?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1549	The President will assume that ‘terrorist police’ shall mean ‘anti-terrorist police’ in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1552	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1557	I do not go into the details of safety assessments. I've never done that from the Greatness Chair. But there are always whole assessments on which to base. We have obligations towards other countries as to how safety tasks are to be carried out. It's the government's responsibility. The armed guard that the representative is looking for is not a good thing. I think it was said earlier, but it's only in parts of the day. There are also other security measures, which I will not go into – I find it absolutely wrong to do so. But what is absolutely crucial is that when we have tasks and responsibilities in relation to this, we will, of course, take the steps that are being taken here by this proposal to the Stortinget, which has unanimous agreement, and ensure that there is financial coverage so that this should not affect ordinary, ordinary and important crime control. There has been a dialogue about it with the Oslo police, and it is also expressed actively through the police officer's comment in their own magazine, that you see positively how the government has come back and handled this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1564	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1569	I must say that I am not convinced of the argument either from the Ellings of the Advancement Party or from Inga Marte Thorkildsen. It seems that the agenda for Mr No Marte Thorkildsen is something quite different than changing the way of budgeting for the Oslo police. So she wants, through decisions, to take out the embassy guard, escort service, the emergency team, extraordinary expenses of state visits and the bodyguard service, to her own post. But I think it's about a completely different agenda. She actually wants to remove the guard at the embassies, and I would say that it will be a very unwise act. Of course, it will also create uncertainty for the people of Oslo that there is no watchtower where possible terrorist attacks can occur, as against, for example. embassies and the like. No Marte Thorkildsen says to give priority to people's security over American emotions. There is nothing on this issue that we are now dealing with, which does not prioritise Oslo's people's security, rather on the contrary. That's why we have the case for treatment here today, so we can allocate 110 million. To be SEK 85 million. kr. So the Oslo Police have sufficient resources to do the job they're supposed to do, and they're required to do it. It is also stated in the file that the additional costs involved in the security situation should not affect other ordinary anti-crime and public service activities in the police. Then comes the Progress Party with its proposal to change the way to budget. I haven't heard a single piece of argument to do it. Does this help the Oslo police to create security for the people of Oslo? I haven't been convinced of it. I don't think the Oslo police are going to be any better at putting expenses in a different account than you are doing today. I am also sure that the guards and the work done around embassies, escort services, etc. will benefit the people of Oslo in the long term. A change in the budget will create less flexibility for the Oslo police to be able to use the resources and frameworks they have today. In fact, by dividing the budget lines, you will get less control over what the Oslo Police actually use in a year. So Oslo's population won't be losers. The people of Oslo are actually winners with today's budgetary system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1581	I am pleased with my co-representative and colleague Carsten Dybevig's willingness to strengthen the Oslo Police, but he did well when he said 110 million. kr. It's a minority proposal that's here, but at least it's 85 million. kr with which it is to be strengthened, and it is very significant. When I take the word now, it's because it actually went up a light for me. It might have done so before, but SV has made its proposal today, and the Progress Party has said that they will give it subsidiary support. It is a little special when you hear the reasons for the SV's proposal, namely that SV has carried out on an independent basis a safety assessment of how the Embassy Guard team in Oslo should be carried out. They would then have a separate post office in order to weaken the embassy guard, and to be able to step down the appropriations for this type of action. When the Progress Party then chooses to give it subsidiary support, it would be especially important if it were to have a majority, because then one could stand in the situation that the Progress Party wants the estimate and full package, to say so, while SV wants a separate item in order to reduce the amount. I am very pleased that the Dørum Council from this interlocutory does not address safety considerations. I am very pleased that it is left to the PST, to the Oslo Police, to the U.D. and others to make that kind of assessments, and that this pulp is not to be used to make security assessments, threat assessments, as the SV's representative tried to add. It may be – I have nothing good to do with it, but it is clear that SV has it – that it also has something to do with the location of the embassies. It has been said that perhaps the American embassy is at risk in Oslo. There may be an explanation for the difference between the Nordic capitals. But I don't think that's really interesting. What is interesting is what threat assessments the right authorities are making. If we were here in Stortinget to step in to make threat assessments from the pulpit, I think we would have ended up in a real mess. After all, Ellingsen got a very good answer from Dørum, and he said in his post that if he got a good answer, he would be pleased. That answer was so good that if I had been Ellingen, I would have pulled my proposal and failed to vote for his SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1592	I have to say with respect that I think the proposal from the Progress Party is almost unbelievable. With the justification that these expenditures should be an estimate, most of what we adopt in relation to the State budget could be justified as estimates. Many will claim that this is very necessary activity, and you will also want more. I think that just when it comes to these types of problems, the post from SV's Inga Marte Thorkildsen shows that it's in itself the best argument that there shouldn't be an estimate. How much money we spend on this is something that should absolutely be subject to political control. And with regard to all the other urgent tasks that the Norwegian police have: how are we going to balance what is not to be an estimate, and what is to be an estimate? It is almost hopeless to have to consider. So the question of whether you need a separate post to make these assessments, which No Marte Thorkildsen draws up. In my opinion, we don't. It is fully possible for other activities in official Norway to ask policy questions about the activity, if they do not have such a separate item as is requested here. You have every opportunity to make suggestions in this house and limit the allocation, with different reasons. In view of the political assessment of such proposals, it is not necessary to have a separate item, as SV now asks. In my opinion, it could also be reasonably harmful in relation to how we assess Norwegian police, if we are to start distinguishing certain types of police activities. Many other districts would have a strong desire to distinguish various specific activities in their own posts, for example: Coastal police districts, inland police districts with environmental crime, border-related crime, etc. either as a justification for more, either as estimates or as a justification for unnecessary activity, and should be cut. That's why I think that politically it's an unfortunate way we'd move in if we were to start splitting up posts that way. The second element in relation to an assessment of your own post is the question of whether it could have any influence over how the police role is actually performed in Oslo. Is it the case that we are going to limit some police officers to running out of embassy duty, and that we are not going to take the profit-criminal that is being discovered on the way there, because we are actually sorting under another budget line? That is probably the main reason why we in the Labour Party believe that this is a proposal we will not support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1601	It was very reasonable in the last speech, Knut Storberget, came along. However, I would say that it was unreasonable what he concluded with, namely that the police in a way cannot arrest people on the way to duty. The police are the police, and when the police are the police, they perform the police tasks completely regardless of what kind of service they want. So I don't think that should be a problem. I just wanted to sweep that doubt aside. What we agree with today's Advancement Party is that we are concerned that the Oslo Police are getting less time to carry out the tasks for the people of Oslo. What will always be the first priority will be the directives from the Ministry of Justice and the Directorate of Police on national considerations we have to take, they can be political or not political, they can be based on threat assessments, they can be based on what No Marte Thorkildsen has talked about, namely the need for other nations to protect their embassies with policemen standing outside as living flashes, rather than with policemen holding ‘casunas’, who are bombproof and bulletproof, and who will thus be the safest and best place to carry out this type of service. We agree that it is important to ensure that this does not affect the population of Oslo. We have proposed that this money be separated by a separate post, but it is said by Greece that this will give less flexibility to the Oslo police. I'll try to give a reasoning that it will give more flexibility for the Oslo police to do as the Progress Party and SV say here. At the moment when there is a national task and the Government or the Police Directorate says that here the police only have to deal with guards, they have to deal with that directive, of course, regardless of the size of the budget line. We have to do these problems, because this has first priority. Then you have to deprioritize other things, until an additional allocation has arrived. This creates uncertainty about any other crime that the police are fighting, until they have been given this extra funding that we are giving them today. What we're saying is that this is an unsustainable way of doing it, because the police are not sure if they can cover the costs they have related to national tasks. It's this uncertainty we feel. Therefore, we believe that separating this into a separate item can be a good proposal. We would like to see whether the Council of State can eventually come back to the Grand Duchy with an assessment of the overall costs of the police relating to national tasks, and whether there are other ways to address precisely these challenges for the Oslo Police. But here today we are proposing what we are proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1618	I'm going to start where the light came up, the representative of Helleland. How brightly the light shined, there may be no doubt about it, but I shall now comment to the best of my ability on what he challenged me. It is clear that the representative has a point when he resonates with our approach and with the approach of the SV in their first post. There is – and it will probably not surprise the representative of Greece – a fairly large difference in the justification. The Progress Party has never — and has no — ambition to reduce the appropriations for the police, on the contrary. We've been a champion and we're going to continue to be a champion. This may be in contrast to the Right Government Party, which in the revised budget – if I do not remember completely wrong – was involved and reduced the appropriations for this and, as the rumors now say, is part of a budgetary settlement where the justice sector does not exactly appear to be the big winner. Without me taking that debate in advance, we need to discuss who is doing what in relation to the justice sector. I would like to take that debate. As regards the Workers' Party and the Workers' Party's willingness and ability to give priority/not priority, at least I believe that there were nuances between the insertion of the representative Rui and that of the representative Storberget «in the pen». It is probably a fact, although perhaps the representative of Storberget is in doubt about it when he talks about national tasks around the whole country, that there is a difference between operating environmental crime in Hedmark or in Northern Ireland and having national tasks as an embassy guard, where you have international agreements and a threat picture that you cannot foresee. That's exactly where I think there's a different dimension. Ordinary police work will ultimately focus on priorities within this committee and within what is considered reasonable by the Storting. But there's something here that we kind of can't say no to. There are agreements on watchkeeping around our embassies, and when threats arise out there, where there is no willingness to risk life and health for political representatives or for others in our society who need extra protection. Out of respect for it – and not least for what the representative Heikki Holmås was into here instead – and out of respect for those who are at least victims of this bet, we have an obligation to look at whether today's organisation is good enough. Some of us are strongly in doubt that that is the case. You go out and ask police officers in Oslo, I think they'll be very loyal. At the same time, they will clearly say that this has its price. I was instead thinking that several of us have been involved and debated this. The Oslo police - if I don't remember faults - dropped over 90 pst. of the cases relating to theft of profits. It means something to the morals of the Oslo Police, and it should mean something to our attitude about giving appropriations to the job they're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1631	Initially, we believed in the Christian People's Party that the views expressed by the representative of Greece and the Council of State fully covered the views of the Christian People's Party in this matter. But as the debate has evolved, I think it might be necessary to stress that it is also important for the Christian People's Party that it is not left to anyone to make the threat assessments in this country. It's important that those who are going to do it do it, and that they have confidence. For the Christian People's Party, it's full trust. We don't think the threat assessment is about protecting American emotions. It is very possible that there is a way that the Socialist Left Party views it and that there is a conclusion to an assessment that they have made. It is, as we see it at least, very little credible. We also believe that as the situation is, it is important that we go in favour of the allocation proposed here. I have not heard that there is someone who will go against it and say that here we grant too much money. On the contrary, it has been said that the police in Oslo should have the necessary resources at their disposal to carry out the tasks to be performed in the capital, with all the additional functions involved. The practical organisation of this has also been explained by the Council of State. I want to make it clear on behalf of the Christian People's Party that we have full confidence in the way this is done. We think that's the best way to do it. Of course, we will not vote in favour of any of the other proposals submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1644	It makes no sense to claim that SV runs a threat assessment on its own from this pulpit. What we're doing is we're asking a simple question: what is it that would tell Norway, and as far as I knew no other Nordic country, has armed watchkeeping on the outside of the American and Israeli embassies? What was to be said – something, for example. The representative of Greece believes – that having a man armed outside an embassy could stop a complete terrorist attack? Or maybe it was the representative Dybevig who suggested this. I'm just asking, is there any police-technical assessment on the basis of such a thinking, or is there any other reason behind it? The question remains: does this mean that one has decided for this way of looking after two embassies in Oslo, and that the consideration of the people's need for security in Oslo must give way to other reasons that are not really rooted in the real world? It must be allowed to ask such questions – quite timely questions in my opinion – from this pulpit, because they may have consequences for how we grant money in this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1653	The President will confirm that it is permitted at any time to ask questions from the President of the Grand Duchy. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 509]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1663	The store is ready to vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1671	During the debate, Mr Nistad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the project with updated revenue and cost figures, alternative arrangements for toll collection and alternative ferry connections between Skjersholmane – Sunde, as well as other forms of financing and organisation of the project. The majority assumes that a new case will be dealt with in the spring of 2004.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1705	During the debate, Mr Eng has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for measures to be taken by the Government to facilitate an increase in freight transport in general and the carriage of goods by rail in particular’. Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1746	During the debate, Mr Solholm put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to authorise the production of eggs from the mature rainbow trout and salmon without imposing requirements other than those resulting from the emission permit and veterinary considerations.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to grant a free concession for the production of roe of mature salmon and rainbow trout so that an attempt can be made to develop a market for such a product.’ Alternatively, between the proposals of the Progress Party and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1775	To Case No 5 and 6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1798	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 3, from Inga Marte Thorkildsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘National tasks such as embassy guarding, emergency team, Royal Police Card, costs of state visits and bodyguard services, are assigned to their own posts and are added to the catch line ‘estimation appropriations’.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1822	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘As from the 2005 government budget, the government is asking for the disbursement of appropriations for the national and highly varied tasks of the Oslo Police, such as embassy watchkeeping, the Royal escort service, the emergency team, the additional costs of state visits and the bodyguard service at its own post.’ The Progress Party has indicated that they wish to support the proposal in a subsidiary manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-20.ana.ud182e1919	There is an alternative proposal, No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2003 budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:CronesExpenditure:440Police Directorate – Police and Linguist Senate [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3441)]]
