ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e49	The delegation of the Council of Europe delegation to the 2003 session of the Council of Europe, part 2 of Strasbourg, is the subject of a request for leave signed by the Head of Delegation Haakon Blankenborg. The application concerns a period of leave from 1 April to 3 April for the representatives of Haakon Blankenborg, Øystein Djupedal, Bent Höie, André Kuckestad, Per Erik Monsen, Jorunn Ringstad and Elsa Scarbøvik. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund For Uppland County: Reidun Gravdahl For Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad For Sogn and Fjordane County: Liv Signe Navarsete For Sør-Trøndelag County: Jørund Leknes For Vestfold County: Inger Møll and Vidar Andersen3. Inger Møll is elected to the Lamentations for the time she meets the representative of Elsa Scarbøvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e121	For the treatment of St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 and St.prp. No 55 for 2001-2002 the Stortingen decided to lay down a number of garrisons and liners. No parts of the country were foreshadowed by closures. The conversion of the defence created an engagement, and several places in the country feared the consequences of the disappearance of the corner stone company from the community. That was the main reason why the then defence minister, Bjørn Tore Godal, put in 250 million. kr to the conversion municipalities. The potential for post-use facilities is very different. Some garrisons are located in what many in central strata are likely to call no man’s country, while others are coastal pearls, which in the case of any commercial sale could bring revenue into the hundred trillion krone class. In other words, conditions in individual municipalities vary greatly. The budget statement was adopted in the course of the budgetary procedure. S. No 7 for 2002-2003 that the Government is able to transfer properties, buildings and installations for which the Defence no longer needs, to municipalities or to a large number of defence personnel in connection with the exploitation of establishments for the development of economic activity. The payment decided that this transfer may be made free of charge or by reduced remuneration. The size further meant that this will apply to a few heavily burdened communities. The Defence Committee did not wish to enter and deal with individual municipalities. So there is no desire from the defence committee. The Labour Party does not believe it is desirable that this house should handle some municipalities in this type of case. However, when we get feedback from several places in the country that Defence Building does not consider that some municipalities are ‘highly burdened communities’, it is important to have this case clarified. I find this strange in a situation where Kommune-Norge is struggling, not least some municipalities where the presence of the defence has been the driving force in the local economy and has been the main job. In short, the disappearance of defence has helped to weaken some communities. Norwegian industry is today in what many call a crisis. Several municipalities also feel that they do not understand the difficult situation they are in. When the Storting made its decision in December last year, there was a premise that there were, in fact, some ‘strongly burdened communities’. Does the Council of State think that there are any communities in Norway that are heavily burdened? There are today several debates in which defence construction is heavy inside. It's e.g. in the debate on national installations such as Oscarsborg – it comes in a separate document No. 8 proposals, so we have to come back to this – and it is in debates about the takeover of more central installations such as Steinkjer, Andøya and municipalities that are struggling with unemployment and therefore want to develop decommissioned military camps, which can be found, for example. on Rissa. There are plenty of examples that will probably emerge later in the debate. Other types of property, such as recreational, outdoor, island and coastal pearls, should also be ensured for the general public. After I submitted this interpellation on 20 February, I saw to my great joy the Minister of Agriculture Sponheim's play in the Evening Post on March 3rd this year, and I have included this happy title. So here, state councillor Sponheim goes in to secure the people's beach pearls: «Land properties should be sold to Statskog, Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim believes. Unique and attractive coastal areas along the sea and large beautiful mountain areas shall thus be ensured the long-term use of the public opinion.’;» State Council Sponheim is a member of the same government as the Minister of Defense, and I would therefore ask: is this something that the Government is behind, so this is very joyful, but can we get a confirmation or a confirmation of it? He, as I understood it, ordered State Forest to purchase a substantial part of the area that the Defense owns, in order to ensure the public's right to travel in these areas. On the other hand, this increase is going to be 100 million. kr on the revenue side adopted by the Government and the Progress Party in the budget. This Decision imposes a pressure on it to find a solution that is also economically sound. In other words, it affects money as well as principles. For the Labour Party, this is therefore an important debate, just as it is important for several municipalities in the whole country. I would ask the Council of State to explain what has been done in relation to the decision of the Storting. Is there any ‘strongly burdened community’ in her eyes? How does the Council of State view the work of Defence Building in relation to transfers made free of charge or at a reduced price? Has defence construction followed Storting's decision, or does there exist no ‘strongly burdened community’?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e145	I will begin by drawing up two objectives for the Defence, namely better quality of education and training for the Defence and the need to get more money back to get this done. There are two objectives at the bottom of all activity The defence has ahead, also the activity for which the Defence Building is responsible. We're in the middle of a major conversion. That's what makes the defense go down a number of locations and that a large part of the property of the defense is to be sold. The defence is now Norway’s clearly largest property manager. We had 6 million in 2001. m2 building mass, and we had 1.4 million. covers the base area, spread over 400 municipalities. Of this, 2 million is going to be going to be. m2 building mass is sold as a result of the conversion process. And I want to add: it's also going to be a funding base for the transition process we're in the middle of, related to the 118-framework for which the Government and the Workers' Party have signed an agreement. So we're going to release funds from things we don't need, from things we need. One of the main challenges of migration is therefore to deal with the disposal of superfluous property, construction and installations in a fast and cost-effective way. This property stock representing a resource shall primarily contribute to operating reductions and sales revenue. In St. prp. No 55 for 2001–02, which was dealt with last June, it is clear that the sales income of property, construction and civil engineering has been governing the economic impact of choosing different organisational and localisation options. So the size is based on the income when you've sewn together the total conversion. It is provided that the income we receive is to be reinvested in order to implement the plan adopted by the Storting. Defence construction is the manager of the properties, and the Ministry of Defence has commissioned them to dispose of the end-of-life building stock as quickly as possible, but also with the greatest possible benefit in sight. Defence buildings are a professional property manager and shall be self-financing after conversion. On the one hand, we cannot demand that defence builders operate commercially and become self-funding, while on the other hand, we deprive them of the opportunity to do just that. On the disposal of the country’s real estate, all States are required to comply with the disposal instructions adopted on 19 December 1997. The disposal instruction requires disposal at market price. But it is true that the Ministry of Defence has had a mandate since the 1990s to override the requirements of the disposal directive for sale at market prices. This was also confirmed by a decision in the autumn, which clearly states what has also been the authority of the department in the past, that property, construction and facilities for which the organisation no longer needs, to municipalities or to a large number of defence personnel related to industrial development can be transferred. It may take place free of charge or for reduced remuneration. So the authorization gives an opening to exceptions, but the general rule will still be the market price. And in cases where an affected municipality wants to acquire property, the general rule will still be that it should be done at the rate. Any disposal at a sub-price or free of charge will occur in exceptional circumstances. I would like to stress that the mandate applies in the context of exploitation for business development and not for housing development. I would also like to point out that the mandate included a clause that means that the municipality cannot resell all or part of the property without the agreement of the Ministry of Defence until 10 years have passed. So the municipality cannot transfer or resell to, for example. a real estate company or to other stakeholders during that period. Da St. pp. No 45 for 2000-2001 was dealt with in June 2001 and the Labour Party Government has provided some guidance for dealing with superfluous properties, buildings and structures. It was clearly said: ‘Derogations from the provisions of the Disposal Instructions should, however, only be made after a detailed assessment in the specific context of highly concerned communities or in specific cases.’;» I am not convinced that the municipalities are in any case earned by taking over the properties, constructions and installations the defence is to dispose of. I think the most important thing for municipalities is to establish new jobs to replace the jobs that are being laid down, not necessarily that the municipality should be the owner of the building mass that will form the basis for these activities. It's a big challenge, both professional and economic, to manage property. That's exactly what the defense has experienced, and that makes us sell down now. In many cases, local communities are likely to find the most favourable way to allow private investors to take on the financial costs of setting up their business activities, while municipalities can reap the benefits of employment and tax revenue. I therefore believe that a deviation from the disposal instructions should only be made in cases where the desired effect can only be achieved if the municipality itself is the owner of superfluous building masses. Sandtorgholmen, which was transferred to the municipality of Harstad in 1996, is an example of the use of the power to transfer properties, buildings and installations at a reduced price or free of charge. That is, one has deviated from the disposal instructions. We have several examples of properties being sold directly to the municipalities, but at a rate, as we saw with the Heimevernsskole at Torpo, which was sold to Ål Municipality in 2002, and the Havarvarverskole in Borre, which was sold to Vestfold County Municipality in the same year. The conversion of defence means that a number of municipalities and communities which have traditionally been defence dependent are affected. What we put on in St. prp. No 45 for 2000–2001 is helping the communities most hard hit by providing them with support for conversion. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs to manage funds for the conversion programmes. It is the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs that decides whether a municipality will acquire status as a municipality of conversion and also makes the award to the municipalities concerned. This applies only to municipalities that have lost jobs as a result of the conversion of the defence. I think it is quite clear that the Ministry of Defence's responsibility is to those regions and local communities which are particularly affected by reductions or closures of military activities, i.e. those areas which have had a large part of defence work and which are severely affected. In reality, non-remunerated transfers are a framework reduction for defence. Without sales income from the property stock, it will not be possible to implement the new defence structure, which the Workers' Party and the Government have united. In addition, at the autumn budgetary procedure, we had an agreement between the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Government's parties to increase sales revenue from Defence Building by 100 million. kr, i.e. an increase in the requirements to base market economy considerations. In other words, we're required to realize 220 million. SEK in income from real estate sales in the current year. I therefore see Storting's decision as a clear signal to use the market price in the first row. Then it is still the case that the Ministry of Defence will deal with enquiries about the acquisition of the property of the Defence in individual cases. We're going to try to take special care where there's a basis for that. But in relation to some of the questions that the interpellant raised, namely the sale of leisure properties to the Ministry of Agriculture and to the State Forest, we will of course also assume that this price will be paid here. We have a constructive dialogue with the Ministry of Agriculture on how this can happen, and on what price will be the right one. It is both my view and that of the Government that it is attractive for the public to have access to the important recreational areas here, but it has never been intended that State Forest should have the plots free of charge, as little as it has been intended that the Ministry of Justice, when they take over the facilities and the building mass from the Ministry of Defence, will have it free of charge. The Ministry of Justice has paid an approximate market price, and the same will be done in the negotiations we have with the State Forest. Everything else will be a transfer from the defence budget to the agricultural budget or from the defence budget to the municipal budget. There are processes that should take place in this Chamber and not through individual handling in the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e195	I thank you for your answer. I understand that there has to be an economy in this transformation going its way, which we both agree with. But I feel that what is the virtue of this is what Sponheim has brought here. There is, of course, funding in this. As far as I understand – and I understand that what the government has said here is the government’s view – he will sell productive forests that provide some millions, perhaps billions, of income. That money is then to be transferred to the Ministry of Defence to buy these ‘beads’. I think it's good. Then we keep order in the transition and in the economy, and we get these 'beads' secured for the public. Let me say right away that I think Defence Building is doing a good job, yes I'll almost say one too good job, so it's not the ones I'm criticizing. But it may be the Council of State that does not use the authority she has to deviate from the disposal directive, which she believes can be done to municipalities and individuals who want to enter the business. One of the reasons we have this interpellation here today is, of course, that we have received a lot of enquiries from individual municipalities in this country that feel provoked by Defence Building. This will of course be true when you are in a negotiating situation. In Trønder-Avisa one could read in December: ‘The price negotiations have been organised as a dictatorship on the part of Defence Construction, claims Steinkjer rapporteur Per Sverre Rannem. There has been a high degree of arrogance in taking into account Steinkjer's position as a municipality of conversion.» I quote this because there are such enquiries we get on the desk from these municipalities. Whether that's right or not, I'm not going to go into it. But at least it's a reality that we're facing, and then we're going to have to clarify whether the Council of State has received the same kind of enquiries, and whether the individual cases that we're meeting will be dealt with by the Council of State in a way that makes a deviation from the waste directive. Let me finally say that there are large areas that we have to try to secure for the public, and if the Council of State wants to confirm that it is in the government's arrangement, that matter is fine on my part.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e215	I'm absolutely sure that the interpellant and I have a lot of common goals. The best thing is if we can secure large areas for the public, not least in the beach zone, without it going off the defence budget, but from another department's budget, which then only re-disposals its areas, which I think is a wise re-disposal. Similarly, I think it is nice that the Ministry of Justice when we lay down in Stavern, can take advantage of this amazing facility and use it in a sensible way, but of course pay the same as they would pay if they were to put the Justice Department's activity elsewhere. Then we'll solve societal tasks in a constructive way, without any department other than the one that's responsible for a task getting the bill. I understand that many rapporteurs find it tempting to go to Stortinget to try to get a better price. That's not new. The Workers' Party knows that has been in government many times. Of course, it happens often, and it will always be that if you think you get a better price by coming here and putting pressure on Defence Building, you try it. It's not just Defence Building either, we have the exact same thing about the FLO, the organisation that's going to make purchases for the Defence, and that's sitting and negotiating everything from MTB contracts to other things. If you believe in the other side of the negotiating table that you can get a better price by putting pressure on Stortinget, you do. My job is to leave those who are responsible for negotiating to negotiate in peace. But I would like to make a comment related to Steinkjer, because Steinkjer Municipality was not satisfied with funds allocated to conversion municipalities under the Ministry of Local Affairs in 2002, i.e. that the Ministry of Local Affairs did not define Steinkjer as within these criteria for the award of conversion funds, which were actually taken by the defence budget and given to the municipal budget in order precisely to ensure these municipalities. So here the Ministry of Local Affairs has made an assessment related to Steinkjer. So I would also say: I realize that I will be subjected to criticism in those cases where someone wants to get an empty cheaper than what we are willing to sell it for. But I would also like to remind you that there is another criticism a Council of State may be exposed to. We had a case last year related to an admiral dwelling in Horten, where it was created an impression that this was to be sold at underprice. In this regard, this council received letters from the control committee here in the house about whether this was correct, and in the letter there was a clear lead of a critical voice. So if you're going to sell at underprice, at least you have to be crystal clear and absolutely sure that this is a case where it's right to do it, and that it's not because it's been media lookups, press, party contacts or other things that can be asked questions. The safest thing for all parties is to stick to the market principle and work closely with the Ministry of Local Government to define which municipalities are specifically entitled to be exceptions to the rule. I think the Ministry of Local Affairs is actually better able to assess that than the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e226	The Council of State stated that the Ministry of Justice had taken over Stavern's rent at market prices. What I don't fully understand is what the camp is used for in relation to this with access to the public. In my previous career, I have been in Defense, in the first-time service at Stavern, and it is a fantastic facility. Thus, once the Ministry of Justice has taken over this plant at market prices, it is not said that the public can use it. There has to be a context in what the Defense does, not just selling it at market price. What the Council of State is obviously concerned about is constantly talking about underprice and overprice and market price, so that there is a price discussion. That's not what was meant by Halvorsen's interpellation. The defense is a giant inside property. As the Council of State also stated in its statement, the defense had before St.prp. No 45 for 2000-2001 was treated, responsible for about six million square metres of building mass and about 1.4 million of floor area, of which 2/3 were on rented land. The building mass was spread over 400 municipalities in the country. That means that over 90 pst. the municipalities of the country were involved in some way. In St. prp. No 45 was the goal to dispose of between one and two million square meters in connection with the conversion of the Defense. Of course, this affects many communities. The defence is a big institution, and the conversion affects many municipalities hard. The working party laid down the following principle, which was stated in that proposition: ‘A key principle of disposal is that the net economic dividends of the Defence shall be maximised. In exceptional cases, where there are serious reasons, it may be appropriate to consider the transfer of material free of charge.’;» Of course, the Labour Party is in favour of the policy put forward by the Government of Stoltenberg under the then Minister of Defence, Bjørn Tore Godal. Of course, we want the best of the defense. That being said, we also believe that there are likely to be ‘specific cases’. There are likely areas where the transfer should take place free of charge. Local communities hit hard in several ways, such as the loss of industrial jobs, high unemployment or other, should be given special arrangements. There is, however, a problem today, because we do not know which criteria are used. Who is it that defines ‘a congested community’? We who sit in this room – but not least the municipalities concerned – have to be clear about this. Everything is related to everything, it's been claimed by a wise woman. In this case, it involves, inter alia: the situation of local authorities, the situation in industry, affecting local communities, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e244	The representative Lund has just said that the Labour Party is of course behind the then government of Stoltenberg and then Minister of Defence Bjørn Tore Godal. It is not particularly alarming, but I hope that the Workers' Party will also support the decisions they have taken in Stortinget after the government replaced Stoltenberg by another government. It is a fact that essentially there is an agreement that is behind the changes that the Defence Building and the Ministry of Defence are now implementing. The representative also said that it was not a discussion of prices that was intended with the representative Halvorsen's interpellation. I agree that there is reason to ask questions about what was meant by the interpellation. We have broad agreement on these matters. Fortunately, the working party has been at the top of the list. The aim of the transition is, as the Council of State mentioned in its statement, better quality and more for money. And within the overall objective, the sale of facilities for which the defense no longer needs is an essential part. I would like to stress that these properties are of course a great resource if they can be used, but they are also a great financial burden if the defence has to take care of facilities that they do not need. I would also like to stress that deviations from the disposal instructions are only an exception and should only be made after further consideration in the specifically heavily affected communities or in specific cases. Otherwise, this has also become a debate on the pearls of the coast. I don't fully understand the context, to be honest. This is a very good goal. If someone wanted to transfer these beads, so that they can be returned to individuals and communities, no one can disagree with that. But the representative Halvorsen hardly believes that this should be paid out of the Ministry of Defence's budget. In this sense, there is no contradiction between the wishes of the Sponheim Government Council and the work that we should do in the Defence Committee. Since the Council of State was in Stavern, I would like to mention a local example of how a good cooperation with the Ministry of Justice can be carried out. This concerns Vardåsen in Kongsvinger, where we are about to meet the great need for prison places in Norway by being able to enter a defence facility that no longer meets its original purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e259	I'd like to first bring up something that I didn't intend to say so much about. But since the representative Lund mentioned Stavern, whom I understand he has and has had a very good relationship with, it is not sold – it can be resolved by the Council of State in the future. But after what I understand, it's currently rented out to the Ministry of Justice, and now the public has access to this area more than ever – and that's good. The interpellant launches a theme that interests a lot of people around the country. The presence of the defence has marked a great many communities, and the defence has partly occupied large and interesting land areas. They are interesting because many people have seen the possibility to dispose of these properties, buildings and land in other ways on the day the defence is no longer present, which has now become a reality many places after the massive degradation that has marked the defense for many years. Following several decisions taken in the Grand Duchy, it has now been decided that over-numbered and freed buildings and structures should be sold as far as possible on the open market and, as far as possible, at market prices. This shall, according to the Ministry's calculations, be able to give the Defense an income of approximately. One billion kroner. This transfer must be made free of charge or at significantly reduced prices, as the interpellant points to. But this will only apply to a few heavily burdened communities. It could therefore be interesting to get an overview of the work of defence builders in relation to this, to know what defence builders have done on the occasion of the case – I had almost got an overview of which properties and buildings have been sold, which are to be sold, and at what prices. The party of progress has also previously asked for an advance in the disposal to be completed, and for quicker to bring the money back to the defense. Some have foreshadowed, and in particular municipalities, that the freed-up properties should be granted free of charge to, for example: municipalities in order to be able to dispose of the properties freely. The reason has largely been that these properties have once been given or sold cheaply to the Defence. That might be true in many cases. But it must also be borne in mind that the presence of the defence in a community over many years has given tax revenues, incomes to business, etc. And another thing -- not all detached properties are suitable for outdoor areas, they can in some cases be so suitable for residential areas and cabin areas. Maybe someone should think through it. Then I want to get into the department's cooperation and contact with Defence Building. How does it work? I would like the Council of State to say something more about that. I have a feeling that maybe the department should carry out a little better supervision – there have been a little too many cases, especially in my home country, Vestfold. And as the Council of State was in it, it disposes and is attempted to dispose of properties at a completely different price than what is intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e272	I am delighted to stand-in for the representative Kjetil Bjørklund today. In recent years, the size has decided to reduce a significant number of defence installations across the country. Many jobs have been lost or moved due to the change of defence, and this has hit some communities hard. To remedy this, it has previously been decided at 250 million. kr would go to conversion municipalities. Many of the defence properties are now to be sold. Of course, the value and use capacity of the various properties are very different, and so is demand. Last autumn, the size of the plot decided that municipalities or surplus defence personnel would have to take over such properties free of charge or more reasonable than the market price for industrial development. At the same time, the bulk of the population has included large revenues from the sale of such properties in the budget. Of course, it creates a pressure on the Defence for maximum returns in the sales process. For us in SV, it is very important to clarify that we are more concerned with using these properties in ways that benefit municipalities, county councils and the public, than they are to be disposed of in ways that provide the highest possible income for the state fund. Many natural pearls along the coast and otherwise in the country are today owned by the Defence Department, many of which are such that they are very suitable as recreational and open-air areas for the local population. These properties which are no longer to be used for defence purposes and which are of great value to the public should be disposed of in such a way that they benefit most people. This can happen in different ways, for example: by enabling municipalities to take over, and not least by taking over these properties by State forest, which is already managing large areas of land today, so that they will be managed in the future in such a way as to take account of the needs of the general public for recreational and open-air areas. Furthermore, SV considers that part of the properties that can be suitable for local cultural purposes, residential purposes, etc. should be disposed of to municipalities or organisations at a low price.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e289	When Stortinget decided that Norway should move from a traditional invasion defence to a modern and flexible defence, a comprehensive conversion process was initiated where the disposal of property is one of the tasks. When Defence Construction started on 1 January 2002, they took on the sale of, among other things, More than two million square meters of building mass distributed throughout the country. It's the largest disposal of property in Norwegian history. The defense will save hundreds of millions of dollars in annual operations and maintenance, plus that there will be income from property sales. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that we get a successful strategy for the disposal, cassation and phase-in of properties so that the conversion of defence can be carried out in the best possible way and as decided by the Storting. The general rule in the 1997 disposal directive states that disposal should take place in the way that gives the state the best economic result if the Storting has not decided otherwise, and an opening for exemption is also granted. It is important that the defense sells its properties, so that the conversion can proceed as planned. I agree with the representative of Gunnar Halvorsen that this is an important issue that affects many municipalities. The defence is now Norway's clearly largest property manager with building mass spread over 400 municipalities, and the problem of disposal is therefore a challenge for all of us as politicians. Buyers and local communities would like to take over the properties of the defence in the cheapest possible way. That shows all the enquiries we get. But as responsible politicians, we also have to realise that we have put very strong leadership on Defence Buildings to act market economy. The increase was due during the final treatment of the State budget Defence Building Disposal project, now Change Property, to increase revenue by more than 100 million. kr this year and realisable income on real estate sales of 220 million. kr in 2003. Defence is also required to save money and reduce building mass in the coming years and must follow up on the budget adopted by the Stortinget. In this case, the Christian People's Party is very concerned that cooperation between the municipalities, interested actors and the Defence must be the best possible, so that they can work together to find the best solutions. It's about good dialogue, being creative and open together, and hearing each other's opinions and arguments. I've been to some of these meetings, and I think it might be the most important part in terms of disposal projects. In special cases, disposals may also be considered at a reduced price or free of charge for use for new industrial activities, because the objective is to create new jobs and they should preferably be safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e308	In my opinion, Defence Building has been assigned an almost impossible task. There are no attractive business premises in press areas to contribute to the financing of the operations of the Defence Agency, which are now to be sold. On the other hand, the disbanded defence facility is partly in municipalities with a decline in the population and a sharp decline in employment as a result of the withdrawal of the defence. I think one can quickly end up in the following situation: the revenue from the sale will be absent, the costs of operating and maintaining the facilities that are there will continue to be incurred – partly with quite significant amounts. Over time you will see that in perhaps too many cases you will also get recovery costs that will be significant. I know about single plants where the renovation costs are estimated at 300-400 million. kr. for a single defence facility. So these aren't small amounts we're talking about. Then, of course, it's possible to stick your head in the sand and hope that the world is different from what it really is. Especially reasonable is such a strategy not. I will not accuse the Minister of Defense of doing so, but I must say that I was not particularly lifted by the Minister of Defence's reply. The Council of State is not just the head of the Ministry of Defence. She is also a member of a college that has a responsibility far beyond ensuring maximum income from the sale of the property of the Defence. The government, and the Minister of Defense included, has a responsibility to also see and take the social responsibility of using the properties of the community in the most reasonable way possible, even if this would mean that the Ministry of Defence's revenue from sales would be reduced. It's a confession that the Storting must also take. For Stortinget – to the extent of a total accumulation, all the lots – has included this not insignificant amount of sales in the financing of the future operations of the Defence. I think it's just a matter of time before we all have to admit that those revenues can be far different. We're experiencing increasing unemployment, we're experiencing a decline in employment in a lot of municipalities around, and not least we know that there are hundreds of thousands of square meters of vacant office space even in the press areas. And the situation is even worse around the many communities that are affected by the fact that the Defense reduces their activity. Of course, there are some facilities that can be sold at an acceptable price, but unfortunately I think in sum we are talking about reducing the Community's operating and repair costs as much as possible. This means that the strategy should be revised. It is appropriate to extend as far as possible in order to contribute to the ability of municipalities that see themselves serving to take over facilities, and hopefully in this way to contribute to new activities in these defence facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e324	The interpellant raises very important issues — of great importance, not least for the hard hit communities. The decision of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg of 13 June 2001 resulted in the closure of defence facilities which, in some municipalities and communities, were corner stone holdings. These defence-dependent municipalities are now supported by funds from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. At the same time, many of these municipalities have recognised that they will succeed in the process of conversion, depending on the use of the closed defence facilities for new business activity. In particular, in the context of the 2003 Defence Budget, the majority of the Stortinges decided on that basis that the Government could transfer property, construction and construction to the municipalities in connection with exploitation of economic development. This transfer shall be made free of charge or for a substantial reduction in remuneration. However, the size suggested as the criterion that this would only apply to a few heavily burdened communities. The problem is that the Defence and Defence Agency believes that there are no heavily burdened communities that can be transferred to the facilities at a much lower price. So my question is, what's going to happen if someone comes under that definition at all? Rissa kommune – the closure of Hysne’s fort – I believe is a municipality that is a good example of a heavily burdened community. The defense left Hysnes completely in 2002. 70 jobs disappeared, while 130 were employed at Hysnes a few years ago. In addition, the municipality has lost jobs at Fosen Mek Workshops. In 2001–02, the Fosen Mek peaked in employment of 1 300 people. The permanent staff of 400 people is today either cancelled or on leave. In addition, there have been many subcontractors linked to the company. Employment in agriculture has been reduced from 20 pst. to 16 pst. from 1999 to 2002. And other businesses, including: Cylinder service, has now gone to the perm warning. The sale of the peasants, who are planning to lay down their slaughterhouse with 40 employees, has the same effect. So in sum, this is a reduction in the number of persons employed by 500 in this municipality. That equals 20 pst. of the employees in the municipality of Rissa, and this has happened in just four to five years. The decline in population resulting from this is affecting an already heavily pressed local economy. The municipality is expecting a 2 million drop in the framework transfers. kr. This must well be an example of ‘a heavily burdened community’. I am quite convinced that these were the cases the Defence Committee had in mind when the decision was taken in connection with the budget last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e347	The defense is facing the greatest -- let's call it -- the operation in recent times. You have to rationalize, streamline, and you have a long-term budget by approximating the figures for four years to come. In this connection, the defence must be built approx. 200,000 m2, where the defence included convert three camps into one camp on the Setermo. Large expansions are to be made on Rena near Elverum, and Haslemoen is to be laid down – just to make the service more efficient. About 20 000 will be rented to build for themselves and the open market – a major challenge that can also have an impact on the private rental market. Here the defense must be conscious, so that this market is not destroyed by not taking the price of the crowd. Many communities — with limited business life and housing — will be very vulnerable if such a large player as the Defense comes on the track and possibly offers premises at underprice. This is probably as important as who gets what, at what price, this interpellation is about. Careful and long-term investment and planning by private and municipal actors can be more or less destroyed overnight. But this, I hope and believe, the defense sees, so that they are conscious of their role. Cooperation and transparency are the key to a good solution for all. And then to the very interpellation question of transfer, i.e. sale, of the property of which the defence is to dispose – at whom and at which price, and whether municipalities are to receive it free of charge or almost free of charge. 2,400000 m2 of barley shall be sold or, where appropriate, disposed of. This applies to all types of construction, from cabins, commercial buildings and houses to something such as chapels. So it's a very complex building mass – a building mass that can be simple, but also a building mass that is connected for several reasons and therefore has to be sold as a unit, a building mass that is of different standard in terms of maintenance and of different uses, a building mass that, depending on where it is located, is crucial for how interesting it is in the open market. This may also be a building mass that the community believes should belong to the community and that private operators should not be able to buy and use commercially. The deficit has a budgetary settlement that expects a good profit. The question then arises as to whether the defence has the opportunity or permission to give something away to municipalities that believe that they should get defence property almost free of charge because they lose jobs, and therefore positive ring-effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e362	This has been a very important debate. Let me first stress that there is agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government's fraction that the starting point for Defence Construction's sale of former military installations is to be market price. That's not what we're talking about. However, when the Defence Committee examined the budget for the current year and repeated the previous year’s decision that the transfer of buildings and structures may be carried out free of charge or at reduced remuneration where appropriate, the Committee put in this note on the guidelines for the examination of St. Prop. No 45 for 2000-2001, and it was clarified that this would apply only to a few heavily burdened communities, i.e. to an exceptional provision. In that case, the majority of the committees, which otherwise include the government parties, have also provided that there are actually a few heavily burdened communities and that derogations are available for use. I listened with interest to the representative Gunn Karin Gjul. There are now some communities that are more heavily burdened than others, and Rissa Municipality is clearly one of these municipalities. Such a municipality has not only lost defence jobs, but this has collapsed with the closure of industrial workplaces and results in high unemployment. I want to point out what Odd Roger Enoxen said, that the government is a college, and that the job development in Norway is now very worrying. So I agree with Per Ove Width that it might be okay to get an overview of what it is now Defence Building Steller with. I also want flexibility and flexibility from the Defence Building side in the handling of – and I will admit – the difficult matter that they are dealing with. Nor should I be surprised that we sometimes discuss the need for stronger political governance from the Council of State over Defence Building, at least a significantly better contact. The fortifications, with Oscarsborg as the country's leading defence-historical memorial, will be dealt with later in spring. But in this regard, I really believe that there is a need for greater respect and awe for the story that these fortifications represent, not least for Oscarsborg. On that basis too, it is probably my opinion that we should take a look at the business of Defence Building, and not allow Defence Buildings to operate almost as a state in the state, because at the end of the day we are responsible, and the Council of State, which has direct responsibility for Defence Building.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e377	I think the reorganization of the defence, which I myself have been involved in, has so far been sensible. Of course we were skeptical when we broke out Defence Buildings and the FLO, but I think the conclusion is that this has been successful. I want to say that this interpellation has been necessary and correct, and I think the Council of State has grasped and responded to what we were concerned about. I understood that the Council of State will secure the pearls for the public, and that she supports the principle of the Council of State Sponheim's play in the Evening Post on March 3rd, which says that one can dispose of some productive forest to get money in order to secure the people these pearls. I want to take this opportunity to say that in the case of Kristiansand, who has the Odder Island in the middle of town, and Marvika, who is also not so far from the center, in my opinion it would be dramatic if you were just to think economy in such cases. It is clear that these two facilities in the middle of Kristiansand have a value in the hundreds of trillions class, but in the long run they have enormous value for the public and for recreation and the environment. So if the state council wants to use the governance she's been saying here today, she'll use, among other things. to secure such pearls for the public, I have achieved a great deal with this interpellation. I think the spokespersons of the various parties have been very positive, and even the representative of the Progress Party Per Ove Wideth is very pleased that the public now has access to the area of defence in Stavern. I understood the representative, Mr Width, so that the public interest is also in the interests of the Progress Party. This debate shows that everyone, from the SV to the Progress Party, wants these facilities to be secured by the public. I very much agree with the representative, Enoch, who always has some reflected posts. I think we need to get a status overview of the work of defence builders: how far have we come in the negotiations, in what situation are you, what is the economy? I agree with Mr Enoksen. I think we can experience an economic backsliding here. It's not that dangerous if we can secure this through the sale to Statskog. Overall, I think it has been a good debate. I ask the Council of State to follow up the questions raised by other representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e392	As regards the question of getting a status overview of the work of Defence Building on the disposal of properties, I think it is natural that it comes in connection with the state budget for the autumn. When this year, 2003 is over, the first two years of the conversion period are completed. Then it is natural that we establish the status of the work. There is also reason to stress that the work to get an overview of the properties, to give them a price and market assessment and to start working with the municipalities is very extensive. Therefore, it is natural that most of the sales will come in the last half of the conversion period. But the screening work has to be done first. I know you're doing well. I would also just like to confirm what the representative Per Ove Width said briefly, that in the case of Stavern, it is not sales, but rent, and that the public has exactly the same access to the area as before. It's well taken care of. In the case of Steinkjer Municipality, I said instead that it is the Ministry of Local Government that allocates the 250 million. kr to be able to go to conversion municipalities. However, they are allocated to the county councils, which in turn allocate them further, and the county council of the Northern Trøndelag has not, therefore, benefited from Steinkjer’s funds in 2002. In the case of individual cases, this debate shows how difficult it is. Only during this debate have there been probably ten different projects where there are strong local interests to have a special scheme, and it is, of course, impossible to provide a concrete response to each case. That is why I prefer to focus on what the representative Hernæs was in, the areas in which we actually agree to get good solutions, such as Vardåsen in Kongsvinger. You get very far with dialogue. Also in Kristiansand, around Marvika, we have a good dialogue with the municipality to find solutions. It's the municipality that's the regulator. Defence construction has everything to do with close cooperation with the municipality in order to realise the market values that lie there. But I can also say, in the context of what I said instead of questions from the Control Committee, that if, as the Right-State Council in contact with Kristiansand, who has a rapporteur from the Right, I should be subjected to accusations that I am going further in goodwill than with other municipalities, it would not be easy in relation to the letter we received from the Control Committee, linked to a single sale in Westfold, on which Mr Width was involved. When the representative says that Defence Construction has been given a difficult task because they are to sell at market prices while in many ways having bad markets, it is at least an impossible task if you get as much as you can as much as you can in all the matters you are involved in. At least there'll be little money out of it. We simply have confidence that Defence Building has a constructive cooperation with the municipalities on a case-by-case basis. So far, solutions have been found, and an overview of the status is natural to take in the middle of this period, i.e. in relation to the State budget for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e407	That is the examination of case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e421	The rapporteur, Mr Gunhild Eyeyang, is not present in the Chamber. - Does anyone else ask for the word?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e424	Does that mean that no one is going to present anything on behalf of the majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e431	It's open to debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e434	If no one else wants to start the debate, I will. The debate we have here was put in a rather special light for some time ago, when South Africa's Minister of Education in the South African Parliament provided information that we have not yet known about here in the United Kingdom, namely that South Africa had received demands from Norway and three other countries to open up competition within its higher education services. The Minister of Foreign Affairs characterised the requirements received as potentially destructive to the South African education system. So this information came out in a debate in the South African Parliament, and we had never heard of it in Norwegian history. It shows the situation we have been facing in relation to the GATS negotiations. We who are elected to Norway must therefore be informed of the positions of our country through the debate abroad. We also know that Norwegian industry has been actively involved in the formulation of Norwegian requirements. It is unlikely that Norway has made demands, which were known in the autumn through leaks to the press, Bangladesh and Angola on liberalisation in the telecommunications and oil sectors, while we know that large Norwegian companies such as Telenor and Statoil have important interests in these countries. There has been a long debate on transparency in relation to Norway’s positions in the GATS negotiations. When this came up early in the fall, the government's signals were that it was completely unwilling to open up some forms of transparency. At that time, the WTO rules were pointed out and said that this would be contrary to the law. And then it turned out that it didn't work out. There were no WTO rules that prevented the type of transparency requested by Norwegian organisations and the opposition at Stortinget. As a result, the explanation of why transparency could not be granted was changed. The EU would publish a summary of its positions, it turned out, and the Norwegian team explained that a publication could harm Norway’s role in the negotiations. Finally, a summary of the requirements sent by Norway and also after each of the requirements received by Norway was published. We believe that these summaries are completely inadequate. The majority writes in their remark in the preamble that Norway has published claims. This isn't right. In the case of in-depth claims, a summary has been published which is not detailed and which makes it difficult to hold meaningful debate on the requirements. As far as the outgoing requirements are concerned, it is rather pointless to hold a debate on their profile without knowing to which countries the requirements are addressed. We are in a situation where we have negotiations that can have very extensive consequences for Norwegian society. We are constantly holding debates on the structure of our education sector, within the energy market, for example. Then we know that there are negotiations in place where changes made in these markets to liberalisation can be made irreversible through ties in WTO negotiations, i.e. errors we make can be irreparable. This happens almost without public debate, because we know very little about the content of the requirements. The role of Norway in these negotiations is therefore – and must be – a matter for more than the negotiators themselves. The meaning of our proposal has been to avoid that in two years' time we will be in a situation where the negotiations have been concluded and a package is presented which we here in the Storting must either accept in full or reject in full. Of course, there will be a quick debate without meaning, because Norway’s ability to reject such an agreement in its entirety will be very small. Therefore, the debate on the role of Norway in relation to developing countries in the world should now have been taken. We know that on the part of the European Union and the United States, there have been very large demands in relation to extensive deregulation and liberalisation. The question is: do we want Norway to contribute to this international press? Those who will be affected by any changes and obligations here in Norway also have an early requirement to be able to participate in the debate on this issue. A relatively short time ago, it was known that the EU positions in the negotiations, the requirements received and sent by the EU, had been published through a leak. This leakage should have eliminated the last anti-transparency demonstrations, including in Norway. It is clear that when the EU's demands are known, with the extensive role they play in the negotiations, it will be much less serious for Norway if our demands and positions were also published to a greater extent. Nevertheless, there is little support in this room for our proposals for publication. This may indicate that the majority believes that in relation to the WTO everything is in its best order. I think it is sad that the debate on the WTO has not been given a higher priority. I think the reluctance to do something about the comprehensive secret is a good illustration of why the WTO has such low legitimacy around the world as they have. I believe that even those who support free trade policy should have a greater interest in an open debate. That is why I think the majority voting is disappointing. There's something cramping over this urge to secrecy. I think it helps to reinforce the image of many of the WTO as an organisation with very weak democratic legitimacy, and where the ideals of transparency and good governance that Norway always declares to be a member of the international forum are not followed. I think those who are more positive to the WTO than I am should think about the old saying that there is no smoke without fire. In relation to the WTO, there have been some heavy smoking in recent years, a great deal of international attention, and it may be that there are things that would be beneficial for those who do not share my view of the WTO to a greater extent to be brought up for open debate. With that, I would like to address the suggestions that SV and others have made in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e455	The representative, Bjørlo Lysbakken, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e458	Today, we are seeing an increase in globalisation, where economic, technical, political, cultural and social processes increasingly provide links between actors, institutions and regions. World trade therefore embraces all of us. Global trade is not an end in itself, but one of several means of achieving human development and a better life for the poorest in the world. In order for globalisation to provide opportunities for all, it is important to establish rules of play to ensure that all parties are allowed to participate in good and that well-being is shared. The World Trade Organisation (WTO) is thus a central body in international economic relations, precisely because one here has a binding international law code, a dispute resolution system and a forum for negotiations between stakeholders. WTO decisions are taken by consensus, which means that decisions are not taken if one or more countries oppose them. The actors should be some about the gleams of players. That is a very central point to include in today's debate, when we know that the WTO has 145 member countries, and that the majority of these are developing countries. When the WTO aims to develop the best possible global trade regime, negotiations are now very important. Negotiations on patents and medicinal products must ensure that poor countries can obtain affordable medicines, including medicines. in the context of the AIDS epidemic. For Norway, enough of the negotiations on agriculture and reduction obligations, and besides access to the market for fish and fish exports, are the most important. The proposal we are now considering is concentrated on the WTO service negotiations, GATS. Services exceed 60 pst. of the world's gross domestic product and is the fastest growing part of the world economy. The Christian People's Party agrees with the proposers that openness in the GATS negotiations is important, because very many will notice the results. We must therefore ensure that the institutions responsible for trade, finance and investment do not neglect the agenda for sustainable development. In this process, the Government has put great emphasis on openness. Requirement Norway has received in the first phases of the GATS negotiations, has been published, and negotiating documents are published on the U.S. and WTO website. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has sent a list of Norway's bilateral negotiating requirements and proposals in the service negotiations. The government has said that it will keep the Storting informed on what is happening in the negotiations, and the Foreign Minister will keep an open statement on this. The Christian People's Party is aware that not all documents can be published as long as there is a round of negotiations, but we are content with the openness shown by the Government in this matter. I have to say that there were a lot of conspiracy theories in the previous article. It is clear that the details of the open store negotiations will be discussed with 165 representatives – now it is not so often enough – then it is not possible. No country can negotiate in this way. Norway has presented claims and proposals to 51 countries. Most of the requirements are in relation to maritime services, energy services or telecommunications. The Norwegian objective is to achieve better market access, more openness and greater leeway for Norwegian companies. We all know how much the Norwegian companies wear these days, so this is a very central point. The Norwegian requirements and proposals were based on input from the departments and from over 30 stakeholder organisations. This indicates that the requirements were carefully worked out in advance. It is not, however, such that the government forgets its needs and only sets up for our Norwegian companies. It may seem that this is what SV implies, when they have repeatedly criticized the Government for making demands on developing countries in the GATS negotiations. Firstly, most of the demands are directed towards industrialised countries. Secondly, the Government has chosen to submit proposals to the poorest countries, precisely to ensure that these countries are included in the bilateral negotiation process. Similarly, the proposals to developing countries are not formulated in the same way as to developing countries. Norway invited to cooperate and contact within the negotiating areas proposed. Developing countries themselves have pointed out that one of the main problems is that they do not get real participation in the multilateral trading system. That's exactly what the government is trying to ensure. The democratisation of WTO work processes was also one of the main points of the so-called UNDP debate book. SV believes that they need full transparency in the negotiations in order to conduct a real debate on the content of the requirements that are being imposed. The representative, Bjørlo Lysbakken, asserts in the class struggle on 26 February that we are facing an ‘offensive for global liberalisation; entire sectors must be liberalised’. The concern is that the potential of poor countries to build their own economy will be weakened and that they will not be able to build their own service sector. The issue is important, but it may seem that SV only sees problems in trade and liberalisation. There are many serious risks associated with the globalised economy, that is right, but also many global problems require international solutions. AIDS knows no borders. The same is true of the environment, poverty, crime and migration. The reason why almost all countries want to join the WTO includes: negotiation of market access, which is important for developing countries. It is also important to point out that GATS covers trade in services traded commercially. It means that public services are not part of GATS. Privatisation and postponing competition are not issues for negotiation. Members may decide for themselves which obligations they wish to assume. Changes in the global trade regime are necessary. We have a global economy today, but we don't have a global society. The Christian People's Party hopes that the WTO negotiations will lead to better access to resources and market access for the poorest countries. If we are to be able to achieve the UN's Millennium Goals, we must also include the poorest hosts in world trade. The Christian People's Party believes that the government is leading a good policy in the negotiations, which is at the best for both Norway and for the developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e486	In short, the GATS negotiations are extensive and demanding. It is difficult to maintain the transparency of these negotiations. But that's exactly why it's so important that we keep our tongues in the mouths of these negotiations. There is nothing wrong with promoting Norwegian business interests – we will do that. But it is absolutely necessary that we balance the different interests that we have in Norway in this area as well. Business interests may go across environmental interests. Business interests may go beyond what we believe should be the relationship between the public and the private sector in such important areas as health, education and care. Norwegian industrial interests may also go hand in hand with the interests of developing countries. In particular, it is in order to assess the interests of developing countries against Norwegian industrial interests that it is necessary to have an overview of the countries to which Norway has submitted a request for liberalisation. If we don't have that overview, we can't make these assessments. I don't necessarily say that there's a conflict in much of this, but I say that it's impossible for us to assess it when we don't have access to information. So it's like the international trading system has traditionally been characterized by considerable closeness. It has not earned the trading system. Therefore, it is important in the comprehensive processes that one is in now, that all try to facilitate maximum transparency. It will also serve the trading system. That's why I'm disappointed that there was no more will in this room to show openness.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e495	After listening to Lilletun, it is not so much for me to add, just to note that the setting, as it has been presented, has broad support both from the government parties in the hall and also from important parties outside the government. That means that I perceive that there is a fairly broad majority in the Storting that is behind the position that is now being presented. When Bjørlo Lichtbakken says that the opposition thinks otherwise, it is part of the opposition, as I see it. - That's one of them. The second is that I readily agree with Åslaug Haga when she describes the complexity of both the WTO system and the negotiating arrangements themselves. This is very complex, and of course it's a challenge for everyone, not least in terms of getting a result that we're going to get back to later today. And I think it's very important for the economic development of the world, and therefore the economic security of millions of people, that we reach the negotiating round that is now under way. We'll have a lot of opportunities to talk about that. I'm going during the spring session to give a statement in Stortinget, which I expect will be the starting point for a longer debate, however many of the really big steps should also be discussed. There is no doubt that the ministerial meeting in Cancun in September is going to be a very important meeting, but that this is a very complex process, we should just stress that. With regard to today's topic, I think maybe the minority who are in the Storting in this case is serving themselves with a lot of rhetoric, because the reality is that we have informed about the bilateral requirements that Norway has received. We have briefed and provided an overview of the bilateral negotiating requirements, and we provide an overview of the initial negotiating offers, which will be published as soon as they are sent to the Secretariat. These are things that it is well known that we have talked to the bodies of Storting about. What is then the disagreement relates to the part of this which is specifically concerned with the requirements promoted where. But what Bjørlo Lysbakken asks for is that in many ways we are going to negotiate or play with all the 52 cards with the picture page up. It can be relatively expensive for Norway. The point is, of course, that what we give to one country must be given to other countries under the best-condition clause. This means that other countries will then be able to choose not to promote their own equivalent requirements, because they expect Norway to deal with it, and so it is we who will have to give back the results. This means that in this context we are putting a much greater burden on ourselves than the other country is doing, and therefore it is a common way of dealing with this in the WTO that we are not going to do as specifically as Bjørlo Lysbakken mentions. I have also explained this in connection with the question-time question that he raised, related just to this example from South Africa which he mentioned, and I noticed with interest that he did not relate to the answer I gave him at the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e504	I wanted to make a brief comment to the representative Lilletun's posts. I think Jon Lilletun and I agree that we do not want Norway's obligations to assume, and the obligations we ask other countries to assume will have some consequences for the public service. The problem is that there is some uncertainty about the definition of public service in the GATS Code. Without me having the exact paragraph ahead of me now, the essence is that public services are defined as services that are not subject to competition from commercial operators. And it's clear that it leaves some doubt. One can reasonably claim within such a definition that neither the Norwegian education sector nor the health sector are public services. And the problem, if there is a dispute about this, is that it does not help whether the Foreign Minister, Lilletun and I agree on how we understand it, because it is not in this Chamber or in the Norwegian Government that that issue will be resolved, but in the WTO dispute resolution mechanisms. That is why we are concerned that, in view of the impact this can have on public services, these negotiations must also be approached with great care, for example. in relation to the obligations previously assumed by Norway in the education sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e509	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2470]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e525	The proposal by the representatives of Ursula Evje and Arne Sortevik addresses a real problem and a major disadvantage for Norwegian students in relation to the students of the EU countries. Although Norwegian students have the right to apply for admission to EU higher education institutions and universities, EU countries have reserved the right to charge higher tuition fees from students from countries other than EU countries. This can be done, for example: the consistency described by the proposers in the document that around 4,300 Norwegian students in the United Kingdom spend more than 100 million each year. kr from your own pocket to cover expenses for school money. In addition, the expenditure of the State is added to the fee grant scheme. It is obviously a disadvantage for Norway that the EEA Agreement does not ensure equivalent conditions for Norwegian students. That means we don't have equivalent access to any of the world's most prestigious universities. However, the solution proposed by the proposers cannot be recommended by the majority of the Committee, all of whom are not members of the Progress Party. The fact that the Government would now include higher education in the ongoing negotiations on EEA enlargement is neither an available solution nor a responsible one. The proposers would have known, if they had read the EEA notice, that the EU had rejected at an early stage the possibility of any renegotiation of the EEA Agreement, at least not until the EU enlargement is in place. The government has also informed Stortinget that the ongoing enlargement negotiations are limited to the adjustments necessary for the new EU members to join the EEA. The possibility that the issue of tuition fees for Norwegian students in the EU may arise at a later stage may not be excluded. For my part, I would like to point out that the safest way to solve problems with high tuition fees for Norwegian students is through EU membership. As far as the second proposal is concerned, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities is concerned. Norway has significantly liberalised higher education in the context of the Uruguay Round in the WTO and, as the Stortinge has discussed earlier today and is known, educational services are also part of the ongoing WTO service negotiations. In Norway, in fact, we cannot liberalise much more without equality with private higher education institutions. If this is what the proposers really want, it is difficult to understand from the text. In addition, this document No. The 8-proposal is not suitable as a basis for some good treatment of that issue. The majority have also allowed to point out that it is the Government and not the Stortinge that negotiates with other countries on behalf of Norway. The bodies of the Grand Duchy have normally had the opportunity to discuss negotiating mandates both for the EEA and WTO negotiations in several cross-roads and are kept informed on the way through the negotiations through the bodies of the Grand Duchy. I would like briefly to comment on the minority comment from SV and the Center Party. It may seem that these parties believe that Norwegian negotiating requirements and proposals in the GATS negotiations should apply to public education services. As has been pointed out in the Stortinget both today and before, so the Norwegian negotiating requirements do not. The requirements relate only to commercial education services. I would also like to remind you of what the Government has explained on a number of occasions, that it is based on a different approach to the requirements or requests towards developing countries than towards developed countries, in that it presents to developing countries demands together with an invitation to contact and cooperation in the relevant areas of negotiation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e549	I find it strange that the proposal of the Progress Party on non-discrimination of services – which is part of both the EEA Agreement and the GATS Agreement, where the GATS negotiations will start after 31 March of this year – is rejected, inter alia. on the grounds that the EEA Agreement cannot be renegotiated at this stage. Acceptance of a justification that the EU has notified Norway that any update/upgrade of the EEA Agreement is not relevant before the EU enlargement is implemented is remarkable. The requirement to change financial obligations of one party must obviously be either an upgrade or an update. Furthermore, it is incomprehensible to the Progress Party that the ongoing negotiations with the EU on the extension of the EEA do not involve an adaptation or renegotiation of the original agreement, as long as all ten new applicant countries will negotiate the same principles. The fact that a majority considers it necessary to stress that it is the Government and not the Storting that negotiates is almost imperative, all the time in a democratic society that Norway must be able to point out conditions that seem to be overlooked. In other words, as the representatives must be familiar with, the Grand Duchy will finally ratify the final negotiated agreement. However, Norway is now using considerable amounts of education in the 10 candidate countries to the EU. In particular, this medical student in Poland and Hungary, but also in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, an increasing number of students have found it necessary to apply for it. Since the negotiations are just about integrating these countries, it is imperative that we put an end to the fact that price discrimination also applies to these countries. This means that Norway must put the principle on the negotiating agenda. Iceland, one of our EFTA partners, has put education on the agenda of the negotiations. It is unlikely that Iceland has not received the same order from the EU for the content of the negotiations as Norway, and it is particularly strange that they have come to a completely different conclusion from that of Norway. I also find it strange that our strategy makers and dealers do not follow up on such recordings from other EFTA countries, when it will undoubtedly also be beneficial for us. There may therefore be reason to ask questions about the negotiating strategy in this case. When the rapporteur refers in his statement that it is too late to address this now, I would like to point out that, on request, ANSA has been confirmed by State Secretary Haugstad and Head of Mission Klingstedt in the Ministry of Education and Research that this department has submitted training to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who wanted to give priority to the negotiating theme. This department obviously also has, as the Progress Party has, a clear view that education is, or should be, part of the negotiations. As one conclusion, the Government, with the honourable exception of the Ministry of Education and Research, does not seem to be interested in the internationalisation of Norwegian education adopted by the Stortinget, and in following up the agreements we might have in that area. This is a pity in view of the development of business, as the representative Lilletun put it in the previous case. Furthermore, I would like to show that there are a number of points negotiated per. today which has no immediate relevance to the integration of new candidate countries. Fish is the greatest example of it. I can't see that there's a fundamental difference between fish and education in this context. Where a majority does not wish to consider point 2 of the proposal in Document No. 8:75 on the GATS agreement as a concrete proposal from which it is possible to assess the consequences, I am inclined to believe that it would have been appropriate to have this assessed by professional bodies, such as. Ministry of Education, the University and Higher Education Council or, where appropriate, ANSA. I would like to briefly explain matters which obviously have not been fully addressed by the majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Education is not a public service in all countries. For example, the United States of America has a very large proportion of private universities. Such education is much more than a supplement to public services, such as: The Labour Party wants to see it in Norway. Thus, it is natural that education should fall within the scope of trade in services in the same way as any other trade, at least for the countries concerned. According to my information, it is unclear whether the GATS agreement will allow countries to discriminate against prices in the relationship between their own students and their students. It can therefore be relevant to agreements with the EU. This should be a matter of fundamental interest for Norway to clarify. A clarification may mean that Norway can gain access to more reasonable, perhaps even free, education in other countries. Concepts such as ‘more reasonable’ or ‘free’ would primarily address very strenuous institutional budgets, which are required by the Law on Higher Education to ensure extensive internationalisation, by offering students parts of the study abroad. This mandatory offer must be paid by the institutions today. When we are all aware, or should be aware, that we do not allocate enough funds to implement the quality reform in higher education, it is in itself worrying that not the government parties and the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left are actively taking action to ease the economic pressure on this sector through serious international negotiations. Furthermore, the GATS Agreement will regulate whether universities in other countries should have access to the establishment of branches in Norway. Does the majority wish for an extensive establishment of branches of private universities and research institutions abroad? The party considers this to be a good thing, as it forces the necessary quality assessments based on a new situation for the institutions, open and global competition. I would like to take up with this the proposals of the Advance Party, as set out in Document No. 8:75.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e570	The representative of Ursula Evje has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e573	It may be a bit random to each one – in the previous case or in this case. First of all, what is very special about this document, which is about the EEA/EU and not about GATS/WTO. I believe that the easiest and clearest reason why one will not go into the proposal put on the table is that one now does not need more requirements from Norway in order to complete the EEA negotiations. The narrator for the matter went into it. It's not a renegotiation of the EEA Agreement we're in, it's a adaptation to the enlarged EU. With regard to the GATS and the WTO system, the need for openness was stressed in the previous debate. One might say that this proposal is an example of the fact that openness can often take place separately. The proposer is also not fully aware of the situation, and it may be the same on the other side. There can thus be quite a lot of vision and different theories that emerge when questions arise about the GATS and the WTO. Of course, that's unfortunate. I believe it is important that governments and other contributors to building expertise and knowledge on WTO and GATS issues, so that more people can engage in the debate in a qualified way. This is something other than bringing individual cases before the Stortningen for discussion in order to give leadership, so to speak, to make demands in the negotiations. I would like to ask for greater focus to be placed on the WTO and trade issues in research institutions and other organisations around, because there is a striking difference in the ability to assess the performances, performances and trends of other international organisations in relation to what is seen in the WTO. I stress that this is something other than bringing individual cases before the Storing on WTO negotiations and on the GATS negotiations. This would make the debate much more fruitful, and it would also be possible in this way to avoid some of the sometimes somewhat fictitious discussions that could take place around the impact and content of WTO and GATS legislation. When it comes to the requirements that will be imposed by Norway, we will certainly disagree with some of the individual requirements. I can even think that there might be something that the government might not be entirely in itself. But this is a part of a negotiating arrangement, not an ultimatum, but a requirement in the context of negotiations, to which it must respond and on which it is to be negotiated. This is the main reason why the Labour Party has joined the framework of negotiations as presented by the Government of the Grand Duchy, without going into the individual areas. A detailed discussion in individual areas will, of course, show that there are different views between the parties here on how different sectors should be organised, but this should not lead to the Storting entering into a detailed management of individual requirements in individual areas. This is – unfortunately – what one has organized, when one has chosen to have a system in which a government is authorised to negotiate. And so it must be. But the starting point is that it's not ultimatum, it's negotiation. And the many negotiation recordings make this such a complicated process that it would be quite counterproductive to run that kind of negotiation process through all-meeting arrangements in Stortinget. It doesn't mean that it's wrong and inappropriate to record claims from organisations or from self-interest, but it's this to go over the threshold from making demands and what should be involved, to telling you what should be the negotiating position on the individual areas of the Government. In the next case, which relates to agricultural negotiations, there is even more of a concrete approach, and there is an additional point in how far one should go to instruct on a single area, and how much space the Government and the government negotiators should have in relation to seeing the totality of the negotiations going in order to achieve the best possible result.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e588	I just get to say it as it is, that I'm mildly surprised when I hear Ursula Evje, because when it comes to the EEA negotiations, which might be the point of leaping here, there's a process that's been going on for a long time, where the Storting has been consulted quite carefully. We have to make certain choices at certain times, and the impression is that what has been seen as important questions here has been, not least, the financial contribution to the development of the new candidate countries. It'll be a main question. Another main question is fish. I have seen that the Progress Party has previously thought that this is a very important question, and I believe that they still believe that, no matter what Ursula Evje may think about it. These have been the two important issues in the negotiations that we are conducting, within the framework of the fact that it is the enlargement of the EEA area that is the very point of the negotiations. They are very difficult, I have explained this earlier. We are now fully involved in the final question of these negotiations, and I think it would be a bit complicated now to bring in new questions at this stage. As far as the WTO is concerned, I understand that it is, in many ways, the issue of what is now being offered. I just want to remind you that higher education is also part of it. The question is whether there is anything other than what you have put in, which the Progress Party wants to be in. I think Ursula Evje can take it easy on that, namely that we have such questions inside. That is what has created repeated debates, among other things. The representative Light Hill, who sees it from a different point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e597	Very short to the State Council on Education/Fish Priority, where I was obviously assigned to deprioritizing the fish on behalf of the Advance Party. But what I did was probably almost equalizing fish and education. For fish is a commodity we've lived on for generations, education is what we'll live on in the future. Then it kind of gets a little wrong with the rhetoric. Then to the representative of the Workers' Party. The party of progress has not made any demands. We have asked the Government to work towards the integration of higher education. We experience it so that this is a field that you've deliberately put a little bit aside pending other things. As the rapporteur said, we have a public education programme and do not thereby enter into that part of the agreement. It'll be a little bit of a mistake. We have a public education, but we also have a private education. Other countries have exactly the same structure as us, but have significantly more private education. When we then know that we can get branches into Norway, when we know that our universities need to buy places out, and when we know that the quality reform for 2003 was underfunded by 140 million. kr, this is going to be very special.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e604	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2470]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e624	The current WTO negotiations can have a very significant impact on Norwegian agriculture. If the outcome of the negotiations were to remain close to the proposal of the negotiator Harbinson, Norwegian agriculture as we know it will disappear. Why is it so serious? This is serious because Norway will largely lose its ability to produce high-quality, safe food, as we do in Norway. Already today we import 50 pst. of our calorie intake. If Norwegian agriculture disappears more or less, we also lose the backbone of very many rural communities. That most of the Norwegians wanted us to have living settlements, will get a serious shot for the bow. We have a great cultural landscape in Norway, of which many are proud, and which includes, among other things: is essential for the tourism industry. Norwegian farmers have a large share of the credit for our varied cultural landscape. Reclaimed soils and fallaway houses on the farms will destroy the cultural landscape. Norwegian agriculture is about food production, but it's also about how our country is going to look. Do we want a prosperous land and a living village? Do we want the smell of freshly mowed grass and grazing animals in meadows? Do we want to enjoy Hedmark's flatlands a late summer day and look out over waving yellow cornfields? Many of us want it, but it doesn't get off. Many Norwegian farmers also make a great effort to preserve our building heritage. Historically valuable private-owned farm buildings depend on continued agricultural activity and on living areas. Norwegian consumers place high demands on food quality. These requirements will become increasingly strong in a buy-in Norwegian society. Norwegian consumers require food to be safe, that it be produced environmentally friendly and that animals be handled in accordance with ethical standards. Norwegian agriculture complies with these requirements. It's sad if we were to end up with an international agreement that would deprive Norwegian farmers of the ability to produce quality for the Norwegian people. The food industry in Norway is dependent on Norwegian raw material production. The raw material for Norwegian food processing companies cannot be imported and processed in Norway at our high cost level. Today, the food industry employs approx. 35,000 people. Very many of these will lose their jobs if Norwegian farmers no longer produce raw materials. A poor WTO agreement will lead to the loss of tens of thousands of jobs, seafaring in agriculture, but also in the food and tourism industries. At a time of increasing unemployment in Norway, this is less of all we need. Many claim that Norwegian agriculture is too expensive. We spend 11 billion kroner on Norwegian agriculture, and I think it's worth every penny. We must eventually get there that we also say that safe food has a value, that environmentally good production and ethical animal husbandry have a value, and that it has a high price to let Norwegian farmers weather and the cultural landscape decay. The proposal now on the WTO table is very problematic for far more countries than Norway. In countries with high costs and difficult climate and topography, problems will arise in maintaining their own food production. The proposal does not take into account countries with a low degree of maritime supply and already heavily dependent on imports. Norway has, as mentioned, a degree of maritime supply of about 50 pst. The rest of the food is imported free of duty or at low rates of duty. Countries such as Japan and South Korea have an even lower degree of maritime supply, only 30–40 pst., and it is also worth noting that the vast majority of the world’s poorest countries are importers of food. Existing WTO proposals serve unilaterally the large agricultural exporting countries with industrial production. Losses are small-scale producer countries that produce environmentally friendly. The WTO proposal is not a handshake to the world's poorest, as someone wants to make it. Food is not a traditional commodity. Food, on the other hand, is a human right, and every country has a responsibility to feed its own people. This is not something that Norwegian farmers have found; it is set out in the final documents of the World Food Summit. Dependence on the world food market is a problem in a solidarity perspective as long as Norwegian pigs and Norwegian farmed salmon have more purchasing power than kids in Bangladesh. As long as countries have as far as possible to feed their own populations, trade is more than problematic. It is worth noting that no country has come out of poverty with a one-sided focus on food exports. Countries specializing in the export of food will also specialize in poverty, and we cannot do that. There is thus much at stake in the WTO negotiations – for Norway, but also for a number of other countries. And that's probably the background for this interpellation. The WTO Agreement will give decisive leadership to Norwegian agricultural policy and Norwegian consumer policy. We can end up with an agreement that is far from the policy adopted in the Stortinget. If this is the case, we need a debate. The centre party has noticed that the Minister of Agriculture is genuinely concerned, and he has a great commitment to the matter. We are pleased, sail if we also record that he has a considerable joy over cheaper groceries when he briefs the press. It is also the case that strong forces in Norwegian policy want the developments we are now seeing in the WTO, and welcome developments in this direction. This also applies to the Minister of Agriculture’s government partner Right, as stated in his programme for the current ageing period: ‘Agriculture policy must be designed to reduce total support for agriculture. In order to ensure low food prices for consumers, the Right considers that import protection and market regulation should be stepped down.» We can therefore say that the WTO negotiations will be involved in fulfilling the Right-wing Majority Election Programme. When it is then the Foreign Minister from the Right who has the overall responsibility for the WTO negotiations, we must be able to allow ourselves to ask if we have reason to be concerned. I would nevertheless stress that we are satisfied with the work of the Government so far. We understand that the agency, which negotiates on our behalf, is doing a good job. But our concern is about what concessions you will give from the Norwegian side when the negotiations are set in motion. The ongoing negotiations are very demanding. If Norway is to be able to move positions, extensive work must be done in relation to alliance construction. Very many countries agree that multi-functional agriculture needs to be taken care of, but the counter-resistances are strong. If you want to make changes, you have to put the full pressure behind it. Then there is no room for gnawing, and one must dry to some countries to travel even unpopular issues. Many believe that Harbinson's proposal is not a basis for negotiation. What does Norway really think about it? Is there a pressing question that countries with a low degree of maritime supply need specific arrangements? Is the issue of distinguishing between domestic output and export production on the one hand and that of domestic output on the other? Some believe that we should put our trust in the EU in the negotiations. It's not wise, neither in this context. The EU's proposals will also have a very significant impact on Norwegian agriculture, with a halving of aid. I am therefore amazed that central workers’ party representatives believe that we should put ourselves in the positions of the European Union. The reports coming from the negotiations suggest that the situation is very firm, but there is no evidence that the negotiations are going Norway’s way. Therefore, it is essential that we put our weight into the work ahead, and that we negotiate with great boldness. My question therefore becomes the Minister for Foreign Affairs: What action does the Government take internationally to safeguard agriculture and thus maintain the objectives set by the Stortinget for Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e661	Norway’s trade relations with other countries are an important part of the basis for our prosperity. Therefore, the value of the multilateral trading system, which ensures open and predictable world trade with equal rules for all, cannot be underestimated. The WTO is a pillar of this system, and the Government attaches great importance to Norway contributing to a successful outcome in the current round of negotiations. In a difficult time for the global economy, it would be very unfortunate if the WTO round were to fail or to delay strongly. Norway has offensive negotiating interests in important areas such as market access for industrial products, including fish, and many service sectors, primarily shipping services, energy and telecommunications. We are also the drivers of improvements in the anti-dumping legislation. At the same time, we have important agricultural interests to attend to. Gradually, this will require more balance between the various areas of negotiation. Negotiations take place after the so-called'single signing', which implies that the whole outcome of the negotiations must be accepted as a package and that nothing is finally resolved before all is agreed. Agricultural negotiations are currently under way in Geneva. It seems unlikely that there will be any solution to the so-called negotiating modalities, i.e. the number-fixing of reduction obligations, by the deadline of 31 March. This could infect the progress of the other areas of negotiation in the period leading up to the next Cancun Ministerial Conference in Mexico in September this year. Agriculture is perhaps the most difficult area to negotiate in this round. Negotiations are a continuation of the reform initiated during the Uruguay Round. The mandate of the Doha Ministerial Conference in 2001 states, without pre-empting the outcome of the negotiations, that ‘with a view to significant improvements in market access, substantial reductions in trade distorting internal support and reductions with a view to phasing out all forms of export subsidies’. The Doha Declaration also states that the special treatment of developing countries should be an integral part of the negotiations and that non-commercial aspects should be taken into account. Many countries have offensive interests and demand extensive liberalisation of the agricultural sector. For example, the United States proposes that no customs duties should exceed 25 p.m. and that customs duties should be abolished in the long term. Furthermore, the United States considers that trade distorting aid should not exceed 10 pst. of the value of production and of the granting of export subsidies. The proposals of the so-called Cairns Group, with 14 developing and three industrialized countries, are similar to the proposals of the United States, but go further in some areas. In particular, all developing countries require large reductions in agricultural transfers and the removal of export aid. For developing countries, the picture is more complex in terms of market access. Many require significantly better access to markets in developed countries for their export products. There are also many developing countries who also want them to benefit from full or partial exemption from customs reductions. A large group of developing countries are committed to maintaining different preferential arrangements providing for tariff reductions or exemptions in their countries and other developing countries through different preferential arrangements. Norway, Japan, the EU, Switzerland and Korea, with others, believe that the legislation should allow for the maintenance of an agricultural holding which ensures the non-commercial conditions of agriculture, such as: rural, food safety and the environment. This will require less extensive cuts in customs duties and opportunities for continued support for agriculture. Norway emphasises that there is still a need for limited tariff reductions for key products. The figures proposed by Norway are average tariff reductions of 36 p.p., but with a minimum reduction per year. 10 pst toll line. to just screen the key products. With regard to the most distorting internal agricultural aid, we have proposed that aid for exports should be reduced by 60 pst, while aid for goods for the domestic market should be reduced by 20 pst. Our proposal for pure export aid is reductions of 60 pst. The draft numerical commitments by the negotiator, to which Mr Haga refers, are based on the Member States’ input and must be seen as an attempt to achieve possible compromises between the very wide-ranging negotiating positions of the members. The President proposes a cut in customs duties of at least 45 pst. for central Norwegian agricultural products. Furthermore, it is proposed that industrialised countries reduce trade distorting agricultural aid by between 50 pst. and 60 pst., and phase out its export subsidies in nine years. The draft has largely taken account of developing countries’ demands, including: as regards reductions in the very highest rates of duty, tariff reductions for processed products, phase-out of export subsidies and reduction obligations for developing countries themselves. It is proposed that LDCs be exempted from reduction obligations. The draft is strongly criticised by most teams. The United States, as well as the vast majority of the 17 agricultural exporting countries in the Cairns Group, consider the draft to be too ambitious. Some of the Cairns countries are committed to maintaining the protection of sensitive sectors in their own agriculture. Countries that emphasise the non-commercial functions of agriculture, including Norway, have pointed out that if the proposal were adopted, it would be very difficult to continue extensive agricultural production. EU countries outside the Cairns Group have reacted differently to the proposal. China wants more liberalisation, primarily in the industrialized countries, while India and many African countries want developing countries to have the opportunity to protect their domestic markets by maintaining some customs duties. Others have pointed out that the proposal will cause the developing countries’ own tariff preferences to be confused and that the proposed transitional arrangements are not sufficient. Least developed countries regard the draft as a very good starting point for further negotiations. These positions have been repeated in the negotiations this week. On the Norwegian side, it has been pointed out that, in order for the draft to form the basis for further negotiations, substantial changes are necessary. However, real negotiations have not begun. So far, the parties have repeatedly known positions. It is therefore unlikely, as I said, that agreement will be reached by 31 March. As a result, this difficult issue is likely to be on the agenda of Ministers at the next Ministerial Conference in September. What does Norway do in this situation? For us, it is important to stress that reforms in the agricultural sector must not deprive us of the possibility of maintaining the agricultural production that is necessary to ensure, inter alia, agricultural production. non-commercial considerations relating to the environment, food security and districts. It is a fundamental objective of the Norwegian side that WTO legislation still has to give us a space for action in order to pursue a national agricultural policy. Norway has focused on having a separate profile in the negotiations. Our proposal on market access and internal support is therefore more restrictive than the one that the EU has put forward, while the reduction in export aid goes beyond the EU. We believe that this has been important to help create a counter-pressure against the positions that lie far from Norway’s point of view. Norway has also started in 1998 throughout the period from the negotiations on the mandate for a new WTO round, actively driven alliance building to bring together support for our views, and we will continue to do so. Our main partners are the EU, Japan, Switzerland, Korea and Mauritius in the ‘Friends of Multifunctionality’ group. The name refers to the multifunctional, or multilateral, role of agriculture. We've had joint input into the negotiations to make it clear that agriculture has different functions than producing food. Agriculture also provides collective goods such as district housing, cultural landscapes and food security. The aim has been to create a legislative area of action that will enable such considerations to continue to be taken into account. Furthermore, we are actively working to bring together as much support as possible for the customs reduction method used during the Uruguay Round, which allows us to make only limited tariff reductions for key products. So far, 75 of the 145 members of the WTO have signaled that they want a Uruguay Round formula. This must be said to be a strong signal to the other negotiating partners. However, if such a method of calculation were to be used, it would be essential that we also win with our view on the size of the minimum reductions. It is still a long way to go from the President's proposal on minimum reductions of 45 pst. for our key products for our proposal of 10 pst. Norway also cooperates with other countries which have proposed similar reductions in the three areas of negotiation to Norway. It concerns the other EFTA countries, as well as Bulgaria, South Korea, Israel and Mauritius. Through cooperation with the EU, Japan and the other countries in the ‘Friends of Multifunctionality’ as well as the other alliance-building initiatives, we seek to gain an understanding of the negotiations for our situation and thus contribute to the best possible end result with Norwegian eyes. For Norway and a number of other countries, it will be difficult to base the President’s existing draft on further negotiations without major changes. We are therefore in an ongoing dialogue with like-minded countries to assess how best to deal with this situation. What will determine Norway's position will be how best to ensure Norwegian negotiating objectives. Finally, I would like to stress that the Government will continue to work with similar countries in a targeted way, with a view to bringing together support for Norwegian positions in agricultural negotiations. However, I cannot fail to say that our positions are under very strong pressure in the negotiations. We must therefore be prepared for the final result to have a significant impact on Norwegian agricultural policy in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e701	Let me first say that when two of the members of the Government participate in an interpellation debate like this, which is a little untraditional, it is to stress the importance of the work of the WTO for the Government, and also to stress that of course there is a unified government and three parties that stand completely united in this very offensive position for Norway in the WTO negotiations. In February, Stuart Harbinson, Head of the World Trade Organisation's agricultural negotiations, presented his proposal for a negotiated solution. There is little doubt that this proposal, if adopted, would have very dramatic consequences for Norwegian agriculture. Therefore, at the February negotiating meeting, Norway, like a number of like-minded countries, including Switzerland, Japan and the EU, underlined that fundamental changes to this proposal would be necessary in order for real negotiations to start on the basis of this proposal. Last week Harbinson put forward a slightly revised proposal, and this week the WTO member country is reunited. Unfortunately, there are only a few small and relatively small changes to this revised proposal, and the reactions from Norway, as well as from our allies, are therefore the same as in February. The parties are therefore as distant from each other as in the past, and some decisive breakthroughs in the negotiations do not appear to be within reach. In this situation, I would like to make some additional comments on the possible impact on Norwegian agriculture of the Harbinson proposal. As I assess the situation, average tariff reductions of 60 pst., as proposed for most products of importance for Norwegian agriculture, will simply not be to live with for most uses in this country. Norwegian agriculture operates under very difficult operating conditions. Difficult climatic and topographical conditions, small uses and a generally high cost level in our country make it impossible to compete with imported cheap goods. It should also be unnecessary to say that a large-scale reduction in import protection will lead to reinforced national requirements for significant increases in transfers from the State budget. Furthermore, an increase in import quotas has been proposed to ensure imports at low or no customs duty for a volume equal to 10 pst. of domestic consumption. Depending on the calculation method, this could represent a multiple of the import quotas in relation to the current level. Increased imports of this magnitude are likely to lead to a corresponding reduction in national production. Since Norwegian agriculture is in fact dependent on a few product groups, it is not realistic to expect that, as a result of these increases in import quotas, reductions in national production can be compensated by, for example, the transition to other goods and, where appropriate, exports, such as other countries with a wider range of goods and a more competitive agriculture have the possibility. The proposal for internal support, if adopted, would force a major shift in our budgetary support, which could have a major impact on the possibilities of ensuring viable production. The proposed reduction in yellow aid, i.e. price support, at 60 pst. will force a similar winding-up of the target price system for many important goods, with a high risk of major price fluctuations. Halving area and animal aid, so-called blue aid, will require a similar transition to production-independent instruments, so-called green schemes in the WTO jargon. No ceiling on green schemes has been proposed. While such forms of support have their mishap within reasonable limits, it is very important to be aware that, since WTO legislation requires that such support be received without public demand for production, a large-scale transition to such forms of support will significantly limit our ability to ensure a living and active agriculture, which is absolutely necessary to meet the different societal needs underlying our agricultural policy, such as rural employment, food preparedness and living cultural landscapes. With very low production incomes, the farmer is likely to end production in the long term, as the green transfers are received in any case. The economy will be completely independent of good agronomy – in fact, the farmer doesn't even have to get out of the door. I will not underestimate the fact that dramatic cuts in blue and yellow support would become a reality, of course we have to do what is possible to make the best use of the green arrangements. However, I would like to stress that at best these are the next best solutions that we can come back to if necessary. Finally, it is proposed that export subsidies be phased out. Although I understand that much is being said for such forms of aid to be banned in the longer term, I would like to stress that this proposal will particularly affect the Norwegian food industry and an already heavily pressed milk sector, and come to the top of impossible demands for the reduction of import protection and large cuts in the main forms of internal support. The situation is therefore serious, and it is understandable that the minds of all those who are happy and proud of our agriculture are set in motion. And they're many, we're going to believe the polls and all the statements of support that agriculture has received in the last few days. In this situation, I think there are more ditches we should be careful to fall into. Some people in the home environment seem to think that Harbinson's play is unacceptable, but it's also so unrealistic to those degrees that we don't have to worry about it in particular. Taking Harbinson seriously creates only unnecessary concerns in Building Norway, at the top of all the pessimism that predominates, it is claimed by some. I understand and understand these objections. It is important to have optimism and faith in the future. However, it is very risky to pretend that Harbinson’s draft does not exist or that it does not represent a real threat. Strong forces are fighting for full liberalisation of trade in agricultural products. It is only through determined and active efforts that we can prevent this threat from becoming reality. It is quite correct that the final outcome of the Uruguay Round on agriculture was much better than what was originally proposed by former Director-General Arthur Dunkel in 1992. But without a popular mobilisation and a hectic diplomacy from the Norwegian side, in cooperation with like-minded countries, there is reason to believe that the result would be much worse. Others seem to have unrealistic expectations about what we can achieve in these negotiations. Norwegian agriculture will undoubtedly have to undergo major changes in the years to come, in order to meet the challenges we face, and, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, we have committed ourselves to negotiating reductions in customs duties and certain forms of budgetary support. Depending on the outcome, a final negotiated solution could have a significant impact on Norwegian agriculture. As I have stressed on previous occasions, in such a situation we must take the bull by the horns and develop an offensive strategy to ensure as far as possible that our total production is maintained, prevent set-aside and restocking, and ensure that the use of normal agricultural production does not become wasteland, but has new functions to meet our objectives of viable rural communities. It is important to be aware that the WTO as an organisation is of great importance to Norway. The organisation manages a multilateral regulatory framework that provides the basis for predictable framework conditions for both agriculture and, in particular, other industries of major importance for the Norwegian economy. But stressing the importance of existing legislation does not, of course, mean not fighting for national interests in a negotiating situation, as all other countries do. A new agricultural agreement must be for everyone to live with. We cannot accept such a large cut in support and protection that we are, in effect, deprived of the possibility of maintaining sustainable agriculture in our country. Therefore, a consensus in the WTO cannot be based on unrealistic demands of a relatively limited group of competitive exporters, but must be based mainly on the extent to which the losing party is actually willing to extend. I can assure the representative Haga that it is working hard from the Norwegian side to ensure a final result that is as consistent as possible with our interests. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed, alliances with like-minded countries are systematically being built, and we are particularly pleased that we have succeeded in bringing together 75 countries behind the demand for customs reductions in the same way as in the Uruguay Round. A similar initiative to support the opposite view would not, in much the same number of countries. For Norway and a number of other countries, it will be very difficult to base Harbinson’s draft on further negotiations. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs has stressed, we are therefore in an ongoing dialogue with like-minded countries to assess how we can best deal with this situation, while continuing the process in Geneva in the best possible way until the next ministerial meeting in Mexico in September.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e736	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Agriculture for the answers. I am particularly pleased to hear the seriousness of the situation that the Minister of Agriculture is putting into the situation we are in – because it is very serious. Periodically, I'm talking to some of them that this is going to be mostly about, and there are actually a lot of people saying just what the Minister of Agriculture was talking about, that this is so dramatic that it can't be true, we can't take it seriously. With this debate, I want to make it clear how serious the situation is. And I'm going to raise the debate now so that we in Stortinget will be able to help those who are now sitting and negotiating can straighten their backs and know that they have broad support behind them. We received a relatively technical review from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It would have been interesting to hear how he, who is not only Minister for Foreign Affairs, but also the Right-leader, assesses the consequences of the conversion of Norwegian agriculture that we can now face. It would be interesting to hear – I don't know which of the state councils will respond to this afterwards. Furthermore, it would be interesting to get a little bit more depth on a couple of points. I believe that Norway has done a good job internationally in establishing multi-functionality as a concept, and Norway has been good in the processes in which we have been involved in developing that concept. Now it's important, I think, that we move on in a couple of key areas. I think it is crucial that we do something to put in place a distinction between domestic market production and export production, which we have been concerned about from the Norwegian side. My question is about realism in getting it done. So what does the process look like – is it possible to get that kind of thinking in place? My second question is whether it is possible to accept specific arrangements for those countries with a low degree of maritime supply, which are thus in a completely different situation from those with a high degree of maritime supply. Those were the most concrete questions. If you can answer that there is hope in getting an understanding of these two issues, we will be an important step forward on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e753	It is not surprising in itself, but it is reassuring, that the newly elected leader of the Centre Party is also talking to some of those most affected by the agricultural negotiations. That's the way it has to be. Fortunately, there are also some of us who are doing so, and we feel that we have very good support for the line that the Government is leading to take care of Norwegian agricultural interests through these very complicated negotiations. I'm going to try to reflect on the two issues that the interpellant is going through here, namely the attempt to distinguish between production for a domestic market and export. In the Norwegian proposal, we have tried to base such a distinction, and we have worked to gain an understanding of it. It has been a pleasure for Norway to be able to record that a group of countries have joined the Norwegian position. In particular, the February negotiating meeting showed the importance of countries such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. Japan and South Korea chose to follow much of the Norwegian position here, although the formal position of Japan in terms of customs reductions is equivalent to the EU position. Being able to make a qualified guess about how far we can get through to this at such an early stage in the negotiations, I think, is impossible, except to say that we have experienced in conversations with individual countries within the EU that there is a great deal of understanding among them for such a distinction. As you know, such a distinction is not reflected in the EU's proposals in these negotiations. Regarding the reflection on the degree of self-sufficiency, I would like to say that I think there is a somewhat more complicated way to think about it, and that illustrates a little bit the difficult Norwegian position. I think the interpellant also expressed here that food is not a traditional commodity. However, it is not easy to say when a traveler travels around the Norwegian outskirts and builds along the coast – Røst and many other places – which, until those degrees, have based their entire community on the fact that food is a commodity. It is clear that, in such a context, the Norwegian self-sufficiency picture will also be completely different if Norwegian fisheries production was withdrawn and the huge exports we have, for example. of protein. In that case, we have to go back to what is the Norwegian position, namely to fight for different physical, climatic and biological conditions for agricultural production in the world. That agriculture is very much more than just trade, I agree. It is in many ways the soul of the nation when we say that housing, the environment and the cultural landscape, for which we have been impressed in the negotiations, must be at the root. The fact that we rely on such commercial conditions in order to maintain agriculture also reflects that countries have a low level of self-sufficiency. In this way, too, this will indirectly take account of such considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e766	As the interpellant points out, this is an important issue for Norwegian agriculture. But it's not just agriculture, it's more about what our towns will look like in the future, and who wants to live there. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we maintain our current residence as far as possible. In our program, it says: ‘In parts of the country, agriculture, forestry and fishing are essential for the work, housing, economic development and management of the cultural landscape. The Labour Party will therefore provide the basis for a viable and sustainable agriculture throughout the country.’ Not least, we have stressed in our programme that an equivalent welfare offer is a prerequisite for settlement throughout the country. Then people have to work, and people have to live in the districts. If farmers do not have a nutritional basis for living in the districts, we must recognize that there is probably no one else who will live there either. I think most of the parties have somewhat similar formulations in their party programmes, perhaps with the exception of the Progress Party. It is therefore a common concern that we now have a negotiated outcome which will, as far as possible, achieve a common objective for agriculture and rural areas. It was the government of Harlem Brundtland and Minister of Agriculture Gunhild Island that led the negotiations with the WTO in the 1990s. At that time, there was constructive cooperation with the Norwegian Bond team, and a result that was to live with for Norwegian agriculture was achieved at the time. The Workers' Party therefore considers it very important that the Government work to ensure good solutions. It is then a prerequisite that they stand on their proposal, and the Workers' Party is behind it. I hope that in their work they keep in close contact with agricultural organisations, as our government did. Not least the government must have faith that one will succeed. When I say that, it is because we in the Workers' Party believe that the Government on the issue of differentiated employer fees, which is of course a completely different aspect of international negotiations, has been too little to ensure an important regional policy instrument. We therefore hope that the Government will put pressure on its negotiating proposal to achieve the best possible result in these negotiations. The working party is usually aware that there will be tough rounds. Nor could we push under the carpet the fact that a freer trade in food was high on the international agenda when our government negotiated in the 1990s. Suffering when there were also many who predicted that there would be bad times was a result with which Norwegian agriculture and districts could live. The Foreign Affairs Committee shall act unanimously in its position on Document No. 8:48, which was discussed earlier today, expressed that a believer in the foreign minister should make a clear statement about the WTO negotiations during the spring session. In what form may not be clarified, but a matter of such importance to agriculture, to the food industry and to the districts, it is important that we have a sustained focus around.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e786	I am very pleased with the response of the Councils, and I am very pleased with the efforts made by the Government in the negotiations with the WTO. There is a relevant issue that the interpellant raises when she points out how dependent we are on the interaction between agriculture, tourism and the food industry to maintain living areas. The draft of the WTO administration is unrealistic, but it shows with all possible clarity what kind of challenges we face. In these negotiations, Norway has taken the most realistic line, and in several of our positions, we have the same starting point as EU countries. I'm sure the biggest blow will be about customs protection. But it is also important that in these negotiations we have clear and unambiguous rules on the definitions of the different boxes that are being discussed. And it is important that we have an agreement that gives developing countries opportunities for growth and development. For the right, it is important that we continue to have a Norwegian agriculture, a robust Norwegian agriculture. That means that we have to be concerned about maintaining a customs protection system that provides a real competition between Norwegian and imported goods. We have a demanding climate, and we have a demanding topography. That means that we must also have transfers over the budgets in the future. But that doesn't mean we have to have a static relationship with the development of agriculture. Few industries have experienced such an increase in efficiency as agriculture. Norwegian agriculture produces as much food today as 50 years ago, but only with one seventh of the labour input. Some put an absolute similarity between customs protection and food security. I think that's a little bit of a misleading argument. Food safety is ensured by national legislation and international agreements and effective supervision is important. In this way, I am pleased that we are in the process of establishing a coherent food monitoring system, and that we are simplifying and improving the law. Finally, I would like to underline how dependent we, as a small nation, are on trading with other countries. Our entire well-being is linked to the fact that we have market access for our industrial products, our service products and our fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e805	The centre party is leading to exaggeration of the WTO hazard. When one constantly draws forward Stuart Harbinson's WTO proposal, which is very extreme, it reminds us of fear propaganda, probably far from the world of reality. It is more realistic that the final outcome of WTO negotiations will be close to the EU's input, where only a minority of Norwegian agricultural products will be exposed to competition, and no one has mentioned it today. The centre party should also be concerned about how to pursue a realistic agricultural policy, and thus transform it into Norway. Starting now, it will be possible to meet this little bit of competition, which may result from the WTO negotiations, and develop a robust agriculture that can survive further. Several today have used the term ‘robust agriculture’, but we are, after all, losing 2,000 to 3000 farmers every year despite all transfers. And we don't have robust agriculture today. It's a pleasure that at least the food industry, which the interpellant also had in mind, has taken the world of reality inwards. It calls for an agricultural policy that can reform agriculture so that the overall objective can become something more than a rural policy. The industry says that it is no longer possible to live with the increased gap in price differences between Norwegian and foreign groceries. That's why we have to get away from static reasoning that the farmers are going to keep acting the way they've always done. This means that we must introduce free competition at all stages of the food value chain, including the agricultural co-operation industry. It must meet with competition within, while we still have a customs-based external protection, which we all know will fall sooner or later. Unfortunately, this is not the case today. Instead of subjecting agriculture to competition law, competition is restricted through market regulation at the marketing stages, regulatory export and price and market cooperation. This means that Norwegian consumers pay far more for Norwegian goods under our difficult climatic and topographical conditions than is absolutely necessary – unfortunately. We need to improve the survival of drifting farmers by giving them leeway for their own development, among other things. by removing some production restrictions, removing concessional limits in the acquisition-holding law, abolishing restrictions on the placing on the market of agricultural property and much more. And we have to wind up the system of an agricultural agreement that is special to Norway, which no other country has. Here, thousands of public servants raise wages to keep track of all payments, applications and checks, and this is very expensive. We should take all this into account in this spring's agricultural settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e820	There are two positions that you can see in those who want the most free trade in food. One is the representative of Hedstrøm, who does almost anything to get cheaper bottles, and then there is a position that wants to liberalise for solidarity with the developing world. I believe that the notion that free trade in food should be a form of solidarity project is not correct. It is Danish bacon and not Botswana beef that will fill Norwegian freezers if the current proposal is put into practice. It is industrial agriculture from large, rich countries that will gain market shares in Norway and not developing countries. Of course, some developing countries may have increased capital income, but millions of small farmers in poor countries will be at risk of being competing with cheap products from this industrial farm. It must also be a cross of thought that this happens while we have a food situation in the world that leads to hundreds of millions of people starved. Food is particularly suitable as an unregulated commodity, as was well illustrated during the 1997-1998 Sudan hunger disaster, when it was discovered that large quantities of grain from Sudan were imported to feed Norwegian pigs. In an unregulated market, the goods go to where it is purchasing power, and Norwegian pigs unfortunately have more purchasing power than hungry people in Sudan. Another cross-section of thought in relation to food safety and environmental and health risks is the increase in emissions from transport, the risk of the spread of diseases and the threat to the environment of an increasingly intensive industrial agriculture. We believe that it should be sought not to have a place of production too far from the point of consumption and that it is therefore appropriate to maintain an import protection for agricultural products, both for Norway and for developing countries. Like the inter-pellant, we are also concerned that the Government will fight for the right to protect its own agriculture. We are also concerned about Right-wing program formulations, but I would also like to say that from SV's point of view, we see it as positive if we are offensive in Norway and are going in the rush to reduce the use of export subsidies. There are few things that better illustrate the dual morality of the international trading system as the fact that countries that are talking about free trade in most contexts are trying, at the longest, to uphold their own right to compete against local peasants by dumping their own overproduction. The provisional arrangements for agricultural negotiations are not good news, either for the Norwegian districts, Norwegian consumers or the world's poor. Norway’s position should be to seek to fight for the right to the widest possible local production, to distort industrial production and to abolish export subsidies as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e831	Agriculture is the most central and also the most difficult area of negotiation in the WTO, because it affects important national interests. The challenge will be to arrive at a result that will improve market access for countries with large exports of agricultural products, while at the same time ensuring that less competitive countries are able to continue agricultural production through support and customs protection. The proposal by the President of the WTO agricultural negotiations is a major deviation from the Norwegian position and could have a dramatic impact on current Norwegian agriculture if adopted. At the same time, these are elements that are at the heart of the poorest countries. The proposal takes a great deal of account of the demands of developing countries, because it is decided that this round of negotiations should focus on precisely this. This is therefore a situation that challenges our desire to contribute to the development of the poorest countries in the world, while preserving our Norwegian agriculture and our living communities. Norway, with its development policy, is promoting development in many of the poorest countries, but if we are to succeed in achieving the UN's Millennium Goals, our national policies must also be changed. I am convinced that farmers – like most of the others in Norway – are prepared to help the poorest countries, but it is a question of whether it is best done by raging today’s Norwegian agriculture, or whether the reasons can be combined. The Christian People's Party will work for the last time. We have an agriculture there is every reason to be proud of, and the Christian People's Party will fight to preserve this industry for food security, the workplaces, the contribution to a scattered settlement and a living cultural landscape. But, as the Minister for Agriculture has said, we must take the initiative to change something in order not to change everything. We must be so realistic that we can say that there could be major changes in agriculture. Agriculture will meet a tougher economy and tougher demands through international negotiations in the future. Then we must pursue a policy that meets this new era. The Christian People's Party wants a more efficient, structurally adapted agricultural policy along with the modernisation and renewal of each farm. We must also be aware that the developing countries are not a uniform group. They want better access to the markets of the countries, but have different views on whether this should be done through general tariff reductions or through customs preferences. It is a point that the very poorest countries actually serve to ensure that there are high rates of customs duty in other countries. Norway can then give preference to these countries by taking them at the expense of its competitors. It enables them to export their goods. In fact, many of the poorest countries will not be competitive in relation to other large producers of agricultural products. It is not that Norway automatically increases imports from the poorest countries only the rates of customs duty disappear. It is likely that more will be imported from the EU, the United States, Argentina and other countries. It is also necessary to ask who serves on exports from some of the poor countries, whether they are farmers themselves, or whether someone else takes advantage. It's also a cross of thought that it's just 0.5 pst. of a total agricultural product import to Norway of DKK 18 billion coming from the poorest developing countries. A whole 66 pst. come from the European Union. If we really feel serious about our desire to promote development for the poorest, our imports from these must increase where this is practicable, perhaps at the expense of the industrialized countries. The Christian People's Party believes in a better future, both for Norwegian agriculture and for the poorest countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e849	This debate shows that – with the exception of the Progress Party – there is broad support in Stortinget to invest in robust Norwegian agriculture. We know, however, that there are differences in view here, and we know very well that the differences in view will probably be put more to the fore when we get further into the negotiation process. That is to the extent that the test will come up on how much the words that have been said here today, to the seventh and last are worth. When Hedstrom talks about "frightening propaganda," and there's nothing to suggest that a final negotiation result will lie about where Harbinson has gone, it's to say that there are positions here on both sides of Harbinson. It is also said that in his second proposal he chose to make minimum adjustments, and it is said that he believes that the positions of the seventh and last should lie approximately in the thigh they are now lying down. So I think it's important that the Progress Party also joins the class if they're busy figuring out what's realistic. To the Minister of Agriculture, I just have to say that I am concerned that food is not a traditional commodity, because it is not. We're supposed to be dealing with food, but the point is that we're going to deal with food at the top of what means that countries are going to have a responsibility to feed their own people. It is the important principle that is crucial, also in relation to how to approach the negotiations that are currently taking place. I'm glad there's a lot of seriousness in the hall today. What we are now talking about is whether we are going to be able to maintain, internationally, a small-scale agriculture, an environmentally friendly agriculture, in the countries that you want it, if you want to have the opportunity. In Norway, this is about whether we are going to be able to produce safe, high-quality food, whether we're going to maintain living areas, whether we're going to take care of our cultural landscape, and whether we're going to keep jobs. There are many who are concerned about these issues, including those that have demonstrated in front of the Storting today. We are, as I said, so pleased with the work of the Government, but we're going to guarantee that we're going to follow closely. And, as I said, it's when things are put to the fore in the negotiation process, that we'll see if you're standing by the words that are expressed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e862	There are not so many things to sum up from the debate, except that it seems that the handling that the government has had of these questions has gained broad support in the Stortinget. I am very pleased with that. The second is that I just have to confirm what Aud Gaundal said, namely that I am aiming to give a broad WTO statement during this spring session, before the Ministerial Meeting in Cancun. That means that we will have all the issues in one presentation. Agriculture is one of many problems we have to deal with. Agriculture, as I mentioned, is probably one of the most difficult things we are facing, for the reasons I have mentioned, but I am therefore aiming to give a broad account of all the elements, including the elements relating to Norway's offensive interests. I would like to emphasise again what we were about in a previous debate today, namely that it is very important that this WTO round succeeds. It is simply about what this country will live on from in the future. We're dependent on having the joy of an open world trade, and all the aspects are inside this image. I do not need to make so many comments on the debate itself. I just want to say that I've observed two things. In the case of one, I don't know if the Light Hill will see it as a compliment – I don't think so – but it's meant to be. I perceived him so that he so far disagreed with some of the positions taken by some developing countries in the open world trade in food. I respect him for that view. It is absolutely possible to take that view, but when I stress it, it is because I think it is very important that we deal with issues relating to the WTO from the perspective we believe is a right policy in that area. I agree with the Lighthouse that you do not necessarily have to buy all countries' definition of their own problem as the real solution to the problem. When I mention it, it's because I hope it will also be remembered in other contexts. In the case of the other, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the more party leader comes into the picture, but I have to say that I noticed with great interest the following wording both from the SV and the Senterpartiet: Norwegian pigs have greater purchasing power than poor people in the developing world. It's a very interesting problem, and I'm burning out of a desire to know what the follow-up to that problem really is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e875	That is the examination of case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e886	We are going to vote on the matters that are listed on today's map. In Case No. 1 there is no votering theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e897	During the debate, Mr Bjørlo Lysbakken put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The Government asks the Government to publish the requirements promoted to the various countries to which Norway has submitted requests for liberalisation.2. As far as WTO legislation allows, the Government is asked to publish the requirements received by Norway in the first stages of the GATS negotiations.3. The majority asks the Government to report on Norway’s positions in the GATS negotiations starting after 31 March 2003.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e930	During the debate, Mr Evje presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The government is asking for higher education to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement as part of the free market to which Norway has access.2. The majority asks the Government to treat higher education as a saleable product. This shall be an important principle in the further GATS negotiations.’;» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e957	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-28.ana.ud757e968	There is no record.
