ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-06.ana.ud1019e26	The representative Kenneth Svendsen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Central Party Group on the sick leave of the representative, Inger S. Enger, from 6 May until further notice, from the representative, Lena Jensen, on welfare leave from 6 May until 8 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Uppland County: Hans Seierstad For Troms County: Ole-Anton Tegen3. Hans Seierstad and Ole-Anton Tegen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Inger S. Enger and Lena Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-06.ana.ud1019e64	Hans Seierstad and Ole-Anton Tegen are present and will take the seat. The representative of Morten Lund will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-06.ana.ud1019e69	I would like to suggest reducing the share of our fund placements abroad in order to reduce the risk of loss.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-06.ana.ud1019e74	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-06.ana.ud1019e88	The Presidency proposes some amendments to the Storting Rules of Procedure. Some of the amendments are only updates and adaptations to current realities. Other proposals made are real desire to seek to activate the Storting as a debate forum and also to make the debates interesting for those who operate on a daily basis outside this house. This is particularly true of the debate on the throne and of what is happening in the United Kingdom after the Minister of Finance has presented his proposal to the State budget, i.e. financial languages. First to the throne debate. Over the last ten years, we have seen a development in which the debate on the throne has not become a general political debate on the issues that the King is presenting in the throne, but has tended in many ways to be a pre-postal fixation against what comes next, in the debate on the state budget. The Presidency has wanted to turn the debate on current political issues into a debate. We therefore want to wind up the throne debate before the government budget is presented, but of course after the Great Government has opened up and the King in the throne has explained what will be the government's priorities in the coming year. We think this has been carried out in such a way that we start the debate on the throne with a longer intervention from the Prime Minister, where the Prime Minister can personally ask and profile the questions that the Government considers to be politically important, and then conduct a debate on the throne which, hopefully, will be able to go over one meeting day. We expect that we will then have to stay for a while beyond night. We've recorded that it's very difficult to get into the media what at least we from the Stortinges view as important political points. Of course, it has to do with the media's priorities. But it also has something to do with what the media think people are busy about. What the Biggest estimate is that it will be possible to provide information to the country's voters, its citizens, through direct transfers from this room. So we have channels to make sure you can hear all the big debates on the radio. We also now have the opportunity to communicate the debates so that people can take them directly into their PCs at different workplaces or in different homes. This is something that we will develop further, so that more and more of the interesting debates can be communicated directly to those who would like to see them. Then there's a point in itself that we also make the debates interesting. There is no doubt that some of the long debates tend to have their highlights, but also to have their downfalls. In particular, the first night of the debate over the night has tended to be of little interest, both among staging representatives and others. We therefore believe that it is an advantage to maintain continuity in the debates by conducting the debates in one day. At the same time, we want it to be possible for the parties to participate as much as possible in these debates. What we're aiming at now is to conduct the debate in one day instead of two. By reducing the repeat time instead of the cord changes from two minutes per. Line up to one minute per line. We'll be able to do it again – with as many speakers as before. Of course, we wouldn't have proposed this if the debates had become more tabloid or superficial by performing one minute's sequences, but the attempts we've made here with one minute's lines have been very successful. The debates have become more intense, they have become more concrete, and they have become more intense. I think that would be an advantage for the Stortinget if the general, large-scale debates too were to be affected. We therefore propose as a permanent arrangement that in the line changes there should be one minute to the question and one minute to the answer. In that way, I think we should be able to make the big debates interesting and interesting. We get to hope that when the media gets a competitor through the direct communication, they may also be more willing to share some of the issues that are the debate. That's exactly what the big room is going to be, a hall where debates are going on, and where, as a sum of the debates, voting and provisions are going to be made that matter to the people most. The next thing I want to mention in particular is what happens after the Minister of Finance has presented the State budget, the so-called financial speech. In that case, it has been a practice to empty the hall immediately after the financial statements have been completed, and then all the activities are carried out with comments outside the hiking hall, where the press interviews the prime minister, the fiscal policy spokespersons and the parliamentary leaders. We in the Presidency want this first reaction to the state budget to take place here inside the Chamber. We will therefore implement this year a system that opens up direct comments after the Minister of Finance has finished the financial speech, so that the first immediate reaction comes here in the Chamber. Then it would be difficult for the fiscal and parliamentary speakers to have a full overview of what the financial situation actually contains. But it won't be more difficult to put the arguments here in the hall than to bring them to the press out in the hiking hall. We therefore believe, from the presidency, that this could be a way of doing the big room itself and what's happening here, more interesting than the first response to the budget. Then the press has to do its job afterwards by going into the depths and discussions between the different political fractions here in the Storting, as is usual. The Presidency has proposed that in order to deal with this adaptation with the census first and then the financial speech, we must have at least five days from the opening of the Stortingen budget to the presentation of the budget. Today, it's supposed to be three days. We have seen that in special years – e.g. This year, when we get the weekend in between, so that the number of thrones stays on Monday and the financial speech will be on Tuesday – it can be a bit hectic. We may not have finished the meeting here before at one-two o'clock at night, and then the financial speech will start at one o'clock. 10th@item: inlistbox It can be hectic for government councils, but also for parliamentary leaders and fiscal spokesmen. We have therefore proposed in the proposal distributed at the representatives' table on behalf of the Presidency that we change these five days to up to six days. That means that this year we are given the opportunity to implement the financial speech on Wednesday. But if in second years it would be natural to use shorter time, it says, when the Presidency sets up the timetables, the Presidency is free to decide whether it should be less than six days, because the provision is up to six days. It should be done as early as possible. It has been stated by the Stortinget in the past that the state budget should be presented as soon as possible after the census has been held and the Stortinget opened. I would just like to mention the change that we propose made with the questions of the ordinary Questionnaire, where we now have a provision that says that questions can be rejected when the question concerns a matter that is being dealt with in a committee, or a matter that has been put to the vote on. This is very complicated to have an overview of, and it takes quite a lot of resources to keep up with this. It shall be admitted that, with the quantity of the case in existence and all the documents No. 8 proposals that are gradually promoted in the Storting, it's almost completely impossible to be completely persuasive on this. There will therefore be some questions that escape, and some questions that will be stopped. It is perceived to be unfair by a number of representatives. So what we've decided is that this ground for rejection is going to go away. Then it will be up to the Council of State how the Council of State will formulate the answer in relation to the matter that it has submitted. However, in the case of interpellations, there is usually one month between interpellation and response. Then we have much better time to deal with this, both in the Storting Administration and in the administrative apparatus. That is why we propose that the grounds for rejection be maintained here. So a necessary formality. It is well noted that a member of the Committee has been travelling with the Committee in international forums, that an elected member of the Committee is referred to as ‘secretary’, which is often suitable for creating misunderstandings when we have an employee secretary. We therefore propose that that title be changed from ‘secretary’ to ‘other Vice-Chairman’, so that we get a leader, a first Vice-Chairman and another Vice-Chairman. This means that it will no longer be such that the previously selected secretary should sign on all settings given. It will be done by the President and the President. It does not have to have any practical significance, but it is a sensible approach to current practice. Another change that in itself is important to include, is the change we make in the distribution of settings. Today it is assumed that there will be 48 hours after the document has been distributed, before the matter is dealt with. Now and in the future, this will be made available quickly through electronic distribution. Now, what we're actually proposing as a change is that it's normally going to be 48 hours after the setting is distributed, regardless of how it's distributed. It doesn't necessarily have to be regrouped into a paper version. Usually this is not a practical problem, but I want to say that it should not be a general rule that we adopt an exception to the 48-hour rule. The general rule shall be that the 48-hour rule is followed and that, exceptionally, it shall be waived – in very special situations. As our electronic tools develop, it will actually be so that the individual representative of the aggregates can follow the processes of the committees in a completely different way from those of the previous one, as everything had to be in paper form. Instructions on the archiving of committee documents are currently available to the Presidency. I have to say it's far beyond what should be the presidency's task. We have very good administrative procedures for this, so we propose that this responsibility be transferred to the administration. With this, I address the proposal that has been distributed at the representatives' tables, which means a change in the setting, and recommend the presidency's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-06.ana.ud1019e130	President-in-Office of the Council, Jørgen Kosmo, has addressed the proposal he mentioned, which has been distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-06.ana.ud1019e133	I just want to be allowed to address the proposal of the Central Party that has been distributed at the seats of the representatives, and briefly justify it by saying that the absence of a Council of State should not block the possibility for a questioner to raise new questions. Furthermore, the Centre Party supports the proposals and the submissions submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-06.ana.ud1019e140	The representative Arnstad has taken up the suggestion she made. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-06.ana.ud1019e150	The size is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-06.ana.ud1019e157	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jørgen Kosmo, on behalf of the Presidency, 2, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party Mr Kosmo will have the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-06.ana.ud1019e169	As regards proposal No: 2, from the representative of Marit Arnstad, I just want to say that the Presidency supports her proposal for a change. I think it's right – and when it's right, it makes sense – to make such a change. And in order to save time, the parliamentary leaders I have been talking to agree to this, so it is appropriate that this should be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-06.ana.ud1019e174	If the President-in-Office believes that this is both correct and sensible, it must be done that someone will oppose it – the President will assume!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-06.ana.ud1019e213	There is an amended proposal, proposal No. 1, from the Presidency: ‘The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 19 shall be replaced by the following: Section 2 of the Appropriations Regulation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-06.ana.ud1019e232	This means that the proposal for a decision under this paragraph will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-06.ana.ud1019e297	For § 53 nr. The first paragraph contains a proposal, proposal No. 2, from the Centre Party: ‘§ 53, paragraph 3 is supplemented as follows after the third sentence of the first subparagraph: if a question has to be postponed as a result of a State Council's departure, the representative may ask two questions during the next Question Time.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-06.ana.ud1019e341	There is an amended proposal, proposal No. 1, from the Presidency:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-06.ana.ud1019e358	Accordingly, the proposal for a decision under II shall lapse.
