ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e51	Three permit applications are available: from representatives Ingmar Liones and Ingvild Vaggen Malvik on leave from 9 December until 12 December to take part in the ninth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change in Milan by the Workers' Party Group on sick leave of the representative Synnøve Konglevoll from 9 December until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the county of Hordaland: Pål Kårbø For Troms County: Knut Werner Hansen For Sør-Trøndelag County: Jørund Leknes3. Pål Kårbø and Jørund Leknes are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Ingmar Liones and Ingvild Vaggen Malvik respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e90	Pål Kårbø, Knut Werner Hansen and Jørund Leknes are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e104	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party and Socialist Left Party 15 minutes each, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e115	In the last year, 20,000 industrial workplaces have disappeared. In Norway today, there are actually more untrained workers than there are industrial workers. In my view, this is very worrying, but what worries me even more is that so few worry. We are now probably the country in Europe with the lowest industrial employment. Even if there's some positive signal that we're going to slip over, I think there's a great danger that the decline in industrial employment in Norway will continue. Power-processing industries face huge challenges. On average, this industry today pays 11 cents for its power, which is one of the most important inputs. In a few years' time, most of the contracts in this area will expire, and everything today suggests that many will have both their double and triple costs as one of the most important inputs. Many of these businesses are drifting on the margin today, and it is not particularly difficult to predict that the decline will continue, and that in the worst case it will mean closure for many of these businesses. Another industry that is struggling is the food industry. We are constantly reading about increased imports of semi-high bread and other semi-finished products, which fill up an increasingly large part of the Norwegian store shelves. We read about the import of beer, and we see that this is probably just the beginning of a trend. Due to the WTO and other international agreements, a good part of the import regulations in these areas will disappear or be reduced and, in addition, the WTO will probably lead to a reduction in food production in Norway, which in turn will have a negative impact on this industry. In the last year, 5,000 jobs have disappeared in the offshore industry. Unfortunately, there is a lot of evidence to suggest that this is just the beginning. With the plans currently on the table for investment on a Norwegian base, the level of such investment will be halved for a few years. The consequences of this can be very dramatic. We know that the Norwegian fishing industry has broken back in many ways, and it needs a lot to do before you get up and up again. What Norway had to contend with in the situation that Norway is now in is an active government that took these challenges seriously, and that is making an effort to reverse developments. Unfortunately, we have to say that such a government does not have Norway today. The government has done too little to reverse the negative trend, nor does it have any offensive attitude to how to meet the new challenges. If we are to get the industry back on track, we must pursue an active policy, and we may need to have both a large and a small industrial policy in Norway. Of course, the big policy must be to keep the economy in order. We must have a low interest rate. We must have a low exchange rate, and we must have a flexible public sector. Of course, this means how much money we can spend in this nation, and it means how much we politicians can spend on public budgets. The word in the economy is a device for closing, but it's not enough. Therefore, what we might call a small enterprise policy is also necessary — the measures that are being put in place to get the wheels back on track. Such measures include instruments and programmes to stimulate new growth, to promote SND, to launch programmes such as ‘Innovation Furniture’, programmes for new marine species, programmes for economies of scale and, for example, to improve the quality of life. programme for cultural enterprise development in Norway. In this area, the Government has unfortunately failed in total. Unfortunately, once again, it has been suggested to cut heavily in the posts that could help to get the new jobs out. As far as I know, Norway is the only country that bases its policy on so-called 'nutritional neutrality'. Even the most liberal countries are concerned about screening and keeping their own business. All other countries have an ambition to achieve something in this area, but the Norwegian government made ideology more important than the intention to find practical solutions for own business. In Norway, only fiscal and fiscal policies and no other means of action are to help. With the right approach to the EU, it should be a great paradox that the EU itself has a very active industrial policy and a great ambition to be world-leading in many areas. They've led an active policy to achieve these goals, and they set parameters that they're constantly measuring up to. This should be something we could learn from in Norway. For the Labour Party, employment will always be one of the most important issues. That is why this is a red thread in our budget. We would like to equip the Minister of Industry with tools to do the job, so last year we proposed a number of schemes that would make this possible. We proposed the same thing in the spring, and we propose the same thing now in the fall. We want an active industrial policy. This, of course, is important for our budgets, but an active industrial policy can also lead without budgeting. Just to give an example: In the previous period, the developers of the Snow White field put that thing in the drawer because they thought it was not profitable. Then the finance minister called in and asked what was going to happen to get this project back on track. Then, after some negotiations, they became a few people who said that there was a change in the tax regime. The finance minister proposed it, and on that basis one has now received the largest investment in North Norway. Another example is the desire from the West to build some gas boats. On the basis of that, the Ministry of Oil and Energy entered into a dialogue with the builders and got into a system where Statoil would be able to subtract this from a future annual accounts. They got invested in two new gas boats, which in turn led to the construction of LNG facilities and new leading boats. A great deal of optimism and use of gas in this area. With today's government, none of these projects would have been realised, partly because no one would have done the job that would have been necessary to facilitate, and partly because I understand that the Left should have veto rights in such areas. What the government should have done was settle down with the different industries, discover problems and propose concrete arrangements to remedy the situation. The previous government had e.g. a contact forum for the Norwegian process industry that met at regular intervals. This was immediately removed by the current government. In the same way that the previous government managed to put Snow White on the map again, I am absolutely sure that a greater effort from the Government could also be involved and made it possible to get investment in the Norwegian aluminium industry. It is absolutely necessary to take care of an important industry and important jobs in an area where there are few other options. One of the results of the agreement entered into by the Labour Party and the Government Party in the budget of the year is that the Government is now committing itself to a much more active policy of initial investment and conversion in the municipalities that were the subject of Hydro's decisions. I hope that the Minister of Industry today will be able to do well for what initiative he has already taken and what he will do to implement this part of the conciliation. Although this is important for the communities I have mentioned here, which are specifically mentioned in the agreement, unfortunately other communities are also struggling with major migration problems. Such a society is Florø. In the next year, one in four jobs is likely to disappear. 25 pst. in a few months, the number of jobs has been lost. Of course, this is negative for the whole of society. While the rest of the country today is experiencing a buy-in party, the situation in Florø is that also the trading booth wears out. I hope that the Government will also support Florø and other communities that would come into this situation. Had we had a more active industrial policy, had we had the gas ferries on the bed before, if we had invested in an increased oil activity in the north, we could have built offshore boats and others that could make people today work instead of raising social security. But then there's an offensive business policy, and unfortunately we don't have it today. In my view, some of the most important things about the agreement that has been concluded are that we have managed to reverse the proposals for cut-offs in the permitting arrangements, which have been positively opposed in the industry, and which have actually made it clear that several business owners have recently gone out and said that because of the agreement, they have been able to place permitting notices in the drawers. That way, we've managed to secure people's work in a difficult time. I am therefore pleased that we have received a copy of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e151	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e154	It just struck me that what was missing around the representative Akselsen's posts on the state of things today had to be a black grief frame. I understand that the Workers' Party has not exactly danced on the table in joy over all the prognosis and arrows pointing up in the Norwegian community at the moment. My question to Akssen after this post, where he gives the impression that the Workers' Party is very concerned about the state of things in Norwegian business, must be: How can the Representative Akssen make himself think that it will create increased employment, help Norwegian business and provide incentives for increased employment, when the Workers' Party in its alternative state budget actually manages to squeeze to suggest that this business will receive SEK 4.2 billion in increased taxes and taxes? There's a lot that's not related here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e161	I think I'll start my reply as I started my post: My main concern is that so few worry about the negative signals that are in Norwegian business today. Of course, I'm very pleased with the positive signals that are also coming, but the positive signals are very much about trade and vice and to a lesser extent about their industry. I feel pretty sure this country will be able to meet the challenges that, among other things. In the Pension Commission's setting, we are forced to have an emerging industry. It is then that our industry is the starting point of the construction in the district of Norway. Without industry, we can't have a desired policy for building. This government's policy has now been pursued for two years. We've seen the result. There is no pleasure in business – rather the opposite. The Labour Party has always had industrial policy as one of its most important areas. We've always been in control of the economy through our budgets, and we've wanted through the tools to stimulate new activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e168	The chairperson of the Committee was very concerned with an active industrial policy. He was also involved in the budgetary agreement with the government parties. But here I find it a little difficult to follow the whole reasoning, because there is no subsidiary reality, even though the Labour Party has its own alternative budget proposal. It must be left behind the budget adopted in the various committees, and that means that it has to do with the rules of leave. The obligation to pay during the period of leave is increased from three to ten days. We get increased taxes on alcohol and tobacco. The yield in Statkraft and Statnett is pure. We get a meat tax that will make 10,000 jobs in the meat industry unsafe, against what the trade unions themselves say. Jens Stoltenberg has said that in 2004 the Labour Party will not put forward proposals of a budgetary nature. Does this mean that the active industrial policy underpinned by the Workers' Party will have to be put on ice throughout 2004? How, then, is it going to restore industrial jobs in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e175	The President is also of the opinion that referring to decisions taken in the Grand Duchy is not compatible with good parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e178	Of course, in the Labour Party, we are responsible for what we argue for. I thought more people in this room could learn from that. Jon Lilletun has claimed that a good budget was better than the Labour Party. I don't agree with that. A poor budget has now improved and has given us a chance to pursue a much more active industrial policy, because some of the means that this government, with the help of the Progress Party, has now come back into place over the last two years. We have also managed, through the agreement, to reduce the permeability of the companies from 30 to 10 days, and we have managed to extend the period of leave from 26 to 40 weeks. I choose to listen more to business than I do to Hedstrøm when we're going to evaluate the nature of the agreement. So they say that now it looks much better, and they have a better chance of living with this than they had with their original proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e185	The committee leader is concerned that so few worry. I can then reassure him that I am worried. I am concerned about the future of Norwegian agriculture when I see what happens in Sweden after they enter the EU, with the huge depopulation of rural areas. We see that area by area is actually set aside for the population, and the soils are growing again with deciduous forests and miscellaneous things. So the committee leader says we have to learn from the EU. Is it the case that we should also learn from the European Union in agricultural policy? I could imagine that the axis could give an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e190	I must admit that I am also concerned about Norwegian agriculture, but it is completely independent of the EU, because what is happening is that international negotiations are now under way through the World Trade Organisation, which will probably help to change Norwegian agricultural policy in total. It happens whether Norway is in the EU or not. It's said that maybe as many as 40 pst. by those who work in this sector will lose their jobs if WTO proposals are implemented. Then we think that we in this room have a common responsibility to try to counteract it, and try to exploit the possibilities that exist within the WTO as well, and take care of as much of agriculture as possible. When it comes to Sweden, they have managed agricultural policy in a completely different way from what Norway has done. But they started 20–30 years ago, and the situation in the Swedish countryside is completely independent of their membership. It is also the case that Swedish farmers’ organisations were, in fact, followers of the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e200	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e203	It became a historic settlement this time, when the so-called main opponents of Norwegian policy came together to find a solution that, in my opinion, was the only right and necessary in the time we are inside. There is no need to do anything but give the Workers' Party credit for putting up and helping to take responsibility in the situation that was in budgetary terms. I am also pleased that this agreement means that Norwegian industry is avoiding the tax increases that would be the alternative to another government. I am also pleased that the Norwegian industry and the country otherwise escape the situation that a settlement would result in increased use of oil revenues in the Norwegian economy, an increase in consumption that would bring the country back to the situation that was in when the international low economic recessions struck in such a way that it brought the competitive sector in the country in a very, very difficult situation, many in a rather hopeless situation, as far as the representative Akselsen was concerned in his main post, but he did not get into the reasons why Norwegian industry had the difficulties he himself described. When expressions such as lack of industrial policy are used in this debate, it becomes pointless in many ways. I dare say that there is no area in which this government has succeeded more than just in the field of industrial policy. Taking into account the low economic cycle we've been through, the starting point of Norwegian industry and business when the Stoltenberg government went off, with Russia as one exception, we were on the top of the European interest rate and had a krone price that was so strong that the export industry suffered every day. We had some paychecks behind us that made you slow, but surely choked the Norwegian competitiveness. In the period that has passed, when we are about to take up the third fiscal year, we see that we have been able to give back hope, faith and optimism, what will create the basis for value creation, for increased employment and increased investment and innovation in Norwegian business. Then is not the old medicine that led to the many problems in a situation where the purchasing power of the international markets disappeared, the solution, and that would be the option if, for example, it were the Workers' Party, the SV and the Center Party that would distribute the goods and create the solutions for the people most in the coming years. Today, we see that industrial production is on the increase. We see increased investment in ICT. We see that the companies employ more people, and we see that the main business organisation reports increased optimism among its members. We see increased investment for the first time in many, many years of research and development, and we see that Aetat reports fewer job vacancies around Norway. Clearly, without the budgetary and fiscal policies that have been pursued, with considerable resistance, not least in this room, it would be impossible to bring interest rates down from the historically high level compared to any other country, from the seventies down to 2.5 pst. as we have today. We see that optimism is going back. The krone price has been brought down to a level which means that the export industry is at least seeing a number of lighter quotations than they have done in a long time within the euro zone. This, of course, requires discipline. But it also requires that we in this room are able to target the optimism and faith of the future that is needed in times like this. Over the next year, Norway will have left behind a year of relatively low economic growth. This growth will change. If the forecasts presented by all professional experts are successful, Norway will appear to be the highest-growth country in Europe. It only documents and shows that the policies that have been pursued have produced the results that Norwegian jobs, Norwegian investors and Norwegian enterprises seem to have good reason to rejoice today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e218	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e221	In the Fisheries Bulletin a few days ago, there was an interview with a professional self-employed person who wants to catch. This is exactly what the Storing has been asking for. The self-employed person in question has faced many challenges in this regard and is now facing a new challenge in the absence of a fisheries agreement and, therefore, there is not enough support for self-anxiousness. Will the Right and Government parties be willing to look at the framework again and, if necessary, to allocate more money for this and for other fishing purposes that cannot be carried out without State participation in the short and long term? Or does the representative Kristiansen think that the framework is adequate and can further be stepped down in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e226	I share Mr Arnesen's concern about the lack of participation in self-afraid, which has been the result for many years from Norway. Similarly, Russia has not been able, on its part, to take out its share of the annual quota allocated. I think we have a common position on these issues. I note with satisfaction that a majority in the committee position is gathered on a common note in this area. I believe that, in a good dialogue with the Council of State, Arnessen's reasoning and conclusion will not be correct, that because it was not a fisheries agreement, it means that one is unable to make a vigilance on self-afraid. This is now on the Council of State's table, and I think the comments that we have made jointly with the Workers' Party will be followed up in a reassuring manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e231	The representative Kristiansen made it clear that he was pleased with the budgetary agreement. But I wonder if the Right's own voters are particularly pleased, as the small tax reliefs that were in the budget originally were largely eliminated after the budgetary conciliation. We did not receive visible tax relief, and the charges, which are already at the European summit, were increased. I'm going to mention someone from the nutrition committee: the meat inspection fee, the taxes on alcohol and tobacco, the benefits of state enterprises, and we have a lot of other things, the rules of leave, etc., which made things worse for the Norwegian industry. Is it the case that the Right has now left the requirement to reduce taxes and taxes under its programme and a business neutrality in its policy? For they have now always been committed to an active industrial policy in the budget. Is there any substitute for what is in the Right Programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e238	Unlike the representative Hedstrom's party, we place great emphasis on what is in our programme. I believe that in the field that the representative deals with tax relief, we have really delivered. And we've delivered so to the degrees that this is one of the points the opposition gives us the most criticism of. Around 20 billion kroner so far in tax reliefs are not petty compared to what the Norwegian people have been exposed to normally, with other governments. We have in no way put aside our ambitions in this area. And I think the policy that has been pursued also by means of tax reliefs, as well as that we have managed to knock down interest rates, which has given business the same number of billions of reliefs, which is $20 billion in addition, makes us today a good starting point for meeting tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e247	I want to follow up the line of the representative from Arnesen in relation to the fisheries agreement. We have had some rounds of this earlier in the Question Time in Stortinget, where the Council of State said that Norway’s raw fish teams are disinformationing because they say that, in reality, a halving of the fisheries agreement between 2003 and 2004 must necessarily go awry. When I look at the remark from the government party and the Labour Party, and when I hear the answer from the representative Kristiansen, I wonder if he has not understood that this must go against anything. For the comment states, as the representative of Kristiansen was also concerned in his reply, that a emphasis is on self-afraid. Then one also says that the need for leadership means is great. But what in all the world is this going to go beyond? Does that mean that it is going to go beyond the lineage centres, or is it going beyond the warranty card? Or does the response from Kristiansen mean that the Government is actually willing to look at the framework of the fisheries agreement and, if necessary, come back to the revised national budget with an increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e254	I don't think you'll even hit the record if you try to make the situation next year for the Norwegian fishing industry depending on whether the amount will be 85 million. kr or something similar in the vicinity of the Norwegian fisheries agreement. Within that amount, it's NOK 50 million. plus 35 million. to the Structural Funds. Knowing that next year’s Norwegian fishing industry will have a significantly larger volume and can capture a market where purchasing power is increasing significantly, while Norwegian fishing industry will benefit from the overall improvements in tax, tax and interest levels compared to the current year and last year’s, it would suggest that we have good reason to have a number of optimism on the way forward also on behalf of the Norwegian fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e259	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e262	When the Economic and Social Committee examined the instrument proposal a few months ago, the Committee decided that Norway should remain close to key areas of knowledge, technology and value creation. Today there is a strong contrast between this vision and the realities. This is currently very clear. From the third quarter of last year to the third quarter of the current year, industry lost 21 000 jobs. We're experiencing an industrial death that almost misses parallel in Norwegian history. The export industry is particularly vulnerable because we feel that many businesses are dabbling, shutting down or flagging out their business. In fact, it's about not creating new companies of international format in a long, long time. The Progress Party believes that this development should be reversed in a positive direction, a whole new industrial policy is required in the broadest sense. Such a policy must include all the framework conditions affecting the competitiveness of industry in addition to traditional industrial policy. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party on tax reliefs in the financial situation, which together provide a much lower level of burden than the alternatives of other parties. We are reducing the total tax burden by 18 billion kroner. It is absolutely necessary if we are to give our businesses competitive conditions and to survive in a society of fierce competition. In this way, we can compensate companies for their handicaps at a high cost level, by being far from the large markets, having a small domestic market, poorly developed infrastructure and much, much more. In that case, it is not useful to provide small tax reliefs. If our businesses are to have sufficient optimism and development opportunities, the significant tax and tax cuts must be made from day one. It will have a beneficial effect on the economy, because it will be more profitable to work, more profitable to invest and more profitable to save, which in turn will improve the basis for growth in gross domestic product. Goods and services are cheaper as a result of the tax reliefs. Border trade leakage is reduced as a result of tax relief and will contribute to more jobs in Norway. We lose approx. 9000 jobs in the commercial and service industries and a part of the brewing industry in relation to a balanced cross-border trade, much due to special distortive taxes. But it won't stop here. The budgetary agreement entails, inter alia, the following: the introduction of the highest meat levy in Europe, which will greatly contribute to making many of the 10 000 jobs in the meat industry unsafe. For us, it is incomprehensible that we talk about combating unemployment and at the same time help to reinforce the problems through excessive charges. It is particularly sad to record that the Right in Government does not receive any relief. The consequence of the budgetary agreement is that the extremely modest tax reliefs are mostly gone. The Progress Party now seems to stand alone in the Storting to believe that tax relief improves economic growth and thus the future income of the State, although there is a common and effective policy in many other countries. The government has significant objectives and ambitions for innovation policy and indicates that Norway is one of the world’s most innovative countries. If these ambitions and objectives are to be met in full or in part, the Progress Party considers that it is necessary in industrial policy to focus not only on business neutrality but also on the importance of targeted investment. At a time when technological development, significant changes in markets and increased global competition are essential. The principle of nutrition neutrality may lie at the bottom, enabling all industries in principle to succeed in their address in Norway. But that doesn't mean we're raising the neutral tabs so high that the shadows of reason that lie in ensuring that we have internationally competitive framework conditions in the areas where we already have competence in Norway, or have obvious natural advantages, such as in the biomarine sector, energy, offshore and maritime sectors. Furthermore, we are deeply concerned about the lack of capital supply of Norwegian business at all stages of development. It is largely due to the fact that the country seizes significant values or parts of the value creation that take place in the private sector. We do not understand the importance of government saving large amounts of money invested abroad, while we have high unemployment in the domestic private sector. Significant resources should be returned to the private sector at home, so that long-term growth can be increased. The Progress Party wants a country that takes active responsibility for strengthening Norwegian private ownership environments, so that private ownership in Norway can grow significantly compared to today. We want a debate on how to dispose of oil assets, and that it opens up the possibility of a greater share being invested in Norwegian companies, among others. through various funds in which private interests and the State invest together. We recall that the following proposals were adopted in connection with the debate on the throne: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider different ways of making Norway’s capital strength a competitive advantage for Norwegian competitive business including possible fund structures.’ I underline fund constructions. This may be a step in the right direction to ensure that the country’s new commodity capital can contribute much more to strengthening Norwegian businesses than today. We expect that an investigation into the creation of a State Structural Fund to act as a co-investor of Norwegian private interests in connection with foreign purchases or business-driven and necessary restructuring measures will be part of this work. When Norwegian industry has significant problems, it may be reasonable to move to countries that have succeeded in developing a successful industry, for example. Finland. In this context, established truths have been replaced by entirely new means of asserting themselves in competition. In Finland, success has been based on an active industrial policy, with significant use of public funds for the development of new technologies and the training and development of relevant competences at all levels. It has evolved from a commodity-based economy to take the place of one of the world’s leading nations in the development of high technology, as a result of an intimate cooperation between industry, research and public policy. We believe it is high time that Norway developed similar strategies to take a close-up in technology development and competitiveness. This affects our priorities not only in business policy but also in economic policy, research policy, education policy, energy policy and ownership policy. This will be followed up in the field of the Business Committee, inter alia: by going beyond any other party in terms of improving the conditions of competition for all competitive shipping. We are also proposing to strengthen the new innovation and internationalisation company in various areas, whether in terms of R & D efforts, export-oriented activities, international tourism marketing or the supply of seed capital. A significant strengthening of this area is also taking place through our foreign budget, etc. Our proposals will be able to give rise to positive forces in the form of labour, capital, initiative and creation in Norwegian businesses. Part of the expenditure increases resulting from active nutritional measures are covered, inter alia: through significant savings in the agricultural sector. In the process we are now in, in which the political majority invokes a tight budget, it is alarming for the Progress Party that the same majority is willing to maintain very high transfers to agriculture. The Progress Party wants to distance itself from plan management in agriculture, a plan management that has been flawed and has made many farmers more or less passive beneficiaries – it is a policy that is in the process of destroying an entire industry. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party, which is referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e294	The representative Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e299	First of all, let me take up the suggestions made by the Labour Party in the configuration. It is such that the history of the Progress Party shows that it has our Norway's most liberal party. The batch programme for this batch has been full of a re-establishment of business neutrality for all years. It's kind of been one of the most important examples of this game. Now it's the opposite. If we go to the last party program, it says that we want a massive sale of public ownership in Norwegian business. Now it's the other way around. Now I have the impression that the Progress Party has become the most state-friendly party in Norway. Of course, I am pleased with this positive development. But the biggest problem in the last year has actually been our industrial situation, which has been related to the economy that has been in this country. The Progress Party therefore wants to have a very active policy and will now stimulate both the private and the public sectors in its budget. Does the representative of Hedstrøm not believe that this will lead to a negative development for industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e308	The representative of Olav Aksensen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e311	It is true, as the committee's chairman says, that we are the party on the Great Britain that has been liberalistic and has been responsible for economic liberalism. We are still going the longest in terms of reducing taxes, taxes and public intervention. But we also understood that this has not been enough. It has also not been possible to have a majority in the Stortingen for tax reliefs such as monks, so we have gradually become somewhat more pragmatic. This has been followed up by decisions at our national meeting last spring, and we are now also pursuing a more active industrial policy. We do that because we're learning. We look at the countries that succeed in the combination of reduced taxes, taxes and public intervention and having a more active industrial policy. It is then possible to look at Finland and look at what the Finnish Prime Minister said the other day, namely that they want to reduce taxes and taxes in a number of areas in order to raise income in the Finnish Treasury, but this will take some time. At the same time, Finland has succeeded in having an active industrial policy. They have come out of the commodity clamp, which Norway does not have, as that is more than 50 pst. exports by Norway remain commodity-based.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e316	An element that is of particular importance to industry is a stable and sustainable framework. The party of progress has, on several occasions, made significant changes in industrial policy. In particular, this state ownership, where one has turned from being a liberalist party to becoming one of the hottest followers of state ownership, most recently at the time of the separation of Hydro Agri. Is the representative Hedstrøm agreed that this cork is consistent with its ideological basis in relation to the Progress Party or in relation to providing a good framework for business?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e323	Of course, I do not agree with the question put by Mr Nornes. We are consistent in tax relief. Every year this is followed up in our alternative budgets. But it is right that we now have a more active policy of state ownership. Because if we look at Oslo Børs today, we see that those who are strong are the state and foreign owners, while private Norwegian owners now, as far as I remember, are down to 5 pst. Then we have some institutional investors where Norwegian interests have been strong, but who are gradually taken over by foreign interests, read Nordea. We want to strengthen private Norwegian ownership. It must not be like when we quoted Statoil and Telenor, then 90 pst. the shares left the country. In Norway, we depend on having Norwegian entrepreneurs and industrialists. That's what we want to take into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e330	I want to grasp the representative Hedstrom's characteristic of agriculture, which I still feel is one-eyed and unbalanced. We have an agricultural policy in Norway, which is among those with the strongest efficiency growth year after year. We have fewer and fewer who produce the food we need. And then you get to hear that one has very high transfers to an agricultural sector that is more and more self-reliant. In this year's government budget, transfers amount to about EUR 10 billion. 2 pst. It's an historic low. My question to the representative Hedstrøm is: Is it not soon that Hedstrøm special and the Progress Party in general get a slightly more balanced attitude to Norwegian agriculture, which produces the quality product in a more and more efficient way in a high-cost country? In my opinion, what is happening in agriculture is unique. I hope the Progress Party can also be willing to view this in a more balanced way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e339	In response to the question from the representative Gedrem: The efficiency, rationalisation and development of Norwegian agriculture is unfortunately too slow if we compare ourselves with other countries it is natural to compare ourselves with. I can take an example: in the 1970s, a Norwegian, a Swedish, a Danish, and a Finnish dairy farmer had about the same number of cows. Five years ago the Swedes had 30, the Danish 60 and Finns are at full speed in the future, while in Norway it is about silent. Here's a Norwegian dairy farmer with 15 cows. All the other Nordic countries adapt to the world of reality and have faith in the future and that they can survive because of rationality and efficiency when the customs walls fall. But in Norway, there is too little. So we have to relate to the world of reality. That's what the Progress Party does.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e346	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e349	One of the biggest challenges for us in the Business Committee is how to meet the changing society, that is, things happen faster and faster. I remember when I became rapporteur at Namskogan twelve years ago, I got a cell phone. There were three pieces that had a cell phone on Namskogan then, it was the forest manager, it was the doctor, and it was the rapporteur. It was like a big suitcase – I was able to carry it, but it was heavy, and then it cost NOK 30 000. Now, twelve years have passed, and there are video cameras, cameras and various data inside one. And we know that the evolution of society in the future is going to go even faster. What I think is the biggest challenge, is how, as politicians, we are able to facilitate so that business can meet the changing society. At least in my party, we're concerned about what we call preventive nutrition, that is. that we are much more able to deploy resources, instruments, while businesses are going down. Peter F. Hjort, who is an expert on preventive health work, says that it is 60 times as effective to do preventive health work as it is with repairing health work. Whether the same is true for business, I'm not going to say, but there's no doubt that we're going into businesses and into environments while it's going down in business, is absolutely crucial if we're going to succeed in all of the sectors that are in transition. One of the areas where there is a huge transformation is agriculture. I think what the Minister of Agriculture has done about Agriculture Pluss is very positive. The idea behind Agriculture Pluss, where there's kind of a strange way to deliver food to the population, is definitely a step in the right direction. But there are a lot of problems around it. Last weekend I met a farmer who has converted to organic farming and wants to manage the goat's milk to seven farmers, and who produces excellent goat's cheese. But then it turns out that there are a lot of areas that neither the ministry nor anyone else has, that are the obstacle. There are obstacles to the fact that SND, as it continues to say, does not find that there is enough cooperation to get money to invest, there are problems with the dairy cooperative, which have their practices in relation to transporting milk, etc., etc. So I have a strong call to the Minister of Agriculture that when you also work with Agriculture Pluss, you draw all the other actors who are crucial to success in this area. And when we first talk about Agriculture Pluss, I'll go a little bit into the woods. One of the areas of concern to my party is that we have gone a lot away from cultivation and planting in the forest, which has been a resource in Norway all year long. At the same time, we know that compared to Sweden, we're a sink in bioenergy. We almost do not produce bioenergy at all, despite the lack of power in Norway. They say we have between 5 and 10 TWh too little power in Norway in a normal year. So we know that 1 TWh more bioenergy provides between 400 and 500 jobs. There's a lot of people talking about this cheeky egg that gives so many possibilities. But if we had done more in the woods, at least there would have been some kind of cheek eggs where we had both created jobs in areas of the country that are threatened by relocation, and had managed to create energy that we lack in Norway to cover up our excess consumption. In addition, we could have taken better care of the forest, which has always been and will always be a resource. I am concerned that we have a too passive forest policy in Norway today. Then I think it was gratifying that the committee finally managed to gather around a device in relation to the seed money. I think that these district money, which SV has worked a lot with in Stortinget to get through, is now starting to get a device that is very interesting. We've already got 500 million out. kr in a loan arrangement, and now we have approx. NOK 1 billion to be used for seed in four areas of the country. And it is quite clear in the Committee's position that this should be used in the most underprivileged areas threatened by relocation, mainly so-called A, B and C areas. What is also said in the committee is that you are now willing to go up to 70 pst. in public capital and that the private part shall be 30 pst. It's also absolutely crucial, I think, to raise such capital in the areas where you wanted to make investments in good projects that you think will be profitable in the long term. Then it has also been said that in the case of private capital, it is okay that e.g. banks, insurance companies, energy plants, etc. enters into so-called institutional capital. I think it is very gratifying that all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, have joined forces to take this grip on District Norway, so that we also get capital against good projects – and I would stress that – projects that you believe have the right of life, which can pay off in the future, and which are not stopped by the fact that you don't have capital. On Sunday at the latest, I spoke to the rapporteur in Røyrvik, who is one of Norway's smallest municipalities, with 500 inhabitants. They have three such exciting projects. Maybe it will show that they will be able to get to one or two of them, but they lack money and welcome such a proposal, so that you can actually realize, by bringing in owners with both capital and knowledge that can help businesses up and go. Finally, in my post, I would like to point out something that is a little curious, but that is important to us in SV. It's the local store support that we got through last year, and it's going to be back this year. 90 shops in Norway, 90 small communities with between 50 and 100 inhabitants cheered in the fall when they got $50,000 each for the nearby store. The grocery store in a small community is important because in addition to shopping the necessary groceries there, ranging from pantyhose to wheat flour, you have a place where you can meet and make a cup of coffee, a place where you hang up your posters, and a place where there are actually some simple public services. That means that you can do the most necessary thing you have to do in order to be able to live there. Now the Storting has again agreed that we can extend this arrangement by one year. I think it's very positive that so many parties support it. It's a very small amount for the state, but it's a very large amount for the small communities -- the 90 communities that actually flagged when they got one of those messages and now sees that they're capable of maintaining a completely necessary service offer. This isn't all dying societies. Many of these communities actually have jobs, such as: in both fisheries and other areas, creating something in society. It's not passive, dying societies. They are actually viable, but very small communities, and we are therefore very happy to have got through that proposal. I refer to the proposals that SV has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e370	The representative of Inge Ryan has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e376	The representative Ryan often gives the impression of being busy with District Norway. We may all be aware that primary industries are important, but it is still true that too much of District Norway is the industry that is the main source of activity. In his contribution, Mr Ryan now said that he would contribute to the process of conversion, but the proposals his party has made in this Chamber will contribute to a conversion that will speed up the process of closure. For power-intensive industries, they have done everything they can to prevent new access to power, and one has introduced strange environmental requirements. In the last year, 5,000 industrial workplaces have disappeared in the offshore industry. SV's answer to this is that they propose to take NOK 1 billion away from the state's efforts when it comes to funding new projects next year. The question has to be: is it too few unemployed in the industry, or is it such that SV felt that industrial workplaces are not worthy of serving districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e385	This is one of the issues that is difficult for our party. This is not an easy matter, because we are most concerned with maintaining the highest possible industrial workplaces in Norway, and also creating new ones, as I mentioned in my post, so that we are constantly forward-looking in what we are doing. Then we have something called environment. Firstly, we are concerned about the environment in our party, but we also have some international commitments that we need to focus on, and the conflict between environment and pollution, is a conflict that is alive in our party. We're trying to make a balance here, so we take care of the environment -- we're very concerned about that -- but at the same time we can take care of the most jobs. However, some jobs are so environmentally demanding that unfortunately they have to be converted. But I would like to admit that this is one of the demanding questions that our party is constantly working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e394	The representative Ryan is good at describing the situation, preferably from the time he was rapporteur in Namskogan. In his post he wasn't at all concerned with what Right and I think is the most important thing in business policy, namely keeping the economy in order. The most important thing for both industry and agriculture is that we have a good, stable and predictable economic policy. I want to ask the representative Ryan the question: Does the representative Ryan think it would have been possible to buy pantyhose and wheat flour throughout Norway, which he spoke about in his article, if we had not led a tight economic policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e401	You've got the interest rate and the rate, and I think that's very good. It was necessary for the Norwegian economy to be able to do so. But at the same time, I think right in too many contexts is too passive. You're leaning back a little bit too much. And if you read the story to the Right, it's been marked by a lot of passivity. It's not the Right that's kind of torn the snoring of the cold-grain in the Storting. You've often leaned back and left society out of order. Many of the reforms and grips that have been made have been taken by other parties, such as the Left in an early phase, the Workers' Party a little later, and now it's the SV that takes over that role.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e406	I'm going to grab a little hold of the last one. It's really epoch-making that a now should have a seed fund that, according to Inge Ryan, will only benefit people in the districts. According to Trønder-Avisa, Inge Ryan says that not a penny will come to Trondheim and Stjørdal, and that the head office will be located north of Namsos and south of Brønnøysund. It might be interesting to get to the right if this is what the multiples are behind. But what is my question is: wouldn't it be better that this seed fund was nationwide, for how else should we help entrepreneurs who live in Stjørdal and Trondheim, in Ålesund and Oslo, with venture capital and seed funds? Wouldn't it be better that the private capital that exists in these cities, too, could be involved in financing so that we could really get a seed capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e415	I think there is also a need for capital injection in some central areas, but we must realize that the major problems today in terms of maintaining the settlement, we do not have in Trondheim, not in Oslo, not in Stavanger, nor in Bergen. The major problems of maintaining today's settlement are located quite elsewhere. And if we mean anything with the beautiful words that we come with both in the Storting and in other arenas, we sometimes have to take some heavier grip. I am very pleased that both the Minister of Industry and the majority in the United Kingdom agree that we are now going to take a step towards good projects out in the periphery, so that we can put in instruments that will enable us to achieve some of the beautiful and good goals that this Greatness has. That's why it was absolutely necessary to move some resources out of the big cities and out into District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e424	The Christian People's Party believes that the objective of the budget is well cared for also this year, when it is set up for work for all, increasing value creation, further development of the welfare community, fair distribution and sustainable development. A very necessary condition for achieving these objectives is that we have a strong and competitive business. This does not happen by itself, but is influenced by several factors, such as: international economic activity, economic policy and wage development. The developments we have seen over the last few years show that there are major challenges in terms of how industrial policy frameworks are to be developed in Norway, while it is important that governance prioritises an active and targeted industrial policy. I think we're in a good way, when we look at the government's investment in different business areas. Today, we have heard again that speakers from the Labour Party are talking about a business-neutral policy being pursued by the Government. This is an incorrect statement. But the disc has been hacked, so I have hardly any hope that the Labour Party will be able to get away from such a characteristic, even though we have rarely had a more selected support for Norwegian business. This is now starting to produce particularly positive results, and I note that in the third quarter of this year there are more than 10,000 new enterprises established in Norway. The solution is on the way down, and there is no need for the black paint that the Labour Party has done here in the debate so far today. When it comes to the final business budget, I want to start by focusing on the new innovation and internationalisation company Innovation Norway. This company is a coordination of SND, SVO, Norway’s Export Council and Norway’s Tourist Council, and from 1 January 2004 it will have its funds transferred to this new unit. Innovation Norway aims at networking at both regional, national and international level. For users, this coordination will make it possible to get in touch with all the institutions and systems involved in the instrumentation through a single office. In this way, we gather tools within four main categories — funding, advice and empowerment, networks and infrastructure, and profiling of Norwegian business abroad. Innovation Norway is thus an important tool in creating an innovative business. Another important role for Innovation Norway worth mentioning will be its role as a pro-active development actor and precursor for the development of networks and interactions between governance, the research and competence environment and business. The effects of this work should be exciting to follow further. Today, the Inventors Association has about 400 members around the country. This organisation will be important in our commitment to innovation and should secure public basic funding. If innovation policy is to succeed, it is important that it is holistic and includes different areas of society. It is also important that a stronger focus is placed on the organisation of tools for women’s workplaces. We focus on the background of experience and the needs of the different groups of women to participate in this innovation process. Such adaptation is of great value, and may subsequently help to achieve the objective of promoting women's participation in industry and ensuring that parts of the nutrition rights are specifically addressed to women. Maybe we can experience that part approaching 30 pst. The government proposed to grant approximately 750 million in the state budget. kr to various support schemes for Norwegian seafarers. This is a record amount, and combined with the budget agreement, it provides a total of over NOK 1 billion that is used to secure Norwegian maritime competence. When it comes to reindeer management, I'll have to say that I'm generally a little worried about whether it's too late to change. I expect that the department has focused in particular on whether the management of this is satisfactorily guided by the current monitoring of developments before reindeer operations. Finally, I would say, like several others, that the peace we got around the budget this year is very positive and bears witness to a sense of responsibility and maturity that is worthy of the Storting. I would like to stress strongly the constructive role of the Labour Party in providing a budget this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e452	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e455	I think, like the representative Gedrem, that a budgetary settlement was good. Then we have to live with that we are called black painters when we point out the high unemployment rate. It worries us, even though we also see that it's a little bit better now. Olaf Gedrem's articles were little about agriculture. I would like to take up a comment from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, where we say that the municipalities have to find solutions either in their own form or in cooperation, so that one in the municipalities is able to operate agriculture. Because it's part of Agriculture Plus that municipalities are going to deal with some money and some legislation, to get some agricultural policy within a national framework. With regard to such a formulation as that the municipalities need to find a solution, I wonder: Is the Christian People's Party against the fact that the municipalities should be able to acquire competence in this area, when that innovation is so important to us – that the municipalities participate in a future agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e464	Like Aud Gaundal, I'm glad that the unemployment now seems to be on the way down. I came into agriculture little because of the time, but also because there is a small budget, which is largely agreed on, fortunately. When it comes to the specific issue, I am happy to announce that municipalities will be challenged in a completely different way when it comes to caring for agricultural policy. We have given the municipalities considerably greater powers, because we recognize that the senses are equally distributed around the country. I believe that the municipalities themselves can manage the resources they have in their neighbourhoods best, and can best facilitate the best possible use of the land and resources that agriculture collects. We are also overestimated that the municipalities themselves realise that they need to have agricultural competence to maximise their use of the large resources they have within their limits.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e473	The representative Gedrem said that the government's budget is committed to ensuring good and safe jobs. Then I thought it was a little strange that the same government removed the safety training for fishermen, and that one now had to put the ship that was training security in the bows. Then it's a little strange that the Christian People's Party can say that the Government is working to secure the workplaces. We know one needs 14-15 million. kr for this security training. And all that's involved in the budget agreement – perhaps thank you to the Labour Party – is $3 million. kr. Then the question is, how should a safe place be created for the fishermen?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e481	First, I want to admit that the government has taken the tax to produce three tight budgets in order to achieve better conditions for business and to bring down the interest rate and the dollar rate. It has produced extremely good results, which now lead to a better basis for new growth than for a long, long time. When it comes to fishermen's security training, it was originally, as far as I'm concerned, a proposal of 3 million. kr from the Government's page. It'll be more than double, so it'll now be 6.6 million. kr for fishermen’s safety training after the conciliation. It has also been said that one should consider the need for permissions in the course of the year and, if necessary, consider whether adjustments may be needed. But one has seen, even in a tight budgetary situation, that it is necessary to have a certain promise on this chapter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e490	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e493	I'm standing-in today. Because of a combination of sickness and canceled flights from North Norway, I'm going to say a little bit about the central party's view of the industrial challenges associated with the budget for next year. I want to start by saying that the Senterpartiet is not pessimistic about a possible future development of nutrition. It must not be seen here in this Chamber that we who are concerned about the high level of unemployment, or that industrial policy is not what it should be, are pessimistic, because we are not at all. But the Central Party is concerned that we are not using the possibilities that Norway actually has as an industrial and economic nation. That's what we also criticize the Government for in relation to next year's food budget. The central party wants a targeted, decentralised industrial policy. We believe that the budget presented by this government is neither linked to a targeted industrial policy nor to a decentralised industrial policy. There should have been a completely different systematic business strategy, one that enabled business to develop throughout the country, based on what is our competitive advantage. It's the natural resources, it's capital strength, and it's knowledge. This means that the principle of nutrition neutrality must give way to a bet in clearly defined areas. Norway has specific challenges, but also great opportunities related to the shipbuilding industry, Norway has specific challenges, but also great opportunities related to the maritime sector, Norway has specific challenges, but also great opportunities related to the marine sector, and they are not being exploited in a targeted way today. It is the central party's main objection to the nutrient policy profile or a lack of a government profile. Another condition for exploiting the industrial potential of Norway is a modern and well-functioning infrastructure throughout the country. I think that will be a prerequisite for the jobs of the future and for the possibility of developing the whole country. We have traditionally been concerned with distance costs, which give companies located in the districts poorer conditions of competition. But in the years to come, we also need to look more closely at the opportunities that lie on the technological side, and the access that everyone should have in relation to, for example. broadband opportunities. The centre party is also concerned with a tax profile that can be directly aimed at stimulating some parts of the business. That is why we want to exempt new entrants from fees to the Brønnøysund Registers, which is why we are opposed to the Government's proposal for new fees linked to the Food Authority, and that is why we also want net wages for seafarers. The part of the budget that concerns fisheries policy is a bit of a sad reading, because the cuts that appear there may seem small to some, but they are very important to those to whom they relate. The Minister of Fisheries stood here in Stortinget a few weeks ago and said that Norway's raw fish team was disinformationing about what is being cut down in the fisheries agreement. Today, however, we are told that the raw fish team has its words. It is not possible to see, on the part of the Central Party, how the Government will get this budget to go in, based on a 50 million fisheries agreement. kr, when one knows that only last year's lead grant and pick-up of the seal amounted to well over 50 million. kr. Then there is something else that either needs to be reduced or discontinued. It may be the eichning grant, it may be the RUBIN scheme, and there may be other minor grants. It probably can't be the warranty card, because it's statutory. However, it is difficult to see how the Government will get through this without a significant reduction in some schemes. In addition to this, the Centre for the Competence of the Fisheries Industry and the Welfare Service of Seafarers are also liquidated, and so now it is the case that one also has to pay for safety training. These are small issues perhaps in the big picture, but very important issues for the Norwegian fishing industry, and that is a very negative signal compared to the desire for further action. The centre party is concerned with active agriculture, and considers that what the whole committee is behind in saying that one of them has to follow in the further WTO negotiations is very important. We want family farming as a continuing starting point for Norwegian agricultural policy, and that is what we are about to leave today if we are to take the example. Danish or Swedish as the starting point for further Norwegian milk production. Otherwise, the Central Party is very sceptical that one here chooses to invest an ever-increasing share of the funding of supervisory tasks which are, in effect, the responsibility of the State and which should be financed by the State on behalf of consumers and the agricultural industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e516	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e519	Much of that representative Marit Arnstad is concerned about, I can partly join. She is very concerned that we have a decentralised business, that there will be new jobs, and that we must in particular preserve the jobs that are in the districts. The marine and engineering sectors are important, and the exploitation of business opportunities depends, of course, on infrastructure. It's all right. But when it comes to going in for a thermal power plant in Forest, the representative Marit Arnstad is obviously very opposed to it, although all the things she talked about initially, make it important to realize that project. There will be research and development, and there will be many jobs. Does not the representative Marit Arnstad see that it will be enormously important for employment for Nord-Trøndelag, but also for innovation in relation to taking care of CO2?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e526	Yes, I see a number of business opportunities related to the exploitation of natural resources in general, and to Norwegian Forest in the Forest in particular. The condition is that Norwegian Forest also relates to some environmental conditions, related to the activities to be carried out. When it comes to establishing a gas power plant where one removes or minimises CO2 emissions, it is still a piece to go for Norwegian Forest in Forest. And that is what the debate is about. It is not about us not wanting to develop a new business in Forest, nor about Norwegian Forest not being allowed to establish a gas power plant. But a majority in this room would like it to be a gas power plant where one actually does something about the large emissions of CO2, which otherwise will make our compliance with the climate agreement and the Kyoto Protocol completely illusory. Otherwise, Forest has many other interesting nutrient projects. Container ports at Forest are one of those actively supported by the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e535	I have never doubted the Central Party's desire for people to be comfortable both in District Norway and in the cities, but this has probably led the Center Party to often be skeptical about using a ‘mild’ concept in relation to conversion. That's it. It is, however, a fact that we have led a tight fiscal policy that has led to a fall in interest rates and a reduction in the krone price has been positive for the industry in District Norway and cities. That's what really mattered to reverse the trend in the positive direction. The centre party has an alternative budget, where they suggest increasing the use of the oil billions, so that we would again be at risk of increased interest rates and increased dollar rates. Doesn't the Centre Party see the danger of increased use, or over-exploitation, of oil money?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e542	What's overexploitation of oil money is an interesting issue. What the discussion is really about, is what is an over-consumption, and what is kind of a proper consumption. In the autumn budget, the government made up for one to spend 50 billion kroner in total of the oil money. The center part added that we were going to spend 53.3 billion. There is a difference between the use of oil money by the Government and the Central Party. That the difference in itself should be so crucial that it could tilt the Norwegian economy, I have no faith in. I believe that part of the discussion that is taking place around the sacred budget balance is an illusory discussion if one does not take it a little more thoroughly than the Right and the representative Momyr did right now. As regards the conversion and the willingness to convert, I am concerned about the conversion, but the conversion must go in the right direction. The problem with some of the industrial challenges now lies in the fact that the Government contributes to measures that lead the transition in the wrong direction. The removal of forest subsidies combined with very low timber prices is an example of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e551	The centre party is one of the few parties that have decided to regionalise the fisheries. As I see it, each state shall be able to control its own resources off its own coast. Could it be a good thing to be confirmed here in the Chamber of Parliamentary Leaders of the Central Party, since it is a sort of stand-in for the member of the Trade Committee, whether it is so to understand that all fish outside of Finnmark are to be reserved for Finnmark's fishermen? And is it so to understand that the herring and mackerel landings that are now on the Møre coast are to be reserved for the ring fleet from More and Romesdal?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e561	No, that's not how you understand it. What the centre party has said is that we think that one should investigate the possibility of a regional quota allocation. But where the Moors then fetch their quota, the Senter Party is tearing in no way. They'll do that right where they sail. Here's the question of getting an investigation into a scheme where there's talk of quota allocations regionally. It's about an investigation to get on the table the negative or positive consequences that have been associated with it. It is possible that the Progress Party has views on the Central Party's fisheries policy. I have noticed in this budget that the Progress Party has a desire to withdraw the fisheries agreement. It appears more programmed than real, in particular when the Progress Party in next year's budget is in favour of concluding the entire fisheries agreement, but at the same time requests that 20 million be set within the fisheries agreement. kr to self-anxiety. Are they a little sluggish on the issue of terminating the fisheries agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e569	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e572	The government has provided a budget that will ensure safe food for consumers and strengthen the strategic focus on value creation and industrial development throughout the forest and agriculture value chain. I would like to congratulate the Committee on having done a good and thorough job with the budget, and I am pleased that the whole has received support in the Storting through the budgetary position. On the basis of a tight budget, the Government implements major changes in food and agricultural policy, both through food management reform and through a business policy strategy with a broad focus on the development of alternative income and employment opportunities. I am pleased with the support of the establishment of the new Food Authority in the Committee. The government will build up a cost-effective and modern food monitoring system that aims to be Europe’s best in a few years’ time. The investment now being made in the Food Authority not only contributes to a safer everyday life, but is also an investment for the industries that live from food production. The food management reform is based on modernised legislation and effective organisation that takes care of the whole chain. Food surveillance shall have overall responsibility for following the food from inputs to final food. The budgetary situation has made it necessary to significantly increase fees and charges. The most important thing, however, is that we can now implement the reform quickly and that from 2005 we can make the business more efficient. I note that there is a broad consensus on food and agricultural policy. It is positive that the Committee supports the Government's efforts to ensure the scope of action for a continued active agricultural policy by influencing the processes and negotiations in the WTO, agreements with the EU and other international work. The government provides for a closer link between agricultural policy and other industrial policies and resource and environmental management. We also want municipalities to be an active participant with greater influence in agricultural policy. In all my work as a politician, I have been a hot defender of local democracy. I think we get the best solutions for citizens and businessmen if the municipalities get the freedom to decide the most for themselves. This follows the Government in many fields, including: by transferring the decision-making authority for subsidies to the agricultural cultural landscape, economic and environmental measures in forestry and forestry planning. Municipalities are also given decision-making powers in most cases under the concession law, the forestry law and the divisional matters under the law. As a result, the Government demonstrates both trust and expectations for the municipalities. Yes, I would be so free to say that we are actually following up the good left-wing slogan «More Freedom – More Responsibility» in practical policies for the municipalities. To meet the national and international challenges, structural changes and improvements in efficiency are needed throughout the production chain. Developments over many years have led to a decline in the role of traditional agriculture in rural and housing policy. The buildings need more legs to stand on. We need to have a policy for all types of business that have the common ownership of the farm and the construction as a starting point. This work has been combined in the Agriculture Pluss initiative. It is an objective that resources released must be deployed in new market-based productions of goods and services. It will also involve a more active business and housing policy for agricultural properties that will not have traditional agricultural production as their primary function. Exploiting renewable natural resources is a major potential. Agriculture and forestry have a central place in the development of new renewable energy sources. In the budget, the Government has made an increased effort to increase the value creation of bioenergy. The aim is to increase the supply and use of bioenergy from agriculture and forestry through the development of a commercial concept in which agriculture can be the total supplier of bioenergy solutions. The government has a strong focus on industrial development, and the ability of research communities to commercialise research results will be given particular attention in the future. Increased innovation requires a more creative interaction between educational institutions, research communities, businesses and individuals. The objective is to ensure sustainable resource and property management with a high level of soil protection, the maintenance of the cultural landscape and the preservation of biodiversity. One of the main priorities of the draft budget is an agricultural policy which contributes to the achievement of these important environmental tasks. I'm glad the committee supports the work of adapting the number of pure to the grazing basis. It is important in terms of the environment, but also in view of the fact that sustainable reindeer management is the basis for maintaining Sami peculiarity. The government, through the value creation programme, will be committed to increasing the value creation from reindeer management. Both traditional further processing and use of by-products and other niche products must be further developed. The government's commitment to the Rein drifts resource centre will be an important contribution to facilitating jobs in and in connection with reindeer management.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e598	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e601	The Councils of State dealt with both the national and the international challenges we face. The WTO is the biggest challenge in our view. Many believe that much will change, including for the food industry. Some media claim that as much as 50 pst. of our production may be lost. Does the Council agree with such a description? How and in what way does the Council of State naturally see the Stortinges being briefed on developments that are now taking place after the Cancún break?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e606	Let me start with the last one. It's so that after the breach in Cancún, there's been some confusion about what's happening now, and what's really the consequence of it. During the next few days – on 15 December – it will be a new important meeting at the Ambassador level in Geneva, which is trying to give a further course. No one has expectations that there will be a decisive meeting. There will be a summary of the status, where we are now, and what can be the basis of a further progress plan. It is also expected that the environment will be working on this, that by February the process will have to be back on track again. Otherwise a lot of time could be lost. It is interpreted as being a consequence of the fact that there are elections in the United States, and that it will deprive Americans of considerable freedom of action. Of course, the Government will come back to the Storting in order to get the necessary back coverage for the steps the Government had to find it necessary to take in the WTO context. It is impossible at this stage to begin to indicate what the consequences will be for Norwegian agriculture, other than that there will be demanding negotiations ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e613	The councils were in on the food law. It also implies that, among other things: Europe's highest meat levy, which makes 10,000 jobs in the meat industry more unsafe. This industry is likely to be burdened with a number of other things in the coming years, for example: that you are no longer allowed to use CO in packaging gas, which will increase the price. The margins in this industry, at least in parts of it, are so small that they can't take this in by reducing them. They have to increase prices, which then go against consumers. I would like to remind you of the Sem statement, which states that the government would work for smaller price differences. In the VG on Saturday, there was a quality directive. You can import e.g. Danish salami to Norway, which do not have the same quality requirements as Norwegian salami. It also means that fat, which is cheaper, and which can be more common in Danish products, causes a distortion of competition. What will the Council of State do with this quality regulation in order to achieve a level playing field?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e622	It was a big and comprehensive introduction to this line. As a starting point, I would like to say that we have a large and comprehensive food industry in Norway based on the raw materials of agriculture. We have as long as we have extensive agriculture in Norway. There's a part that turns this pyramid a little bit upside down, and says that the bearer here is that we have a big agro-based industry, and that it's a little bit more random where you can get the raw materials for it. To understand that there is a community of fate between the agricultural industry and Norwegian agriculture, one must also understand how difficult and special Norway is in agricultural terms. It's not like the representative Hedstrom said in his main post, when he talked about other countries it's natural to compare with. It is quite difficult to find it in the agricultural field. We have to use that situation to clean what we can be very good at. And what we can be very good at, when we're so far from the markets and so far north, is having safe food, safe food and clean food, and in every way offering food of the highest quality. We have good assumptions for that. That is the basis of the food law, and that is the basis for our legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e629	The councils were concerned about this with bioenergy in their posts, and he pointed out that there was a significant investment in bioenergy. We're happy about that. We do not agree that there is a significant investment in bioenergy, but we record that there is something more to bet on. At the same time, we know that there is a problem today that Norway is growing again, especially from deciduous forests. You spend a little bit of money in that area. Money for forest cultivation, and also for planting so far, has fallen sharply in the last two years. The question to the Council of State is whether he does not see the need for us to have a more offensive forest policy, where we take out more of the work that is in the forest and translate it into bioenergy, and that we get a much heavier bet than what is being put up to today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e636	Yes, I believe the government does, because it is investing in bioenergy to an extent that we have not seen before. In part, this is market driven. We saw what the prices last winter led to. Now it is invested in bioenergy equipment around among Norwegian forest owners and farmers to an extent that we have never seen our husband. As a result, the supply of bioenergy is growing, and there is evidence that demand is also increasing. Could we have had an ambition to increase bioenergy, for example. With two TWhs a year in the years ahead, we would thus be able to get close to a thousand new jobs around Norwegian districts. We would be able to significantly improve the energy situation in the country, and we would get obvious environmental benefits by taking out more deciduous forests and other forests. And maybe we could have converted some things, for example. from oil to bioenergy, which would bring significant environmental benefits. The representative Ryan has said something important today, that bioenergy is a cheek egg: it means jobs, environment and energy, and it must be good for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e643	That sounds great.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e646	The Minister of Agriculture is quite right, and I fully agree with that, that agriculture-based industry and agriculture are totally interdependent. It says from the government parties that one wants a consumer-oriented agriculture, and then one has to ask questions about the funding that you are now raising regarding the new Food Safety Authority. The government’s original proposal was over 90 pst. the financing of fees by agricultural operators. The government parties and the Workers' Party are now in agreement on 80 p.m. fee financing. When one says that one wants a consumer-oriented agriculture, is it really consumer-oriented to contribute to increased food prices? This could be the consequence of the kind of funding of government tasks to which the Government should contribute. Does the Minister of Agriculture think that it is a wise strategy to contribute to high prices and thus perhaps to shed light on the dissatisfaction of different price images between different countries, which one else can see?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e654	Let me first say about food fees, which will be adopted by the budget decision today and the law decision in a few days' time, that the government is putting in its order to about 76 p.m. tax financing, and the Stortinget provides a ceiling of 80 pst. This applies mainly to meat, where one will now pay the same food fees as one has had to do so far for other food products. Meat has been a kind of free passage. There has been a special arrangement of meat inspection on the meat line, which has been expensive and demanding in Norway, with many spreading slaughterhouses, and on which we are working to find good solutions. What I want to say is that we have a consumer-oriented agriculture precisely because we have such a strong commitment to food security. That's good for consumers. Price is not all for consumers – I think it is important to stress it to the representative Marit Arnstad – there are also other qualities that consumers are willing to focus on, among others. having safe food. The fact that we now have competition in many more areas of agriculture that offer more brands to choose from is also consumer friendly, and is not so strongly represented by past agricultural policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e661	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e664	In the Workers' Party, we are committed to a policy that provides a basis for a viable and sustainable agriculture throughout the country. It's going to be demanding, we also see that, not least from the challenges associated with the WTO. Although the texts in the WTO may seem disturbing so far, in the Labour Party we believe that Norwegian agriculture will in future be based on a national agricultural policy, i.e. a slightly more market, but still a lot of policy-driven Norwegian agricultural development. The background is that agricultural production achieves a number of other social objectives in addition to producing food. We don't think that a future agriculture will be able to maintain our entire housing pattern in the future, but it will play a crucial role. In particular, the processing of food production will be very valuable jobs. And these jobs are of great importance. We have seen that there is great rationalization in both milk and meat processing. Both for those working in the food industry and for people in many municipalities, there is great concern that these jobs will be lost. There is also a lot of focus on soil protection and cultural landscapes. Not least, we believe that the peculiarity of Norway, with farm use almost everywhere, is a tourist attraction in itself. It is valuable for Norway to look like this in the future. It's not obvious that it's going to be like this. As it says in the budget, it now turns out that the area that's built up is much larger than what you've thought before. The budget shall state: ‘If developments do not reverse, the basis for national food supply in the long term will be severely weakened’. With a cultivated area of 3.5 pst., where the food soil is 2.5 pst., the area must be kept in claim, so that one day we are not without the opportunity to feed our own population. Today, the degree of self-sufficiency is already down to approx. 50 pst. It is important to ensure that consumers receive safe food of the right quality and to provide adequate nutrition. We fully agree with the Government that the goal must be to 10 pst. the agricultural area shall be managed organically by 2010. The Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, also refers to the cultural landscape issue and asks the Ministry to assess whether it would not be appropriate to have its own knowledge centres in this respect. A new and coordinated approach, in cooperation with the State's agricultural administration, should be developed in this area, and we believe that it is natural that a person might look at the problem in this regard. For agriculture with a high focus on the quality of food production, research and development are very important. Here, both the SND and the value creation program are of great importance. The budgetary agreement involves cutbacks in grants for projects in the field of plant processing and reproduction. There is no doubt that important jobs in the districts may be cut off and, therefore, in the vote, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, asks the Ministry to consider measures to minimise the impact of the cut. The Committee is grouped together in a note highlighting what is happening on the forestry side. It's worrying how little planting is now happening. Not least, this has become worse since the removal of grants for planting. Put a little to the top, it's so that the area is ready for planting, while plants from the nurseries are thrown. In addition, we have many people who are out of work, and who could take a roof to do something about the situation. It is therefore appropriate that the entire Committee considers it important to ensure the proper supply of seeds and plants, which will enable forest plants to be housed in the future. The majority ask the Ministry to return to these matters in the context of the revised budget for 2004. I think it is important that we continue to focus heavily on the problem. It's going to be exciting to see what Agriculture Pluss is developing into. As it is added up to today, we think it is good for municipalities, within a national agricultural policy, to have a room where they can actively operate in agriculture as well. Some money and a law where the municipalities can get a greater chance to decide for themselves, I think it will be good. In that case, I fully agree with what the Council of State says in that area. Although a majority in the UK has decided that the municipalities are not required to have agricultural competence, we hope that the municipalities see it as important to continue to retain their competence, either under their own control or in cooperation with other municipalities. It is also the case that the most active municipalities will receive more funds. An overall committee asks for an evaluation of Good Norwegian. The size has dealt with many issues related to Norwegian food production, both animal protection and food law, while developing new food products on both a small and a large scale. There is also a trend towards slightly aggressive labelling that directly misinforms consumers. That is why we believe that an evaluation in this area is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e697	The President hopes that the Council of State will not be distracted by the rock concert on the outside here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e700	I'm interpreting it as a jubilee to the budget we're discussing, but it might be something else. The 2004 government budget is a sober budget, and it is a good budget for business. It is a good budget because it provides the basis for continuing low interest rates, moderate wage developments and a competitive crown price. The last year has shown how important this is. International low economic activity, high Norwegian salary levels, high interest rates and strong exchange rates have hit Norwegian businesses very hard. The government has responded systematically to efforts to improve the competitiveness of industry. Since the 2003 government budget was presented, Norway’s Bank has reduced interest rates from 7 to 2.5 pst. The difference in interest rates between Norway and the euro area countries is virtually eliminated. At the same time, the exchange rate has declined. Lower interest rates alone mean NOK 20 to 25 billion in lower costs for Norwegian companies. For the fisheries and farming industry alone, the krone threshold means an annual improvement of DKK 2,5 billion. Last week we got happy numbers from Aetat, which shows that the far too high unemployment is about to level out and is even on the way down. In other words, it starts to shine in the Norwegian economy. Norwegian industry regains competitiveness, and optimism is on its way. Thus, the financial structure responsible for the government’s implementation in 2003 has produced results. The continuation of this policy in 2004 is the main contribution we can make to competitive enterprises across the whole country. At the same time, in a still difficult situation, it is very important not to impose additional burdens on businesses through tax increases. We who are in politics today are politicians in the country of opportunity. We have the opportunity to succeed, and we have the opportunity to fail. We're at a crossroads where we can choose between three main directions, as I see it. We can repeat the policy of tax increases, the construction of the public sector and thus the reduction of competitive business. It is a policy that increases dependence on fluctuating oil revenues and makes us unprepared for the day when oil revenues are reduced. We can also choose to pursue an expansive fiscal policy. This is a policy in which all good wishes are fulfilled, wishes which, on their own, are aloof, but which, together, undermines the credibility of economic policy. There is a line where wage growth comes out of control, where interest levels and exchange rates again increase, and where Norwegian companies will again lose in international competition. The last option, which is the Cooperative Government alternative, is based on the recognition that values must be created before they can be shared. This option combines a responsible economic policy with a reduction in the tax burden on businesses. Together with moderate wage developments, this provides competitive framework conditions, more equity for new investments, high-growth enterprises and more jobs. Industrial development is characterised by increasing internationalisation, rapid technological development and strong international competition. Globalisation offers great opportunities, but also major challenges. High-cost countries such as Norway will increasingly experience the establishment of traditional labour-intensive production in low-cost countries. At the same time, Norway is competitive in knowledge. If we are to ensure a high level of well-being for future generations, we must therefore take advantage of our advantages and develop an innovative and knowledge-intensive business. A fundamental issue in industrial policy is therefore how we can facilitate more innovation, more new products and more creations. As a first step towards finding good answers to these questions, the Government has recently presented the first complete innovation plan for Norway. The vision is that Norway should be one of the world’s most innovative countries, where businesses and people with ongoing and creative skills have good opportunities to succeed. On 1 January, the instruments of the Norwegian Export Council, the SND, the Norwegian Tourist Council and the State Inventors’ Guidance Office are merged into Innovation Norway. This will strengthen the focus on entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises with high growth potential and will enable Norwegian enterprises to cope better with international competition. And everything indicates that the ambition of Storting and the Government to do this from 1 January will be able to be implemented. The values created in business are the basis for our entire well-being. Good framework conditions for enterprises and measures stimulating creativity are therefore a cornerstone of government policy. Through better framework conditions and a comprehensive innovation policy, the Government is systematically working to strengthen the competitiveness and innovation of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e726	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e729	In the last few days we have read a number of interviews with a jubilant Inge Ryan, who has been getting something he himself has long wanted. But I also expect that the Minister of Industry has had a hand in that agreement. The working party has also participated in the comments. But I am concerned, because in the evaluation report on the cereal regime we can read: ‘In the densely populated Eastern region, which also has several significant research environments, there has been no investment since August 2002 in new projects despite their existence. In some of the regional funds, investment has been made available during the same period.’» In the case of the agreement concluded between the Government Parties and SV – otherwise a paradox – it means that while the Workers' Party and the Government Parties have moved by 10 million. kr, SV moved and the government parts of SEK 400 million. kr. My question is: how will the Minister of Industry follow up the evaluation of the cereal regime in relation to what has now happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e743	Let me first say that at least I don't worry that there are members of the nutrition committee who are enjoying themselves – there are enough people walking around worrying. The seed funds that have been adopted, which we are working on with the device, for which we are examining the possibilities to raise private capital, and which in the next round must be notified in ESA, will be designed in accordance with the Stortinge's intentions, decisions and not least the remark that is actually in the position we have today, as an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, is behind. We must – as far as possible in the real world – implement it. There is no doubt that the creation of these funds in particular intended to support business start-ups, to provide equity in economically weak areas. It is a premise that will follow this work «to the bitter end».
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e750	I want to follow up on this with different fund constructions. In the context of the debate on the throne, a proposal was adopted with the support of the Government Parties and the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider different ways of making Norway’s capital strength a competitive advantage for Norwegian competitive business, including possible fund structures.’ The Progress Party has long been committed to the identification of a so-called Structural Fund, including: may enter mature Norwegian companies in the event of restructuring. Will such an investigation also address the possibility of setting up structural funds when the Government does this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e762	I am familiar with the decision that the Stortinget has taken, which is in the investigation of fund constructions. Let me say it so that I think it is primarily in the extension of a review of our pension plans that you will be able to attack this really broadly. It is clear that what the Stortinget has ordered us to investigate must be investigated, and we know that there are parties in the Stortinget that have been particularly concerned with establishing so-called structural funds. I am so much less surprised that there are some people who are concerned about this, but that the Progress Party is particularly concerned about it, surprises me. I thought maybe that after Opseth had gone out of Stortinget, Hedstrom would also settle in this area. So it hasn't happened. But we have to consider the proposals we get from Stortinget, even though I personally have no particular belief in the kind of fund where politicians are going to sit and go into industries called'mature'.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e769	The Minister of Industry says that we are politicians in the country of opportunity. I agree with the Minister of Industry. But then we see that in the countries of possibility, more than half of all municipalities experience relocation, and an important part of the relocation is because they do not have jobs. My question is: what action does the Minister of Industry intend us to take so that we can take advantage of the entire ‘country of opportunity’ and prevent the relocation that is taking place today, especially in relation to jobs? In the end, I just want to say that I very much appreciate the Minister of Industry's clarification that you want to follow up on the comments from the Workers' Party, the government parties, the Centre Party and SV regarding seed funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e779	Yes, it's a fact -- I don't dare say it's been going on since the war -- that in the last quarter of the century has at least about. Half of Norway’s municipalities experienced a real decline in the settlement. There has been a policy in Norway in the same quarter of the century, which is probably unparalleled — compared with other countries — has added large amounts of money to the districts to try to counteract this, and so it has not been successful. I believe that one of the main reasons why you have not – to a greater extent – succeeded is that there has been too little focus on establishing profitable jobs. It is impossible to imagine that if we do not have the power to establish profitable jobs, we can achieve the Storting's goal of living in the whole country. That is why I am so pleased that the representative Ryan has repeatedly pointed out in connection with the Seed Fund that there are profitable jobs we need in the districts. I think that's what we need to make people live in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e786	This is a government that still needs to be instructed by the Stortinget, and which is still allowing itself to go after the hairs of the Stortinget. The net pay case has moved back and forth in Stortinget every six months, and now the Government has again been forced to grant the money to the Workers' Party. The district billion that one got through with the SV last year took on a rematch in the budget in the autumn and made it a nationwide scheme again, then pushing it back into a district-based system. This leaves an impression of a government that really does not want these district-oriented instruments, which really do not want net pay, and which is now actually going to blow in the decision they made together with the Progress Party. That means that one here has to ask some questions that do not end up in an answer such as ‘as far as possible in the real world’, but that one just gets a guarantee here today that: the district scheme becomes a district-based scheme with a breakdown of 70/30 between the country and the private sector, which is particularly important when the scheme is now to be targeted at economically disadvantaged areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e806	Yes, the Center Party does not deny itself. Here I tried at least to say that we have to create a system that is possible to implement in the real world. Even that's not enough for the Center Party. Then you have to wonder what the world you're going to be in. There is a note that the government parties are also involved in, which says that to the extent that it is not possible to do what is stated in St. prp. No 1, i.e. to obtain a 50/50 distribution between State and private capital, it must be possible to open up 70/30 distribution. I think that might be a reasonable solution to get this implemented at all. And what Arnstad's representative tried to create the impression of being linked to district funds and non-district funds, district billions and nationwide schemes is not right. The four regional seed funds are in the State budget, in St.prp. No 1st@item: I don't expect that if you're standing in, you're going to get all the details, but to the extent that you say the opposite of what's said, you should at least have checked it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e815	The Labour Party took note of these comments on changes in these district funds — there is no question about it. But I did not get a response from the Minister of Industry instead. The nationwide seed fund, the START fund, is now empty – all the money has been spent. How will the Government follow up the areas in Norway which, on the SND map of areas for regional policy instruments, are white, i.e. the east and the large cities, etc., which now have no means at their disposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e822	The representative of Fossli is right in saying that the seed funds that have been referred to as this district billion that the Government concluded an agreement with the Swedish Government had some geographical limitations, meaning that there are some areas that are white. And the map of regional policy instruments – over the so-called ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’ areas – does not cover all of Norway. At the same time, we have started an evaluation of all the seed funds that we have. It's both to see to what extent it's been successful, and whether the constraints we've set have been the right ones. Let me put it this way: we also need to make an assessment of the representative of Fossli, that there will be some white spots on the map that will need funds perhaps at least as much as areas covered by the district billion for seed products. In this respect, of course, we need to return to Stortinget – both in terms of equipment and, where appropriate, in future budgetary proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e831	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e834	It is a bit touching to experience how enthusiastic the government party and the Labour Party are for each other – at least in the verbal part of this debate, and in the debates that have taken place. I notice that they help each other change lines, and so on, and that's interesting! It is also interesting when the leader of the committee says that he disagrees with Jon Lilletun, who said that a good budget was better. Olav Akselsen said it was a poor budget that was better. If you do an analysis of it, that means we still have a bad budget! That's what the Labour Party says. In fact, I agree with the Akssen that there is a poor budget, even though the poor budget has become a little better seen from the Labour Party's viewpoint. We see extra properties in the health care system. We see an increase in taxes and taxes. One has made it worse for employers when they are liable for the permeability to be paid by the enterprise. And then one tries to make a point that one has gone from 30 to ten days, but the reality is that one has gone from three to ten days. Right, the government proposal was to go from three to 30 days, but to boast that one has gone from three to ten days, is going to be incorrect. One has not managed to get that difference, and it is not good business policy. It is not active enterprise policy to impose more burdens on business than it already has. As I said, it is interesting to note that the Labour Party says that we have a poor budget. Right, it also makes it quite clear when they say they are so happy for the agreement, and they are happy that it was the Labour Party that was the Budget Party this time. Interestingly, the one who might most strongly confirm this was the Right-Representative Ivar Kristiansen, who in other words is pleased that we have received tax consolidation in 2004! He's trying to make it so that we've got $20 billion in taxes in the last two years. Yes, but there are, in fact, a good number of billions left to be taken into account in the 2005 budget, whether the Sem Declaration is to be believed in. Now the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party has said that the Sem Declaration is dead, as representatives from the Right say it is okay, and that they are very pleased, a budget that actually means, realistically and effectively, increasing taxes and taxes in 2004. Then Ivar Kristiansen says that business is happy. I can refer to two-three business leaders in More and Romesdal. Two of them are members of the Right. Steel Rasmussen reported itself out of the Right due to the business policy of the Government. Gunvor Ulstein, Managing Director of the Ulstein Group, went out with harsh criticism of the innovation policy of the Government that emerged in the Innovation Communication. Another industrial leader wanted to sign up to the Right in order to have the party's industry policy make it happy. I don't know if the different parts are so accurate. When it comes to Structural Funds, it's not about being political leaders. They should be professionally run and assist the same business. Of course, it does not seem to the Minister of Industry that what is going to happen in connection with IT fornebu now seems to be coming to an end. Otherwise, I record that the Minister of Industry defends that not a penny of the new Seed Fund will benefit business throughout the country, that it is only outside the central strata that will get a penny to create a new working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e851	I will spend 5 minutes talking about one of the smallest framework areas covered by the Stortinge, namely that part of the budget of the Ministry of Fisheries for which the Trade Committee is responsible. On the last day of 2002, it was on the front page of the Fishingblad in large, bold letters: «Dramatic descent». It was the prediction of the development of the Norwegian fishing industry for 2003. It would turn out to be a prediction that struck in many ways. We've seen a lot of bankruptcies in the Norwegian fishing industry this year. We've seen that the fleet link, especially the coastal fleet link, has reduced its revenue by up to 20 pst. We have seen challenges for the farming industry that have been so special that one now sees a restructuring process that is a few years since we last saw, with large ownership concentrations. It was supposed to show that the fishing blade was going to get right on the way in its prediction that 2003 would be a dramatic downturn. For SV, it makes sense to think that if 2003 was a dramatic downturn, we need to use tools to ensure that 2004 will be a year of positive development for the fishing industry. We have provided for this in our alternative budget. But I have to say that when I see the attitude of the majority in the nutrition committee to this budget, that's not what's going on at all. In my opinion, the fisheries budget has been reduced to almost an administrative budget. Of those, a little over 400 million. kr that we distribute, goes 250 million. SEK 75 million for the Directorate of Fisheries. kr goes to the department, 70 million. kr is used to condemn the vessel less than 15 metres, half of which is financed by the industry itself, and after the Workers' Party made a settlement and took 10 million from us. NOK 14 million is left for the Committee. kr that we will allocate to welfare stations, Finko, information on marine mammals management, replacements and marine innovation programmes. We should also have had a little bit of innovation and that kind of action in the industry. It goes without saying that it doesn't work. So the majority of these money goes to purely administrative measures. That's what I thought was a little special, with the government we have today. The posts we have in the Department of Fisheries are small, but they mean a lot. After the number of requests to sample, it means a lot to people along the coast. Finko is an example. So the Fisheries Competence Centre doesn't get any money and it's probably going to go down. Safety training for fishermen who are not in our framework may receive a few cents from the Church, Education and Research Committee, but mainly the fishermen themselves will have to finance this. Fishermen's welfare stations have received 500000 kroner in relation to 3 million, after the agreement with the Workers' Party. kr, which was the proposal of the SV and the Centre Party. I would like to quote from a letter that we have received from Norway's Fiskarkvinnelag: ‘Fischers and seafarers who are away from home for long periods need to have a good place to go when they land. At welfare stations they can relax, read newspapers, get mail from home and have social relations with other fishmates.» Welfare stations are a cultural bearer along the coast. I think it's a little special that one in the agreement with the Labour Party has removed 2.5 million. kr from welfare stations, when we see at the same time that one in another framework area within the Ministry of Economic Affairs has added 2.5 million. kr, it was well, for newspapers to Norwegian seafarers. I thought the kind of move of small funds is a little special. I think it's very sad that a takeaway from the tiny frame area that fish actually is, and redistributes it that way. Much has been said about the fisheries agreement in this Chamber. From 2003 to 2004, the fisheries agreement almost halves in terms of pure money when we exclude structural resources. I actually thought it was quite eye-catching when the industry and fleet are as assembled as they are, and when the industry, FHL, says in a letter to the committee: ‘This is about taking responsibility for an entire industry that is struggling to adapt to an increasingly difficult international competitive situation. In this way, the aid agreement can be said to be a small contribution from the State to a more or less non-subsidised industry’ — that is an important point — ‘to offset some of the competitive disadvantages we have in continuing to fish, produce and export fish from Norway’. That has been a point for SV, and that the fisheries agreement seems to be halved has been the main reason why we have not been able to promote any proposals within the framework. I've come across a number of signals coming from the Right. I have understood that the representative Kristiansen will not answer our question about right is willing to look at the frame again. But I very much want the sitting government to look at the framework of the fisheries agreement. The fishing industry is an industry almost free of subsidies. So that's 50 million. kr it's about the next year. I would like one to look at expanding the frame in connection with the revision.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e879	We have a budget that facilitates work for all, increased value creation, fair distribution and sustainable development. With regard to fisheries management, sustainability is a key word in order to take into account both fish stocks, nutritionists and coastal communities. A profitable and sustainable fishing industry is a prerequisite for coastal value creation and employment. The continued well-being of the many coastal communities while managing fishing resources in the most sustainable way is therefore crucial for the management of fisheries policy. In relation to the budgetary process, we have this year greatly appreciated the way the budget came into being. Thanks to the Workers' Party for this – without games and specs, but with calmness, business and accountability. I think all parties should be proud of this. In the business committee, the budget has also been brought into line with the smoking practices we have carried out within the given framework. However, I would like to point out a matter I think has had an unfortunate outcome. This concerns the case concerning grants to welfare centres for fishermen. This matter was settled in the ‘large’ agreement if the budget was cut by 2.5 million. kr. These funds were to be used for the sub-financing of welfare stations for fishermen, run by the Norwegian Fisheries Team, the Internal Maritime Commission and the Norwegian Maritime Association. In our internal food budget, we were only able to get back in place 500,000 kroner to these welfare stations. This is in no way sufficient, and we are therefore keeping the matter open towards the revised national budget for spring. However, we are pleased that the Government is reviewing the existing welfare arrangements for fishermen with a view to maintaining the quality and level of these schemes. It will be very important to have a close and good dialogue with the organisations involved in the fishing industry in relation to this work. So a little bit about the fisheries agreement and the structural fund. In the negotiating proposal from the state to Norway's Fiskarlag, which led to a breach, the state's last bid was 85 million. kr. Of this, 35 million was. kr is intended to be set aside for the structural measures for the coastal fleet. In the case of structural measures, these amount to 35 million. NOK 50 pst. the division between the State and the industry of the Structural Funds. This I am pleased with, not only from the treatment we had of the structural message here in our house, but in the interests of the coastal fishing fleet as a whole. Although the breach is a fact, it's important that the 50 million. kr is best managed and prioritised. The need for feeders is great, and we want funds to maximise the take-off of sales. It is therefore important that the Government closely monitor developments in the use of funds and, if necessary, return to the Storting if the situation so warrants. We've heard a lot about the King crab, and it's not possible to get under the chair that we're anxious and worried about the possible consequences of the spread of this species can have for the ecological conditions in the Barents Sea and along the Norwegian coast. Nevertheless, we have confidence in the work of the Government, not only in relation to research in this area, but also in launching the necessary measures. It will, of course, take some time before we can see the final consequences of these measures, but this work is very important to continue with. It's good that the quotas are increased, and it's good that the authorities have been accepted to lower a western limit. I also hope for free fishing for crab south-west of the Mager Island in the new year. It is important to have control and stop the crab’s descent down the Norwegian coast. I believe that the work being done in Vadsø in this connection is of great importance. So a few words about the Directorate of Fisheries, which was going through a strong tightening of the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party. The Ministry of Fisheries shall ensure a profitable and sustainable fishing and aquaculture industry, focusing on increased value creation, regulatory change and service for users. In order for the Fisheries Directorate to be able to maintain its objective in the current situation, it needs to be turned over to all stones to find ways of possibly further streamlining. What surprises me is that the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, SV and the Centre Party – and in particular the Workers' Party, which is co-responsible for this cut – also provides a detailed instruction that makes it difficult for the Directorate to make the necessary efficiency improvement that is a consequence of this cut. The Christian People's Party believes the Government is following up the decision made in Stortinget, and we believe that the Fisheries Directorate with its cut of 5 million. kr knows the best way to manage these funds. Besides that, I have no comments on a good process.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e894	In the Ministry of Industry's budget, the major issue this year is the establishment of Innovation Norway. Although this name is not advertised in the budget, the Committee has agreed in another document that this name should be the new name of the innovation and internationalisation company that will start from 1 January next year – an exciting case, and one in which most of us in the Storting have great faith. We wish them every success in their establishment. When one starts such a big effort as one does in the new company, one should have had much more money to invest in. Unfortunately, this was not the case when the government presented the 2004 budget. But the agreement with the Workers' Party gave something more, even though I admit that we would like to have even more. We've concentrated on some of SND's programs. We proposed a 60-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. SEK in research and development contracts, 10 million. kr for continuation of the programme to upgrade our ship's fleet, i.e. The NOx reduction programme, which contributes to the upgrading and reduction of marine fleet emissions, including: ferries, cargo and fishing vessels. Furthermore, we added 80 million to the nationwide innovation scheme. kr. These would include: used in culture-based business development and for Innovation Furniture. Innovation Furniture included the Workers' Party in the budget for approx. a year ago, and got a majority for this. We are pleased to have this included this year, so that the three-year programme can continue, and that we can have a furniture industry that is even more innovative and can meet an international market in an even more offensive way than before. Culture-based economic development became a new SND programme area following the revision of the national budget in summer. And then we added 5 million. kr. This led to many exciting applications to SND. A total of 231 applications, representing a total of 75 million. NOK, come in to this 5 million. kr. This has told us that more money is needed here. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposed adding 20 million. NOK more in 2004, and that is now agreed, which we very much appreciate. Of the 20 million. However, the majority of the Committee, the Workers' Party and the Government Parties, amounting to 2 million. kr for an equally exciting project, a project called Norway Now, directed by Music Export Norway. We have a number of good musicians in Norway who act like musicians here, but who would like to show their knowledge abroad, and that's what they get through an exciting project that Music Export Norway stands for. That is also the majority in the committee. We also moved 5 million. kr after the agreement, so that we can raise the travel life effort even more in the new Innovation Norway. Travel life is an industry that can be combined with other exciting projects. We believe that by getting tourism into Innovation Norway, there will be a far greater chance of spreading in different areas, and creative thinking can contribute to even more jobs in the tourism industry, along with, for example, culture and industry. We have a lot of faith in the travel industry, and the increase of 5 million. kr should actually be even larger. So a little visit to the seed schemes also in my post, even though I have been within it a bit in succession. So, as I said, the Workers' Party is involved in these comments, and we have great faith that something is going to happen. At the same time, as an Austrian representative, I have to say that I am a little concerned about the Eastern region, but I got a little more reassured when the Minister of Economic Affairs said that he would look at the evaluation report for the Seed Scheme and come back to Stortinget. But it'll be a year without any special means to the area. An example is Kampfhus–Kjeller in Akershus, where we have the Institute of Energy Engineering, which researches, among other things. on wind power. Windmills are a string in this way, so the windmills built in Verdal have been researched in Trondheim and Akershus. It has given jobs to Nord-Trøndelag, but the research funds should come to Kjeller. So briefly about the new Food Authority, which we look forward to establishing. But as someone has said in their posts here, it's going to be expensive for the industry. It worries us. The Labour Party added 100 million in its alternative budget. kr to reduce the cost of the industry. We did not get a majority for that, but in some sharp remarks both in today's document and documents to be dealt with later this week, we said that we are going to follow the expenses of the meat industry/food industry with argus eyes, and hope that the government will manage to reduce those fees as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e909	I note that many in the fishing industry are now much more optimistic and expect 2004 to be a better year, not least because the government’s economic policy has produced results. A tight fiscal policy and a generally good industrial policy framework have proved essential for an international and competitive industry such as the fishing industry. However, 2002 and 2003 have been very difficult years. The government has taken and is now taking more action to further strengthen the competitiveness of the fishing industry and the ability to increase value creation, thus securing jobs on land and sea. In the autumn, we have tightened up practices on the conditions of supply of cod trawls, primarily to ensure the processing industry as a backbone in many fishing waters. During the winter cod fishing we saw that capping and capping unfortunately contributed to a large volume of unprocessed primary raw material being exported. Yes, in fact, the industry gave away value creation and exported jobs from the fishing industry to the foreign processing industry. It's a policy and a practice that the Government wants to change. So periodicisation and overregulation did not produce the desired effect. To remedy this, we have announced for next year an increase in the use of vessel quotas in the coastal fleet. Hopefully, it will provide more equal access to raw materials and more full-time operations in the fisheries industry. But here it's up to the industry to take responsibility for profitability and employment. Furthermore, we have opened a testing system whereby industrial farms owning trawlers can use local coastal vessels to fish all the trawler's quotas. It is in order to ensure the raw material base for key enterprises, which are key actors along the coast. That is why we have also opened up the possibility that companies that both own land installations and trawlers can now relate to a limit of ownership of seven quota factors per year. installations. In order to better adapt the fishing fleet to the resource base, a Structural Fund was established in the summer to provide vessels under 15 metres of access to a voluntary mastering system. In the budget, we have proposed 35 million. NOK to this. With effect from 1 January 2004, structural quota schemes for the coastal fleet of more than 15 metres shall be put in place and operational arrangements shall be put in place in three counties as a testing scheme. Next year we will then assess the appropriateness of the structural arrangements for the fishing fleet. These are all measures that the industry is asking for. In fact, some people are now very active in putting into practice schemes that they received recently. However, in 2004 we will place great emphasis on, together with the industry, looking for solutions that ensure better raw material access and distribution to industry throughout the year. It is to strengthen the long-term market-making opportunities of businesses, and it is important that we create mechanisms that ensure better capacity utilisation in industry, and not least mechanisms that can contribute to a better financial strength and flexibility in each enterprise. The State and the Norwegian Fisheries Team did not agree on an aid agreement for the fishing industry for 2004. When the breach occurred, the last claim from the counterparty, Norges Fiskarlag, was 200 million. NOK but within the framework of the 50 million offer from the State. We will be able to continue important schemes such as guarantee tickets, leadership grants and support for self-afraid. The breakdown according to the agreement will then be made after its adoption by the Storting, but it is clear that within the framework which is lower than that of the year, it will not be possible to continue absolutely all the arrangements at the same level. On the other hand, we are financing, for example. RUBIN is now outside the fisheries agreement, and with funds that we can transfer from 2002 to 2003, EUR 50 million. kr is in practice a higher amount. In the last year we have given a lot of attention to the aquaculture industry, again to improve profitability. In the current year, we have released new salmon and trout concessions. We have established the bankruptcy regulation and introduced NYTEK, which is the standard for safe havens. Fortunately, the salmon agreement has been terminated, but the new trout case shows how vulnerable the fishing industry is in the Union market. Furthermore, we have warned to phase out the feed quota system, precisely in order for the industry to take greater responsibility for balancing supply and demand, and we will have a new production system established. So I'm pleased to record that this year's 50-new concession round tells about an emerging optimism in the farming industry, because there are almost 90 companies that have applied for 140 concessions, that is. Almost three times as many concessions as we have to distribute. It shows that it was right for the government to make such an offer to the industry. Many people said the industry would not accept it, but I am pleased to record that it did not. The Committee has comments relating to the Directorate of Fisheries, to social arrangements, and I get that back in the lines, if that's desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e936	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e939	I have understood the Minister for Fisheries there that he has been committed to withdrawing the grant to the Centre for the Competence of the Fisheries Industry, Finko. The working party included this subsidy in its alternative budget and also tried to put it in place within the framework of the Committee. But the government parties were against it. Then my questions are: what kind of evaluation has the Ministry done about the impact of Finkos' work before proposing to cut this grant? Is it Finko's quality, or is it the government's principle attitude that is why it has not been possible to get this grant in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e944	I am pleased that a budget agreement was reached between the Workers' Party and the Government for next year. In that budget there was no proposal to continue Finko. Neither did it for 2003. However, just to achieve a liquidation period, in 2003 I contributed to a certain amount of funding. But as early as last year, for this year's budget, it was stated that the industry would assume a greater responsibility after the government has used approx. One hundred million. kr for the Fisheries Competence Centre. I'm a little surprised that the Arnesen representative argues strongly to continue Finko, but not prioritised it when we jointly created the budget that exists. So I take note that the majority in the Grand Duchy has not prioritised it, in accordance with the proposal made by the Government earlier this fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e951	We decided to structure the fishing fleet in the spring. We now experience that there is a lot of desire to make changes to some things. It may be specific to the operating arrangements. We now experience that Nordland Fiskerlag has a loud voice that means that you want to get into this operating system. It was those who were the strongest against it when this system was out on the ears, but now they want to go in. To repeat it only: the party of progress wanted this operating regime to apply to the whole country. My questions to the Council of State are: Is it possible to open even more test groups, e.g. Northern countries, where this is the case, or can a full step be taken immediately so that the operating arrangements can apply to the whole country? When does the Council of State see that this can be implemented at the earliest opportunity, with today’s decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e956	The proposals that we presented to the Stortinget, which the Stortinget adopted this year in relation to structural conditions in the coastal fleet, were highly controversial politically. I am pleased that a majority in the Stortinget supported them. What we now see in retrospect, after the Storting has decided it, is that the industry is increasingly giving its support to them. Yes, not only that – those who were strong against, for example. the operating system, now asking to be allowed to participate in and participate in it. I think this is evidence that the industry and politicians have realized that there were good and necessary arrangements that the Government put forward. With regard to the voluntary operating arrangements, it was a wish that we should introduce them for the whole country. I listened to the political advice I received, not least from the industry, and we proposed one state. The Storting extended it to wood, Finnmark, Troms and Sogn and Fjordane. I feel that Storting has not opened up to a general opening. That's why I can't include any more counties, but I've taken the goal of introducing them from 2005, if it's successful. If the Storting wants to implement the scheme for the whole country, I am open to do so, but then it is up to the Storing to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e963	I'm recording that the Council of State spends about one fifth of its contribution talking about the budget and the rest of its contribution talking about fisheries policy or else. That might not be so strange, because the budget we have to deal with is, as I said in my post, very little. It's very small in terms of the challenges we're actually facing. I also note that the Council of State in its reply to the representative Arnesen says that he is satisfied with the agreement with the Labour Party. I understand that, because it was not a big one to get. I have a very specific question for the Minister for Fisheries. So we're going to find a few food policy instruments in this budget. One cannot call it a bet, and the fisheries agreement, which is the largest area, is, as previously said in the debate several times, actually halved in relation to the level of the year. What the Government offers is an increase in fees over the Food Authority and in relation to the brand register. I wonder if it is entirely in line with the Right's industrial policy to offer the industry additional taxes, but no industrial policy instruments for return.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e970	It is almost, if I may say so, frightening that a central member of the nutrition committee has not found that in the budget presented by the Ministry of Fisheries and the Government, there are a number of strong instruments related to the fishing industry. I show you, among other things: for research and development. There is a significant effort to create values in the industry. I refer to the significant investment in coastal management, which is an important instrument for developing the fishing industry. If you look at only the part of the nutrition committee, which is actually the smallest part of our budget, you will be politely notified in relation to the needs of the fishing industry for framework conditions. In addition, economic policy is one of the most important means of increasing the value creation and profitability of industry. Therefore, the industry also says that there is good hope that we will now have a turnaround in 2004, not least because of interest rates and developments in the price of the crown.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e977	We must be aware that it will probably be a part along the coast and in the marine industries that will not entirely share the last reality description to the Minister for Fisheries. Whether the Senterpartiet or SV had accused the Workerspartiet in a line change not to bet on Finko, it would have been okay. But that the Minister of Fisheries chooses to accuse his own conciliators of not prioritizing what they had in their alternative budget, to which the Government has obviously said no, I think is a rather perceptive way of walking out of the problems. Is it the case that they intend to do the same with part of what is now in the fisheries agreement that they chose to do with Finko, that one here is to bet on transferring funds as a kind of extended winding-up of some measures? Is it possible to say something per. today on what is actually to be reduced under the fisheries agreement, what measures are actually to be reduced or eliminated next year in relation to this year, simply because there is less funding for this item this year than before?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e984	This year's agreement, which is well known, is 50 million. kr. In addition, 35 million. kr related to structural measures. When the breach occurred, the requirement was 200 million. NOK, and we saw no possibility of reaching an agreement. This year's agreement was 70 million. kr. Gradually, additional funds were added through transfers and revised national budgets. The 50 million. kr to be allocated now shall be allocated on the basis of an overall assessment. As I said in a previous post, of course, 50 million will. kr do not extend to the same amount as 70 million. kr. On the other hand, we want to continue the priorities which the Committee also makes visible in its position. We're going to get back to that. But the 50 million. Thus, kr can be covered by the transfer of unused funds and by other means of financing measures that have been under the fisheries agreement in the past. And if you take all of this into account, you're going to have 92 million. kr, including the structural measures, for distribution over the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e989	It's going well, says the Council of State. He boasts of what he has received. He wisely said little about what he has not received. He uses the industry as a witness and as an alibi. He said little about another description of reality, that the industry is struggling, as others have said something about earlier today. The claims are made on the coast that the Ministry of Fisheries is disengaging. The Ministry of Fisheries will not take responsibility. The measures to be taken shall be food-financed. I share those claims far along the way. My question to the Council of State is: What does the Council of State think of such claims? If the Council of State believes that the claims are wrong, what will he do to bring out the truth about the claims?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e998	It is a fact that the industry as such is more optimistic for 2004 than it was for 2002 and 2003. If you close your eyes to it, you're kind of insensitive to what's happening in the industry. But, as I also said in my post, 2002 and 2003 have been very difficult years. There are complex reasons for this. One of the reasons is that we have had very low quotas in the 1990s. This is because we have an overcapacity in both fleet and industry. There we've taken a grip. It is linked to a very high interest rate and the price of the crown, which has been detrimental to an export industry. Among other things, the government's economic policy has helped the fishing industry to expect a positive contribution of DKK 2.5 billion only because of the economic policy associated with the improvement of the krone price. Then there will always be political disagreement as to whether the measures are good enough. But I am pleased that the Labour Party and the Government have agreed on a budget that also includes the Ministry of Fisheries budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1006	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1009	The Labour Party's draft budget would, in my view, have been the best alternative for business and jobs throughout the country, but when it was not adopted, the budgetary conciliation is the second best. I am pleased with the improvements that resulted from the conciliation, in relation to the Government's draft budget, both in terms of workers' rights and the business environment. In the many consultations held by the Economic and Social Committee during this budgetary process, very many have pointed out the need for a tight budget to secure jobs. The Workers' Party has been ready all along, which had hardly been the result of any other settlement party. That being said, it is with a certain bismach that you look at the current budgetary position. I think it's very sad that we didn't get the government parties to save the Fishery Industry Competence Centre, Finko. Finko recently won a great international prize for his work, and from all over the country, there has been strong impressions about the good and important job that Finko is doing. I am not proud that we, as thank you for this effort, are doing this significant work. I want as much as I can, once again recommend to the Government to show the will to find solutions to continue Finko. They know that they then have a large number in their back. I am glad that money is allocated to fishermen's welfare stations, and that there is agreement to review the scheme. I hope that this review can result in an even better and more stable offer in the future. In the case of the fisheries agreement, it is agreed to give priority to the very important management premium scheme. This will also ensure opportunities for smaller coastal communities at a time when facilities on land have become far apart. The size has previously given unanimous signals of increased take-off of the cell. Of course, this also means that there must be money for the purpose. Therefore, the Government is asked to follow closely the use of funds from the fisheries agreement and to return to the Storting if the situation so warrants. On the part of the Workers' Party, we are convinced that the State must continue to be active in the future in order to ensure the special place of the fishing industry in the field of food and district policy. This responsibility cannot be waived by the State. As far as shipping is concerned, I am pleased that the Workers' Party, through the budget agreement, was able to bring back the 270 million. kr that the government had not got in place, despite the decision of the Storting last spring. I note that an overall committee acknowledges that today's shipping experience stagnation and confusion by the number of ships in the fleet falling, the number of seafarers being reduced, and by the wear of yard and equipment suppliers. I also note that an overall committee is committed to maintaining Norwegian maritime industry, and that the industry will in the future have stable and predictable framework conditions that are more in line with the countries with which Norway competes. This must mean that the Storting is taking the consequences of the situation when the Storting is being addressed with the forecast of shipping, which is due to arrive in the spring, and that the necessary decisions will then be taken to address this situation. From the Labour Party we believe that a further extension of the net pay system to new ship groups must be very central in the processing of the notification, so that we ensure that Norwegian seafarers can continue to work on Norwegian ships in the future. Let me also say that I hope that this big message will not be a narrower shipping message, but that it will also focus on the ringing effects of shipping on the shipbuilding industry and on equipment suppliers and on other activities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1045	We have a farm in Norway that is in strong transition. The biggest challenge is getting a job in the industry. Agriculture has been greatly more efficient and has become increasingly robust. I am pleased with the signals coming from the department to continue to develop agriculture. What was said about Agriculture Pluss, I have a great faith in and great optimism attached to it. We also have major challenges in relation to the WTO negotiations. The government is doing a good job here, balancing well the offensive and defensive positions that we have to take. The district billion is the result of an agreement between the SV and the government parties. There are some in this debate who have tried to present it as if it is somewhat half-hearted about the way we go into the new Seed Fund. It's not like that. I am pleased that we have got this fund in place, and I am sure that it will have a good and sensible device. There is also reason to recall the option, which could have been a structural fund in the tens of billions class, which, in my view, would have jeopardized future pensions. We notice optimism. At the hearings held by the Committee in connection with the budget, several of the business organisations expressed their satisfaction. What were they satisfied with? Well, first of all, the government has the power to conduct an economic policy that in turn has led to a lower interest rate and a weaker exchange rate. This year it has not been easy to look business leaders into their eyes and say that the most important thing is to pursue a tight budgetary policy that will yield a lower interest rate, because we knew it would take a few years. That's why it's all the better now that we see results of it, and that we can see a clear optimism in business. The NHO has expressed its opinion, including: In the context of budgetary consultations, surveys carried out among member companies conclude that they believe that there will be more employment next year. We also see a positive trend in unemployment going downwards. The representative Aksenssen used in his post expression as the big business policy, in the sense that we conduct an economic policy that makes us as a nation competitive. The background to a budget agreement with the Workers' Party is that we have a fairly similar view that in order to have a competitive business, we need to stay within a tight framework. I'm glad we got this deal in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1065	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1068	There's a lot of ways to describe reality, we've heard that before, even here in the Storing today. For me, which is rarely on the Storting and otherwise has relatively limited contact with the central apparatus of power, the points are most relevant. Example: On page 41 of the setting, a brief description of the cap appears. 1040, Fisheries aid and structural measures, which have also been mentioned earlier in the debate. It's a small economic matter, but it's very important to the coast of Norway. The government is promoting a 50 million-dollar framework. kr. The proposal is promoted after there was a break in the negotiations between the Norwegian Fisheries Team and the State. In comparison, the real available framework for 2003, after transfers from previous years, has been around Ninety-six million. kr. The Council of State talked about transfers from this year to next year. As far as I'm aware, there's almost no transferable funds, everything's been used up. The President said earlier in the debate that calling a decision on a roll-call issue is unparliamentary language. So I'm not going to do that. I must nevertheless be allowed to say that the Government's proposal appears to be a planned matter. As you have to understand the Government, the limits of 50 million will not. I have to say, Mr President, that I am not in favour of this report. The government has its reality, the coast has another! The size is good with numbers. The size realizes that a cut of 96 million. kr actually to 50 million. In fact, it is dramatic and will have to have consequences. It is not possible to make room for the measures and arrangements we have had this year within a framework of 50 million. kr. I see that there is no more money in the committee after the examination. I could've regretted it if I wanted to, but I shouldn't. I think it is positive that the different majority of the Economic and Social Committee have comments on the Government's proposals. It is not about the introduction of transfers and subsidies, as the representatives of the Progress Party in the Committee claim in a minority comment. The industry is free of subsidies. The funds available under the aid agreement have been used in recent years to lubricate — in order to use such an imagery — part of the wheels of the fishing industry. I perceive the different majority of the committee to believe that the government's offer of lubricating oil is too poor, both in terms of quantity and quality. I can't see how the government can avoid coming back to Stortinget with this budget line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1081	The Minister of Economic Affairs was given the opportunity to be a little merry at my expense in relation to the expression ‘as far as possible in the real world’. I guess he'll have to let us be a little liberal in these Christmas seasons. But it's clear that the world of so-called reality can stand out differently, depending on whether it's in Oslo 1 or for example. in Røyrvik. And part of the discussion about cereal seed is about it. Otherwise, I must be allowed to say that I stand firm by the fact that this government has not been able to trust in following up the decisions of the majority in previous contexts. The net pay scheme is perhaps the most explicit example of that. The majority of the population have consistently made decisions that the government has done all it can to turn away. The Permitting Act is another example, where the bulk of the population decided one thing, but gets a completely different response and a completely different response from the Government than the one in the decision. It's not so dangerous for the bulk of the population, but it's actually a problem with business, which is thus experiencing predictability that they don't deserve. They experience unforeseeability by the fact that decisions taken in the process of enlargement are not respected in the manner in which they should be respected. That is what is at the heart of the Central Party today has addressed to the Minister of Industry, namely that now there can be no more back and forth around the funds allocated to seed funds. Now it can't be that the government comes back to the next budget and proposes something quite different from what they agreed with the bulk of the population on the previous crossroads. If you use the concept of regional funds or nationwide funds, you go for one thing. But there was no doubt that those parties, and not least the Socialist Left Party, who have the strongest ownership of this proposal, were not very pleased when the Government came back with its proposal in the budget this autumn. That is why there was also a need for the negotiations that have now been held. Therefore, my point is that now the government cannot make any more curvature jumps, now one cannot try any further explanation related to this matter. Now, district funds relating to seed capital must actually be followed up, and now one must also follow up on the fact that a majority of the committee clearly states that there should be a key between State and private capital at 70/30. That's a point the centre party thinks it's important to get to the end of this debate, so we're not just going to make fun of each other's expense, but that we're actually going to stick to what's the reality of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1088	I will briefly mention two things from SV. Firstly, when we have not affected innovation in Norway in our posts, it is because we are going to have a separate debate on that Thursday, and we choose to save the views and considerations of that debate. The second thing I want to raise concerns a proposal from the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party, where I have promised to clarify how we stand. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a separate case on the conditions for aid from the Seed Funds in which the State’s share is increased to 70 pst.’ We have a comment that we have said that we are going to try out this scheme with up to 70 pst. State and 30 pst. private financing in connection with the regional funds. SV wants us to gain experience with this first and see if it works before we go over to 70/30. That is why we will be voting against that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1100	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1053]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1116	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party 10 minutes each, Center Party, Left and Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1127	The Ministry has proposed relatively large changes in the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Trade for 2003. However, the Committee considers most of the amendments to be technical, or as a result of previous decisions. Many of the changes in the budget are due to currency changes. This, which one should initially believe was a relatively straightforward matter, and on which there should not be any debate, it nevertheless turns out to require a debate. And that's thanks to a collective opposition. This comes primarily from the Workers' Party and the Progress Party's desire to add billions of dollars to new equity. The Government Party's view is that the amount of such dimensions will require careful action and no more ad hoc urgent decisions. The members of the Committee of the Right and Christian People's Party point out that the Government is dealing with key issues in this context, such as: the management of relapses, competition in the power market and ESAs to ensure that Norway remains within the EEA Agreement in these areas. The Minister of Industry and Trade has warned that they will bring a case of State power before Easter next year. So it's hard to see what's going on like this. In spring, there was also a proposal to add 10 billion kroner to new equity. The foundation was then among other things. that Oslo municipality had its owner in Hafslund advertised for sale – or a power company that until the merger with Viken a few years ago has always been privately owned. Nothing of the disposal of the Municipality of Oslo was now its owner's part. This time it is, among other things. investment opportunities in the German gas distribution that have been used as a justification for the introduction of new equity capital by Statkraft. Those of us who read German online newspapers could read yesterday that Statkraft has not reached the competition for Eon's owner parts in Verbundnetsgaz and EWE. In Norwegian newspapers, however, we can read today that Statoil has chosen to sell out of the same company that Statkraft wanted to buy. This last one must be a crosshair for some people in this room. In any case, this does not, in our view, weaken the requirement that the introduction of new capital into State power must be subject to a serious and defence procedure. State power is a very important company in Norwegian power supply and will continue to be so in the foreseeable future. But Norwegian power supply is more than State power, although it does not always work like that in the political debate. Finally, the case-speaker will draw attention to an inaccuracy both in the plural proposal from the Committee and in the minority proposal from the Progress Party. Both proposals should be worded as follows: Cape. 950 State ownership management Item 91 Return on equity Statkraft [[new]] The way it says it now, it looks like a cap. 950 names Add equity, and that's not right. I would also like to know that the government party is going against the minority proposal from the Progress Party, and against V and VI in the plural setting from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1157	Then the President has recorded the clarification made in relation to the inaccuracies in the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1160	I shall limit my comments to the question of State Power. State power is Norway's third largest company. Stat force has a value equal to 10 pst. by the petroleum fund. State power is Norway's second largest power producer. State power is in reality the only Norwegian company that plays a role in the Nordic energy market. The size has been discussed several times and has given support to Statkraft's strategy. The size has determined that Statkraft should become a leading player in the Nordic market and that the company should be a leader in renewable energy sources such as energy. wind and water power. These Biggest Goals require capital. There's a big restructuring in the power industry, and to be there, one has to have the money to make purchases. But new investments in new capacity require capital. Among other things, building wind power costs money. The state power situation today is making the bet that Stortinget has previously said that we want in this area, impossible. The company needs capital, and in order to achieve the objectives that the Stortinget has previously raised for the company, the company has a number of times given this type of capital to it, by the spring of 2001. There has been a great deal here in the Chamber about the role of State power to play. The exception is our Right and Advance Party, which has the aim of privatising this company – preferably as soon as possible. These parties have previously also spoken out against capital replenishment. Now it looks as if the Progress Party has changed its vision. Of course, I am happy about that. What I'm less happy about is that it looks like they've also changed places with the Christian People's Party, which in this game doesn't set up as they did before. I interpret it so that here Christian People's Party has sacrificed an area where they have previously had an offensive vision. While the Storting and previous governments have had great ambitions for Statkraft, it seems that the government, with the Minister of Industry at its head, has only one ambition, simply to show that the state is a bad owner. I must say that the Minister for Economic Affairs has been very close. It is now almost two years since the Ministry of Economic Affairs itself informed the Storting that they would come up with a matter of state power. This was to happen during 2002. This item has not yet been added. Over a year ago, State Power applied for capital restocking. They have not yet received a reply. Non-compliance with State guarantees and non-compliance with agreed exchange policies has led the company to a situation in which they cannot follow previous merger decisions. The company does not currently have the economy to participate in the restructuring that is taking place in Norway and the rest of the Nordic region. On the other hand, Statkraft's foreign competitors have filled up their wallets. Statkraft also has no money for the necessary initial investment in Norway, which includes: has enabled them to put their plans to play an active role in building up wind power, in the drawer. The size has previously been the goal of building 3 TWh with wind power by 2010. This objective is totally unrealistic without Statkraft's participation. In June this year, the Stortinget decided to ask the Government to recapitalise Statkraft in order to strengthen the company. This decision has not been followed up by the Government. Part of the motivation behind the decision in spring was that then one of the largest Norwegian power companies, Hafslund, was for sale. In order to be Norwegian providers too, we in the Labour Party thought that some measures were necessary. One of those measures was capital restocking in Statkraft. Such a refill could enable the company to pay for this or other Norwegian company that would come to the sale. As of today, there is no large Norwegian company that has been put out for sale. The government has now announced that they will bring a case on Statkraft's situation in the autumn of the new year. The equity situation in Statkraft will be an important part of that matter. We in the Workers' Party will then examine and evaluate the question of additional capital restocking. The Labour Party has long been committed to Statkraft being the most important tool to curb foreign ownership in the Norwegian hydropower sector. This will still be the case, but we also realize that Statkraft alone cannot do that job. We therefore need to focus on the role of regional companies. We also wanted to assess whether the state can directly play a role in caring for these interests. This is a model we have had great luck with on the Norwegian pedestal, where the state through the SEDØE is actually the largest owner. I said in the introduction that Statkraft is one of Norway's most important companies. I agree entirely with the case spokesman that this company should not be treated through a Document No. 8 proposals or the way the multiples are doing. The problem is that the Government has not given us an option. They've promised to come up with things, but they've always been late to do it. In the meantime, the problems for the company have turned up. That is why the Government must take responsibility for the fact that today the Storing chooses this form of capital restocking. For us in the Labour Party, it is important that this big company does not become a political caste ball. It's a responsibility that we all have. That's why I have chosen to be mild in tone in my post here today. Because if I had said what I actually mean about the way we have behaved towards this company, I think it might have made it harder to obtain a deal in the future. Now it is such that the government has notified a matter of state power. The Labour Party will have an ambition attached to this treatment, namely to be able to create peace in this area, to have a deal that will enable the company to know what they have to comply with, and not as they are, as they meet each state budget with great concern and concern. But if one is to achieve the deal, the Labour Party cannot contribute to it alone. One also depends on others to set up. I would like to remind you that the parties that used to be the plurals and support whether the strategy we have chosen for Statkraft still has multiples in this room. I hope that the Right does not take advantage of this opportunity to try to get through what is their policy, because they are therefore responsible for minority policy in this area. I hope that the Christian People's Party will make an effort, that they will stand by previous decisions and thus help us to re-establish peace around the company, thus giving them the opportunity to do the job that Stortinget has previously said they should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1190	Good ownership implies that you want something to own. It's about Statkraft as well as other ownership. What you own is in danger of being confused if you don't put into life the guidelines for good ownership you confess. This is repeatedly stated in the ownership message, which was dealt with in Stortingen a year and a half ago. Predictability and long-termity are keywords. Unfortunately, Statkraft is the victim of incompetent ownership. The adopted dividend policy is not complied with and the Board’s requests for clarification of the equity situation are ignored by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Progress Party has previously proposed that the company be listed on the stock exchange. With other owners in addition to the country, ownership will be professionalised, for the benefit of the company and for the owners. Unfortunately, this request has been ignored by the Government. It is remarkable that this has been programmed by the Right. It is very difficult for a company to have owners who do not support adopted strategies when the company is involved in strategic negotiations with other actors. Alliance construction is important for the energy nation of Norway. The Minister of Economic Affairs seems to be more concerned about providing the company with stumble threads than being actively supportive. In an article in Today's Business on 3 November, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of State, Odd Vanvik, writes: ‘The owner is now undermining the company and making our jobs unsafe’. He goes on to say that when, for several years in a row, a dividend has been paid by the company, which results in an increasing level of debt, and the company's ability to have the necessary robustness is weakened, this is seen as a major danger signal. 95 pst. dividends of two years in a row mean that it is necessary to push for the implementation of the necessary projects in order to have a fully upgraded production apparatus. At the same time, the company is entrusted with a number of sectoral policy tasks. State power, like all other companies, needs predictability and a capital structure adapted to the objectives of the company. The Progress Party therefore promotes its own proposal for the introduction of capital into State power. This proposal is identical to the amount adopted by Stortinget in June, i.e. NOK 10 billion. We note that the parties we were with on this decision in June are now submitting a proposal for a lower amount – NOK 4 billion. This is far from the amount the company applied for on 18 December last year, namely to increase equity to NOK 12 billion. The reasons given to the Statkraft Board of Directors are that the position of the company in both the energy and financial markets is significantly weakened after the State has left the guarantee liability by amending the State Enterprise Act as of 1 January 2003. This has led to a change in the rating of the company from triple-A to triple-B+. This represents a dramatic deterioration in the competitiveness of State power as regards the establishment of partnerships in strategic alliances and as regards the possibility of debt financing, e.g. in the case of further international expansion. State power is now among the weakest rated energy companies. Solidarity and predictability are very important in such a capital-intensive industry as this. Therefore, it is urgent to put the framework conditions in place, so that State power can emerge from a situation of uncertainty and changing assumptions. Only in this way can the company be guaranteed the ability to earn on behalf of the owners – the Norwegian people. The Council of State has announced that there will be a matter of State power in the spring session. We are very uncertain about what will be proposed in this case. It is very difficult to see any coherence in government policy in this field so far. The objective must be to strengthen the competitiveness of State power, thereby achieving the Stortinge objective of at least one competitive Norwegian player in the northern European energy market. The energy sector is important for Norway. It is essential to maintain and further develop Norwegian competence and jobs in this part of the energy sector. The energy market is undergoing very rapid restructuring and consolidation in the Nordic countries and Europe. That is why action is needed now. We believe that Statkraft must be given equivalent conditions and the same space of action as its competitors. At the same time, the Government should commit itself to spreading the ownership of Statkraft, so that the State is no longer the sole owner. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1221	The representative of Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1224	Also, in my article, I want to spend the time on Statkraft. There is no doubt that the Storting is a demanding owner of State Power. We have, together with the Government, waved a good deal back and forth, which makes it hard for Statkraft to deal with changing signals. I think we have to take in all of us, all of the parties, that we have to tighten up, so that we become a much more predictable owner, not just in relation to how much dividends we take out, but that there is also some sustainability in it when we give signals of capital supply. When Hafslund was to be sold in ours, probably parts of the Stortinget were marked by a little panic. There was a fear that Hafslund might go abroad, and there came a so - called Document No. Eight proposals, which were dealt with very quickly in Stortinget. In retrospect, I would say that I think we would have liked to spend a little longer time on it, but it is easy to talk about what has happened. We'd better look forward, and I'll do that in my post. I think that, in the future, we have to decide what we want with Statkraft. We in SV are very pleased and look forward to the debate that will come about when the Council of State presents a matter of State power later this winter. If we want Statkraft to become a heavy international player, we are talking about quite formidable sums. 10 billion is going to be a modest amount if you're going to become a heavy international player. Then we probably have to multiply that amount times 10, maybe even more. There could be one choice. Another option we can take is that we say that State power should consolidate the position in Norway, comply with what the Competition Authority has said, sell a little down and consolidate the position. Then there will be a completely different need for capital for State power. Then we can also make a significant dividend, and they can use their resources to care for the facilities they already have today. It may also be a third way, that we want State power to become even more leading in research and development on new renewable energy sources, moving new roads, towards solar, towards wind, towards wave and towards bioenergy and other energy sources. Considerable resources are also needed to become a heavy player in this area. But all of these matters we come back to later this winter, when the Council of State presents the matter of State Power. We in SV now choose to pay NOK 4 billion to Statkraft, sail if we said in June that they would get NOK 10 billion. We justify that we have taken a tough yield from Statkraft, which in the last three years has been in the order of well 4 billion kroner higher than what we have said, and we are now bringing some of this money back to Statkraft, so that they get a simpler everyday life when they're going to do their priorities in the future. But we are also prepared to discuss this matter more closely later this winter, when this matter is resubmitted. For our part, there is one side to Statkraft that I want to mention today as well. That's what ownership is. We're very concerned that it should be a 100 pst. State ownership of Statkraft. We see that the model we have today, with a state-owned company, is a good model, and we hope that it can continue. An AS in itself is no accident, but an AS is a first step on the way to fragmentation and partial privatization, which we do not want at all. That is why we are also critical of the possibility of reorganising Statkraft into a limited liability company. Otherwise, we're concerned that we need to be even more good at profiling the green profile that Statkraft has profiled by, that they're going to be leading within that field. But then we have a number of other public owners in Norway, some county and municipal e-works. It is also important that we make provision for them to be able to make purchases when other public e-works, private e-works, or Statkraft sells off, and that there are some Norwegian heavy operators who actually have capital to make the necessary purchases. That's also one thing we have to include in this dimension. I'm not going to spend so much more of the speaking time, but just point out that this is a very complex matter. The matter of state power is a very complex matter, and at least from our side we will spend a lot of time on it when it comes later in winter, so that we get a complete and thorough treatment of State power, and that the policy is then firm, so that we get rid of this wingling that the Storting and the Government have contributed to the recent past.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1250	The Christian People's Party believes that Statkraft is an important public administrator and energy actor. I also believe that this organisation and this company provide a public security for basic services for people around the country. Therefore, we support the structure of government debt today, and hope it can continue into the future. We are not so pleased with the initiative that a negative plurality of pluralities is taking place here in the United Kingdom today, and we note that this is a violation of the agreement we have entered into in the budget. We think it's unfortunate to draw out a case this way and not give it a defensive treatment. When you also look at the different recommendations that lie here, with either $4 billion or $10 billion, everyone should understand that what's going on in the Storing today is random, and it's a bad treatment of a case that would require a more serious treatment. When you look at the conditions on which one is assigned these means, there is a great deal of uncertainty about whether there are restrictions in relation to Statkraft today. All in all, I think that the treatment that the plurals put up here today is an expression of an unculture, that a state company should have a shortcut into the state treasury, and have one too easy access to financial resources, which other, more privately run companies, can never get into the vicinity of. Unfortunately, I feel that the last generations of their way of running politics through public companies are getting worse at what one of them is doing today. It is not in this way that a future business will be driven. It also comes in a strange light when one is told that the company to which Statkraft officially wants to have capital restocking is now sold, and that another Norwegian company is now leaving a company in which Statkraft reports an interest, and has a low level of competence and little experience in this market in which the company also operates. There are so many questions that I feel that the majority today are almost ignoring or not taking into account, that it is difficult to respect what the majority will do today. If one also looks back at the last capital add-on to Statkraft from the state's side, I feel that one here should put an even bigger question mark. It was simply in competition with the energy company Light Kraft from my region, who wanted to expand its territory to include Agderfylka. So one had a chance to get a company that could to some extent compete with Statkraft in Norway, but the result was that one used last capital refuelling in competition with another Norwegian energy company to prevent them from getting that position. In the next round, the Competition Authority came and said that because Statkraft used his position and bought up Agder Energie, one had to sell itself into other energy companies, in Hedmark and in Trondheim. It's, in my opinion, a very poor use of public resources, and it's a weakening of the development capabilities of other energy actors in Norway. So I think there's every reason to wait for a serious answer to this question. The government has promised that one should come back to Stortinget with this matter before the New Year – in a serious way, even after contacting ESA, so that we can get proper conditions for any capital restocking. In my opinion, the conclusion must be that it would be unwise to go to the minorities for their crackdowns both when it comes to the size and purpose of the capital stock, and rather to see it in context and to have a defence procedure. It's Statkraft on fire, and it's Norway on fire.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1265	The centre party did not agree with the proposal to grant NOK 10 billion in equity to State Power earlier in the year. One of the reasons for this was, among other things: the assessment we made in relation to possible purchases in relation to Hafslund, and to the wish for a wider treatment. On the other hand, we agree with today's proposal to increase the injection of equity by NOK 4 billion. I can agree with those who say that this may be an unusual procedure, and not the ideal procedure either. Nevertheless, the Central Party believes that this is absolutely necessary in view of the behaviour of the Storting itself has opted for Statkraft in the last two years. It is those who believe that we should have taken better time to deal with the matter, as has also been pointed out by previous speakers, and that we have waited a long time for a matter of state power's future. The store asked to get such a case two years ago, and it has still not arrived. It is possible that it has not arrived because the Government is not quite sure whether it will get the Advance Party on what the Government prefers, namely to convert State Power into an AS, possibly partial privatisation. It could be. It is difficult to speculate in it for other parties, but the matter that the Stortinget has asked for and has been promised has not come to the table. In the meantime, in two cases, the Government has proposed a State Power dividend of 95 pst. So that means you take 95 pst. of the profits held by the company, entered into the treasury. You don't do that because the Norwegian state lacks money, but you do it because you have a budget balance that is so sacred, that instead of risking more oil money, you choose instead to take such a huge profit from a state company, so that you can say that you don't spend more oil money. What you're actually doing is using oil money; the effect is going to be exactly the same. The pressure on the Norwegian economy will not be any less, and it will have no effect on the Norwegian economy other than an increase in oil money consumption. But to get away from the discussion about increasing the use of oil money, you choose instead to take a profit of 95 pst. of the profits of a state company, which, in my opinion, is in line with an occupation. That is what we all have to do inwards, because neither the Centre Party's alternative budget for the autumn is exempted from that assessment. But we all have to take inwards that this way in which we treat Statkraft is not very solid and not very long-term either. The centre party has taken the consequences of this by also supporting the proposal that is being promoted today. We have taken the consequences of this and say that once the company has been deprived of almost the entire profit for two years, this is the opportunity to strengthen the capital injection to the company and avoid even greater indebtedness in the company. It is in a way one patch on the wound you can give in relation to the company, so that the state does not fail on all points, as a solid owner. I believe that the majority's comments today must be seen in this context. Now, if these are different notes from different parts, it's not like these are cracking notes from a minority. The proposal of DKK 4 billion is today, after all probability, adopted by a majority in the Grand Duchy, and then one must also accept that the Government will follow up the actual decision to grant it. The centre party also considers that there is reason to look at the sum of the actions we have taken towards State power. They no longer have the same creditworthiness because the State has left out of its guarantee liability. We have not pursued the dividend policy we have adopted. The government has two years in a row aged its budget with a dividend policy that is completely hairy, rather than daring to take the debate on increased use of oil money. We have also created uncertainty in the company regarding the discussion about AS and what the Storting will actually do with the company in the years to come. It is obvious that there must be a debate within the Government on this which may not yet have been concluded. I think the company will soon expect the political authorities to decide here too. At least the centre party is not in doubt. We believe that Statkraft has a reasonable function today. It should also have it in the future, and it is best taken care of by the corporate form we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1282	I believe that today's debate really fully demonstrates the need for the Stortinget to get a case from the Government that takes into account all aspects of State Power's future activities and organisation. With shame to report, very many of the attacks that arise here from the opposition and from the majority against the Government are of a rather backward nature. Without my wanting to go as far as the representative Ryan did in his speech, by suggesting that the June decision to grant NOK 10 billion was struck by panic, I follow in many ways more of Ryan's reasoning. Ryan was present so far when the decision was taken by the respective parties, so he might know what kind of mood it was in the respective forum. Nevertheless, I believe that you now have to look forward. One has to consider how to organize the company further, what kind of economic muscles to equip the company with, and not least, and in terms of the figure of DKK 10 billion that was reached in June, I would say that infrastructure in Germany is no longer a current issue. We have seen that the Hafslund case is out of the world as a current issue. We see, as many people have been concerned about, that in the case of wind power, etc., the planning is not as bad as it is described from the pulpit today. There are actually plans for a larger number of TWh up to 2010 than that which has been the ambition of the Storting. I think you're going to be pretty careful about presenting Statkraft as a company suffering from economic breathing difficulties. It's one of the most economically prosperous companies we have in this country, with an economic result in these times and an equity that's better than ever. Therefore, there will be a need to take a round in Stortinget on this matter, and it will come in two to three months, so that we can look at all aspects of Statkraft as a company and its future. That's why it doesn't make sense to say that the problems just tower up in the company, and you say that there are unsafe jobs in the company. This does not belong in today's debate. I have to be allowed to say that I look forward to the day when some parties perform to show the same limitless kindness to other companies, as they now do to Statkraft, by fighting to grant the majority of billions to the company, almost without knowing what the money is for. It should only be lacking, when you have the ambition to equip State Power with economic muscles in order to compete in the international market, that you have to phase out some of the issues that need to be solved further on the road. That is why I fully share the conclusion of Mr Ryan, who, to the extent that the representative Mr Gedrem was also involved. I think we all have good reason to look forward, in the interests of the company itself, to having the opportunity to deal with the matter in full in the spring of 2004.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1300	The tone of the representative Akssen could be interpreted as meaning that the noise level should be kept at a decent level during these Christmas seasons. That is what has been done. I'm recording what's probably going to be adopted, and the premises. As far as I can see, there's none of the comments that the bulk of the population is behind completely, but there are common points of contact somewhere. But that's also to some extent a different point of view. As I see from the comments, there is a slightly different perception of what you think is the background to the decision you made in June, and what you have now come up with. There have been questions – there was a representative who mentioned it – about the Government will follow up today’s decision. Today's decision is a budgetary decision, so there is no doubt that the Government will follow it up, of course we will. We come with a complete review of Statkraft and the things that it is necessary to clarify to Stortinget, before Easter. But I want to say as a general starting point, which has general relevance, which is not just about Statkraft: it's like there's no company – whether it's a whole or a part – that has a cut-off card for filling out equity, either the owner's name is the state or something else. It is also the case that when a company promotes an application for capital restocking, one must act until further notice as if one has not received capital restocking and does not make provision for only one exit from that restocking. That would be particularly unwise! It is also such that it is up to the Government to make decisions on the refusal of capital. When it comes to participating or not participating in issues, it is that, to the extent that you are positive about it, you have to have it magnified, of course, because then you have to have a budget decision. I am fully aware of that. I don't think that this is the way you've been doing it for Statkraft's interests either. But I note that the decision the Stortinget is making today is primarily justified on the grounds that they want to recover the negative consequences of the decisions the Stortinget has otherwise made, linked to taking dividends. I don't want to go as far as Ryan's representative did when he suggested that the Storting has done something about panic. I assume that the Storting doesn't make decisions in panic. But in the case of a case that implies billions of dollars in appropriations, there is no doubt that in the future, as it has been in the past, it would be wise to have a proper investigation. I want to put that forward so that the Storting can get an overall assessment of all aspects of the Statkraft case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1317	The President will only have stated that matters which are being prepared by the Committee and which will be put to the vote in the Stortinget, so far from having anything to do with 'panic'. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1322	I really didn't intend to take the word, but the post from the council provoked me. He said that there would be a separate matter in March. It was actually reported that the Statkraft case should be addressed in the context of the revision, but for some reason this has now been pushed forward. When we dealt with the ownership message almost two years ago, there was a committee that wanted to get one when it came to the organisation of State Power. So it's been a very long time, and we know that one month in terms of force is an incredibly long time. Can we now assume that the capital issue is also clarified in the matter brought by the Government to the Stortinget, whether you choose today's organisation with a capital injection or a reorganization with elements of private owners who contribute capital? Will this question be clarified next to the other questions that the Government has promised to clarify, so that Statkraft, Norway's third largest company, can clarify the framework conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1331	The answer to the question asked by the representative of Hedström is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1336	I share enough of the Council's assessments on the need for a comprehensive review of the state power situation. But it is quite obvious that it is worrying that several years in a row a profit is made from a company that is as large as it has been done, both in the previous year and for 2003. My question to the Council of State is: Is the dividend policy that the State has recently practiced against Statkraft, something that the Minister of Industry would recommend to the rest of the economy of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1343	That was an interesting question, really. I have to say that in principle I believe that you should stick to the guidelines you have drawn up over time. The size has drawn up some guidelines. But the Storting deviates sovereignly from those guidelines when determining dividends. Otherwise, when it comes to how much dividends you can take out of a company, there are no numbers that are right, and no ones that are wrong. Zero could be equal to 100 pst. and 150 pst. It depends on the idea you have with the company, the equity situation of the company, the strategy you have, the debt burden and other aspects of the case. In terms of taking out 95 pst. dividends for two years should not normally be a disaster for a company. After all, the rate of return in itself has not been decisive for the impaired rating. There is a lapse of state guarantees, of course, that have done so, as we had the state that was behind and therefore triple A in the case of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1352	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1357	I shall not contribute to the extension of the debate. I'm not going to raise the noise level either, but since it's been suggested here that some people have acted in "panic" at an earlier point in this case, I'm going to be told it wasn't the Labour Party. When it came to proposals for capital restocking this year, it was after a Document No. Eight proposals from the Workers' Party, which were well thought out, and which were based on the situation in which both State power and the power industry were at that time. It is also the case that this fits in well with the measures we have taken in the past to help Statkraft to do the tasks and to play the role that the majority of people in this room have repeatedly said the company should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1366	I wasn't going to take the word several times, but since the word panic has got such a big place in this debate, I guess I have to say that when I expressed that it was an atmosphere of panic, it's possible we put a little different opinions into that term. I perceive that Hafslund was to be sold, and that it was Finnish or possibly other foreign buyers ready to buy Hafslund, led to a completely different way of dealing with State power than one would have if Hafslund had not been available for sale. That's what I put in the term 'panic': there was a situation that caused some people to throw themselves around and act a little faster than they would otherwise do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1376	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 1071]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1391	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1073]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1407	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1074]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1424	Since this proposal has been promised a certain follow-up by the Ministry, I choose to turn it into a transmission proposal so that it will not be downgraded.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1429	Then Øystein Hedstrøm has changed the proposal for a transmission proposal, and the wording will be amended accordingly. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1074]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1444	We then go to voting on the matters that are listed on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e1451	In the course of the debate, 12 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1, 2 and 10-12, by Mr Ryan, on behalf of the Socialist Left, proposals Nos. 3-5, by Inge Ryan on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, on the proposals No. 6-9, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party The suggestions are included on pages 61 to 69 of the adjustment. There will be a vote on the motions for resolutions first. 1, 2, 10 and 12, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e4634	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to intensify its efforts to significantly increase our production of organic food so that we can achieve objectives in this area.’ The central party has announced that they will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e4653	There will then be a vote on the proposal No. 6-9 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to adapt the fee revenue to the operation of the Brønnøysund Registers by incorporating the level of fees in line with the principle of self-financing at the latest in the State budget for 2005.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals in the Maritime Communication to impose net wages and salaries on all Norwegian seafarers in NOR who are exposed to international competition, including tugboats and other categories of vessels excluded under the transport conditions.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the reorganisation and consolidation of standardisation activities with a view to establishing a system in which the overall work for all standardisation work is added to the Ministry of Industry and Trade.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with proposals to set up a nationwide seed fund of 500 million. krona based on a model that allows increased participation from private sources.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e4686	There will then be a vote on the proposal No. 3–5, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to exempt new entrants from registration fees in the Brønnøsund Register.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget during the spring of 2004 with a stepping-up plan for the production and use of bioenergy, including: assesses efficient and sustainable solutions for the extraction of biofuels from the forest, a broad focus on the development and dissemination of different technologies for the exploitation of bioenergy, an industrial investment for bioenergy jobs, and a charging system for the competitiveness of biofuels with other energy.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a pilot project with the aim of identifying methods to stimulate increased recruitment in Norwegian agriculture.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e4713	We're going to vote on the vote on the proposal for a decision for the framework areas, and we're going to start with the framework area 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e6513	The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e7039	Here, too, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e8346	The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e8359	Then there is still to be a vote on non-framework decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e8372	This Roman number is the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party at the rear.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e8385	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e8392	Then the number of votes should be 59 for and 38 for the number of votes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e8395	Several of us were wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e8402	President! The Group of the Party of European Socialists had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e8409	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e8427	The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party are behind this Roman number.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e8444	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e9019	The President then goes to V, which concerns Chapter 950. The case rapporteur has fixed a bug in the configuration. The correct name of the chapter shall be «Administration of State ownership» and new item 91 shall be entitled «Funding equity, State power SF». This error is repeated in the premises, minority proposals and in decision V of the vote. For this Roman numeral, the following proposal is made by the Progress Party: ‘The 2003 budget shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjectivesCrones950Adtribution of equity91 State power SF, granted at 10 000 000 000’» [[new]] The proposal is addressed to the vote:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e9072	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e9077	The President will only draw attention to the fact that this is the proposal of the Progress Party. It's about $10 billion. Then we come to the committee's position, which is 4 billion kroner, a difference of 6 billion dollars, which is quite a lot of money. So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e9127	The Party of Workers, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are behind this Roman number. The President has understood this in such a way that the Progress Party now substantially supports this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e9147	The Party of Workers, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre are behind this Roman number.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e9560	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Øystein Hedstrøm, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 13 November 2003. In the course of the debate, the proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal and is amended to read as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government carry out an independent study of the actual importance of the housing obligation for the purpose of residence, other activities and development in the districts.’;» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-12-09.ana.ud1718e9578	There is no record.
