ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-lower.ana.ud305e37	As the rapporteur-in-Office, I am delighted to present a wide-ranging opinion here in Stortinget. With a thorough and balanced explanation, it is not certain that everyone will need to explain the same thing. Evidence of real competences is an important part of the whole reform of competences, which will help to develop and value the individual’s, labour and society’s needs for competences. It is positive both for individuals and for society that one can benefit from all formal and informal qualifications acquired through the education system, paid and unpaid work, organisational activities, family life and social life. The reform of competence has so far helped to give adults a right to primary and secondary education. Furthermore, there is a right to have their real competence described and valued by admission to higher education and the right to admission to higher education based on real competence. The whole Committee considers that the possibilities for evidence of real competences can help ensure both the training and work needed for adults. This promotes both lifelong learning and an inclusive working life. Recognising and raising other ways of acquiring skills than through traditional education is important in order to balance differences between, among others. social groups and parts of countries. This case concerns an extension of the possibility of real competence assessment for adults entitled to secondary education. Today’s scheme is limited to adults who aim at higher education. A unanimous committee supports the amendment of the law, which allows for the right and use of real competence assessment when it is not intended to continue training, so that it is also possible for persons wishing to demonstrate their professional competence for work to do so. It will also include persons who are not eligible for secondary education but are referred from local, regional or social security institutions. The Committee agrees that professional testing is a suitable method for assessing real skills, a ticket for working life, and is particularly relevant for immigrants who either lack evidence or have difficulties in recognising qualifications. We stress that the amendment of the law should not alter or affect the system of practical candidates or trade/friends letters. As regards responsibility for, and financing of, an expanded possibility for, the assessment of real competence, the Committee is divided. I leave to the Advance Party to justify its minority position on these points and will, for my part, explain a general view on the part of the other parties. However, if I were to try to describe and characterise the attitude of the Progress Party, it must be that it is unconsolidated and coordinated and does not provide any guidance in relation to the financing of such a change. The working party and the other parties assume that the county council, also as for the present system, will facilitate and implement the extended possibility of real-time competence assessment. Coordination is important for the development of a national system. This will also apply to those who are not entitled to secondary education but who are referred from the municipality, the establishment or the social security system. Although it is not statutory, the county should also be open to the assessment of real competence of persons without the right to secondary education at the initiative of other actors, as the department also suggests in the proposal. The majority agree that the county council should cover the costs of assessment of competence and certificates of competence for adults entitled to secondary education, while the municipality, the State and the social security system cover the costs of the persons referred to by them. The Ministry believes that the amendment of the law should be implemented without the introduction of fresh funds. This shall not affect the agreement of the majority of the Committee. The majority doubt whether the intention of the legislative amendment can be implemented without increased costs, and will point in particular to the county's follow-up responsibilities. The aim of the extension of the scheme is, of course, to give more people the opportunity for real and professional assessment. It does not seem reasonable for the county to be covered by the costs of those referred from other departments, but even will not have an increase in the costs of, hopefully, an increase in the number of persons entitled to secondary education who would like to have a professional competence assessment. I'll leave it to that, as long as there is a broad majority in the committee that believes the proposition does not provide a basis for assessing the extent of future expenditure associated with the scheme, but is committed to providing sufficient funds to ensure that this becomes a right of content. The majority therefore ask the Ministry to return to the 2004 State budget with a detailed assessment and estimation of the financial consequences and direct costs of the scheme. Finally, the majority is also concerned that the various public authorities assist persons who have received a real assessment of their competence, such as: identified need for training or other follow-up. This needs to be evaluated in the context of the establishment of a national system of evidence and valuation of real competence. The working party is satisfied with the setting and the legislative change. A new piece is in place in the reform of competences, a reform for the benefit of individuals and society.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-lower.ana.ud305e73	The present proposal for amendments to the Training Act complements the ability of people to have their real competences tested and documented. From the past, we have systems and rights that allow us to apply for admission to higher education and also the possibility of reduced study time based on the assessment of the individual student’s real competence. Corresponding systems exist for secondary education, related to the admission and any shortening of training, but only for so-called student rights. The amendment we are now dealing with aims to open up real skills assessment not only when the aim is education, but also when one wants to document his professional competence with a view to getting a job and fit into the labour market. I think it is a very good intention and a completely necessary legislative change in order to give more people the opportunity to obtain sustainable work, but also to formalise a system that allows them to obtain evidence of professional skills, whether acquired through previous training or through practical experience from previous work. The amendment of the law could facilitate the return of persons who have been out of the labour market for various reasons to active professional life. Persons who have not previously been in normal employment will be able to demonstrate their competence in the labour market, for example: competences acquired through participation in various forms of voluntary work or from the so-called third sector. This will help more people to become participants in productive work. Last but not least, it has been a problem for many to gain recognition of training and professional experience abroad in the Norwegian education and training system and in the labour market. Many have often had to resume their education in Norway or be offered jobs that do not correspond to their real qualifications. For this group of jobseekers, we believe that the current legislative change can be of great help. One of the best forms of integration we can bring immigrants into our education system and, in particular, in our working life. Having a job, being able to earn your own money and caring for yourself and your family through your own work, is one of the best life happiness we can give a fellow human being. In this perspective, I think this amendment of the law can also be a small contribution. I also find – like the rapporteur – reason to stress that professional testing and real competence assessment do not replace our currently established and good systems of vocational training and professional tests, nor do they provide professional tests for so-called practical candidates. These are good, well-employed and incorporated schemes and systems that will continue to be the main options towards professional and professional competence. Professional and real competence assessment is a complement to this. The county councils are currently responsible for vocational training in secondary school and are also largely in charge of the vocational testing systems. Then I find it also natural that the county councils are given responsibility for real competence assessment and professional testing. If in the future there would be changes in the county's responsibility for secondary education and associated duties, I find it natural that professional testing and real-time competence assessment will also accompany the new person in charge. In this context, I don't think I should go into this any further. In the Committee there has also been a certain discussion of the costs of this scheme and any compensation to county councils for the assessment of competence and the issue of certificates of competence. The bill states that the costs are shared between the responsible authorities, the county council, Aetat, the social security fund and the municipality. The majority also ask that the Ministry assess the economic impact of the 2004 State budget more closely. I think it is absolutely necessary that we gain some experience with the scheme before any additional resources are allocated. It is linked to uncertainties relating both to the scale, practical arrangements in each county municipality and the introduction of cost-effective procedures. In this respect, the Ministry should ensure that there is both learning and exchange of experience between the counties concerned and between the public authorities concerned, so that systems and procedures are optimised both for users and for the authorities. I believe that the present legislative amendment is a small step on the way to improving the labour market opportunities of a group of people who have so far encountered unnecessary difficulties when they have tried to make use of their skills and their working capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-lower.ana.ud305e96	First, I would like to draw attention to a question from the representative of the Blackevik Questionnaire yesterday, where the Council of State on the last additional questions of reason and proportionality in relation to resource use by preparing examinations and censorship in 50 languages, among others. answers: ‘In the morning, Odelstinget shall consider a proposal for a change to the Training Act relating to access to evidence of professional competence and to obtaining a certificate of competence.’;» Access to assessment of competence is, as we see it, access to the right of referral/referral, which I come back to. Furthermore, the Council of State says, and that is also the view of the Party of Advancement: ‘If people have real competence, it is effective to allow them to document it.’ It is only when the Council of State delivers opinions on the simplification of the normal quality assessment by reducing the examination conduct from two to one times a year for all students that the Progress Party falls off. In our view, this statement means a significant weakening of an already weak quality assurance system for initial training, which should provide, among other things. general study competence. For the treatment of Inster. S. No 78 for 1998-99 became real competence which was introduced against the voices of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The principle of real competence is that it is the actual competence that is crucial and not how that competence has been acquired. This was also one of the core points of the Buer selection. This principle, or the intrinsic value of working life in relation to continuing education and training, including in academia, has given each institution a far greater responsibility for quality assurance of real competence to meet the requirements which institutions must impose in order to have a proper flow. The high level of responsibility placed on the higher education institutions by the majority decision on real competence may be treated in the same way as the responsibilities of employers for employment and competence mapping in their own enterprise and for the working environment of the enterprise. When, under the Government, the counties are to assume the responsibility of the private enterprises to check whether the jobseekers have the competence and wishes of the enterprise, it is in itself a greater problem than the designed objections of the Right in dealing with the reform of competence. Let me briefly remind you of what the Right meant on 19 January 1999 about systems for the documentation of real competence: ‘In our view, we already have a reasonably flexible system today, because we have the right to go to the private examination initially at all levels of the education society.’ At that time it was the Court's fundamental view that, with the exception of higher education, there was an opportunity for anyone to test and document whether or not one has competence. The most important thing is that the workplaces function as a learning environment, thereby providing the necessary incentive for all workers, whether young, middle-aged, older or immigrants, to have a real desire to learn. If there is any area in which the market mechanism is beneficial, it can be released and can help solve problems, it is precisely in this area. There should be room for all creative and good forces that can come up with innovative and quality-promoting solutions. The progress party does not have such a one-track view that this must allow the county council to operate, so that they also have something to do. The party of progress will bring the county down as soon as possible. We thought this was also right-wing policy, but we've obviously let ourselves be led behind the light. For the Progress Party, it is important not to assign new tasks to the county council as a form of life-saving first aid. The message distinguishes the right of adults to secondary education from those who do not have this right. Unlawful adults shall be referred to an assessment by a public body. If we take the view of the government parties in 1999, this is a quantum leap. In the Government, they want to have a new form of evidence of work experience and perhaps rose-painting courses in order to become attractive in relation to the labour market. For the purpose of over-targeting, there shall be a public reference to such an investigation. Where has the right to a private test become, for which one then glowed in the previous period? The concept of reference can quickly be seen as a form of further clientisation of the unemployed, not to mention those who get their daily life administered by social security agencies and municipalities. The Progress Party wants all people to have the right to be tested or assessed for their overall competence, but a new bureaucracy must not be built that can be seen as essentially the task of demonstrating competence in relation to labour migration, which the Government obviously has as its objective. Immigration can now be seen as more important than unemployment. It has been Aeta's responsibility to assess real skills in terms of working life in their efforts to disseminate work. Furthermore, all institutions with the right to an examination, both public and private, can carry out this task. We have several headhunting companies that are very competent, not to talk about the serious temporary employment agencies. It is simply incomprehensible that this should and must be a public task, earmarked for the county council. The Progress Party refers to the proceedings of the Social Committee of St.meld. No 14 for 2002-2003 on the coordination of the Aetat, Social Security and Social Services. Furthermore, reference is made to Ot.prp. No 28 for 2002-2003 on the introduction scheme for newly arrived immigrants to be discussed in the Municipal Committee. We had expected the government to do a coordinating work to achieve a completely good result, but we have a clear feeling that the government has a attachment to promoting many small things in the hope that the Storting will not discover that all the small things together constitute major reforms, which require large sums so that one can force it through in budgetary negotiations or leave the financing problem to future governments. The Progress Party will have a documentation system operated by the market through good quality assurance programmes and financed through a State-wide single price scheme. Furthermore, there is a requirement that the right of documentary evidence applies to all those who wish to do so on their own account. In addition, the Progress Party wishes to develop reassuring and quality assurance appeals so that the individual's sense of justice is not violated. I refer to the motion for a resolution on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-lower.ana.ud305e141	Ursula Evje has addressed the proposal to which she referred. The clock has now passed 22.00, and the regulatory time for the afternoon meeting is at hand. The President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-lower.ana.ud305e146	It's free for everyone to express the confusion that's going on in your head. The last article was a strong expression for it. The matter we are now dealing with may look like a small and insignificant matter. But it's wrong. This is an important and important matter because, through the decisions we are making today, we are breaking a monopoly. It is no longer just the established education systems with their curricula and examinations that are intended to pay out in issuing certificates of competence. The often slightly ridiculed school of life gets a long-awaited acceptance. The often tamed and hidden knowledge is now to be assessed against the curriculum of the various subjects. With this change, we formalize a new and expanded view of knowledge, and we recognize that knowledge can be acquired in different ways and in different contexts. In addition, we stress that testing of competences acquired outside the school should not be subject to common test forms. This is important and absolutely crucial, because we know that many of those who now need to test the skills they have acquired in the workplace or in other ways often have many failures associated with the school. It is important that the school meet them in different ways, with different test forms than the traditional test form. It is crucial for young people, and so far as the elderly, to take advantage of the opportunity that we are now giving them. In the context of legislative changes, the follow-up to Stortingen’s treatment of the reform of competences, several important steps have been taken. We've given adults the right to individual primary and secondary school. Employees have a statutory right to leave. We have given the right to admission to higher education on the basis of real skills, i.e. without general study experience. There is reason to note that the experience with this reform is very good. Many colleges and universities have taken up students on the basis of real skills, and the experience is good. Most of the students succeed very well, both those who are admitted to part-time study, and those who attend a regular study at an institution. So this has been an important and exciting reform. We've implemented a competence development program according to the plans we had, and it's allocated somewhere between 200 million. NOK 300 million and SEK 300 million. kr. This reform, which actually started with an S.V. proposal on continuing training, moved through the reform of competence, and many important decisions were taken. They've been innovative for a large part of our education system, and we've brought forward a new vision of knowledge, a new view of knowledge, and we've given many people who have experienced failure in the past in relation to school, the opportunity to document what they can do. What remains of the reform of competences is primarily the financing of the reform. Unfortunately, we have not come as far as we should have come. We have still not been given an overview of how part of the training offers will be financed. I just want to remind you that we had a proposal for tripartite funding, that both the government, the state, and the employers and employees should go in with funding. I hope that we will also do this. When we get it into place, this great reform work is almost complete. It's a little exciting that there's actually a Right-State Council promoting this proposal, because when we were dealing with the competence reform, the Right was quite strongly indignant about some of these proposals. Among other things, it was very funny that plumbers could now become doctors. That's what you used to do a lot of harelas. This is not the way this reform is, but this reform brings forward the tacit and hidden knowledge that has not been documented in the past. Then finally to the funding. It is clear that it will impose additional costs on county councils. I hope it adds a lot of extra costs to the county councils, precisely because it means that there are many people who want to make use of the system, use a system, come to the county councils to assess their real competence against the school curriculum. So the fact that this is going to be cost-intensive would be a sign that we've succeeded. So we have to follow this up. We have to make sure, when we get evidence of the extent, that the county councils are covered by the costs needed to carry this out in a good way. At least the costs shall not be what prevents people from availing themselves of this possibility. For this reason, it is also a strong call for the Council of State, when this is to be implemented, to ensure that it is clear to the county councils that a proper grip is to be taken, here it is to be facilitated, and here it is not to use traditional test forms when adults come to demonstrate their real competence. It's actually a very big reform we're adopting. I'm not sure everyone got it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-lower.ana.ud305e174	The rapporteur gave a good account of the Committee's work and attitude and expressed opinions to which the Christian People's Party also subscribes. However, when I take the floor, it is because the representative Evje made a post where she made it so that the government parties opposed the reform of competence. For the Christian People's Party, that is not right. We have always supported the reform of competences. We have also supported the possibility of obtaining evidence of real competence, and now this amendment of the law. I think it is affordable for the government to base this on and follow it on. This shows that experience in the labour market has had a positive effect on the points of view that have emerged. However, I understood that the Progress Party still wants to re-examine the reform of competence, and especially in relation to the assessment of real competence. It does not want a Christian People's Party. Let me also say that in relation to economics, I'm still a little bit unsure about how much this will get. I think it is necessary to gain some experience of this before we look at it and thus may have some idea of how much costs this will entail for the county. Today's decision I experience as a natural follow-up and a step further, which strengthens the ability of adults and immigrants to document their knowledge and thus also to function well and gain access to the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-lower.ana.ud305e187	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-lower.ana.ud305e195	Case No. 1 is added to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-lower.ana.ud305e202	During the debate, Mr Evje presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative of Mr Simonsen. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-lower.ana.ud305e255	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-lower.ana.ud305e265	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20-lower.ana.ud305e276	There is no record.
