ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e72	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odelstingen meeting in the evening – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e77	I suggest Heidi Grande Røys.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e82	Heidi Grande Røys has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Heidi Grande Røys is unanimously elected president of Odelstinget’s meeting tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e101	I refer to the debate in Stortinget earlier this evening and will now just give a few brief comments on some points. The Committee set up by the Presidency on 9 January of this year was specifically asked in its mandate to assess the current early retirement or early retirement scheme. The committee suggests that we continue to have such a scheme, pointing out that the kind of waiting/early pension we have is flexible and that the benefit can be granted to those who need it most. At the same time, it is proposed that the name of the scheme be changed to waiting compensation. Some of the criticisms that have arisen in relation to the scheme we have had are due to the fact that practices were related to the recipients who were largely early pensioners. This practice did not necessarily fit well with younger applicants. This has been seen and addressed by the Board of Pensions in the development of new guidelines. The main emphasis of the changes adopted by the Pensions Board and supported by the Selection Board and the Presidency is on better follow-up and control, and the curtailment rules in relation to other income are substantially strengthened. In addition, the committee proposes that alternative models for the organisation of the pension scheme should be examined, including: an organisation with the participation of external members is considered. In the suspension, the Presidency promotes proposals for amendments to the Pensions Act that follow up the proposals for curtailment of the waiting allowance in relation to other income, cf. Section 7. Curtailment shall be carried out if ‘other annual income exceeds 1/12 of the grossing-up representatives’ fixed remuneration’. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who receive a pension or a waiting allowance from Stortinget and meet at Stortinget as alternates should receive a reduction in attendance compensation equivalent to that paid in retirement or waiting allowance. This recommends the unanimity of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e118	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[See page 1022]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e134	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e141	There is no reason to have a long debate on this matter. We have just avoided a debate on all the main features of kindergarten policy in the context of the notification. I just want to refer to the comments from the different parties in the Innst. S. No 250. This also applies to the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e146	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2 [[See page 1023]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e162	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e171	Let me begin by commending the proposers for proposing to amend the marriage law, so that the law guarantees the equal formal right of divorce of the sexes. The committee setting is unanimous. Let me stress that in Norway the Norwegian law will apply. It shall be voluntary under Norwegian law to marry, and under Norwegian law it shall be equal to the right for men and women to ask for a divorce. A unanimous committee is concerned that Muslim women do not have the same rights as men to withdraw from a marriage contract. I repeat: in Norway, the Norwegian law applies. A unanimous vote today will adopt a necessary amendment to the marriage law, such as: says: ‘Each of the bridesmaids shall individually declare in honor and conscience that the marriage is concluded by their own free will and that they recognise each other’s equal right to divorce.’ There is clearly a necessary legislative change in our successive multicultural societies. I refer with this to a unanimous setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e185	In Norway today, there is a diversity of religious communities. There is therefore a need to highlight these religious communities and some of their practices in order to clarify and safeguard women’s rights. While religious freedom is an important principle for any democratic state, and discrimination against religious minorities is prohibited under both the UN Convention on Human Rights and national law, women's rights must be guaranteed both by the Women's Convention and the Equality Act in Norway. Women's oppression within any religious community therefore cannot be accepted. Although it is that the Koran accepts the laws of non-Muslim countries, there is, in practice, an easy conflict. It is such that both Islamic case law and Norwegian law give women the right to divorce. However, according to the Norwegian Marriage Act, there is no difference between the sexes, as the case-rapporteur also pointed out, in terms of the right to seek divorce. But this is not the case in Islam. Here, the requirements for both women and men in divorce will vary. Most marriages made abroad are also recognised and registered in Norway, unless they conflict with the Norwegian Marriage Act. Minority women with Muslim background coming to the country through family reunification and having a residence permit are also covered by the Norwegian Marriage Act, even if they have made marriage abroad according to Islamic case law. For many of these women, however, it is not easy to break out of unwanted marriages, as they have to deal with both Sharia and the Foreign Affairs Act in addition to the Norwegian Marriage Act. The complications of this can cause many women to find that they have no choice but to remain in marriage, which is to the detriment of both themselves and any children. If the divorce becomes a fact, it is not enough for many believing Muslim women to terminate marriage only under the Norwegian divorce law. They also want to end marriage in relation to Islamic case-law. The problem is that they don't get an Islamic divorce. This situation arises when the married couple disagree and the husband refuses to give religious divorce. It is fully possible to be separated by Norwegian law even if not both parties agree, whereas according to Islamic case law, in most cases the woman must have the man’s consent to divorce. In such situations, the imams often try to mediate between the parties to reach agreement, or to get the man to divorce the woman. If such an attempt fails, she may seek out an Islamic court which is either in her own country or in England. This is a long and difficult way to go, especially for women living in Norway. Here we must work for two important objectives. First of all, we must ensure equal rights to divorce for women who will marry in the future. And second, we have to make sure that those women who now get formal divorce under Norwegian law also end their Muslim marriage contract. An overall committee stresses the importance of a written notification by the county council of divorce decisions to the Norwegian congregation for which the marriage contract has been concluded, so that this body is informed and can contribute to the termination of the Muslim marriage contract for which they have been responsible. One of the problems is that the Muslim communities in Norway do not have the power to approve Norwegian divorce decisions or to grant Islamic divorce. So they're just given the right to marry. I would like to stress that this is a very complicated matter, which cannot be fully resolved by the Norwegian authorities alone, among others. in the light of the freedom of religion in our country. This means that it is the responsibility of the Muslim communities to contribute to solutions. At the same time, I would like to stress that I think it is absolutely necessary for the Government to work to reach bilateral agreements internationally on, among other things. Divorce, which means that Norwegian divorces are accepted in the countries of origin and that Muslim women who are separated by Norwegian rules do not risk being charged with Bigami if they want to make a new marriage, because they are still registered as married in the Islamic Marriage Register.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e207	Actually, it is a historic proposal that is adopted here tonight, historically because it is an important step to ensure both sexes the right to divorce, and historically because there are more parties than the Progress Party that have shown the ability to see the negative consequences of immigration into Norway. The decision that Odelstinget is about to take today will tell potential women’s oppressors who may intend to make forced marriages that in Norway the type of discriminatory action is not being carried out under the condition that it is culturally or religiously conditional. I come from a debate in our state channel, NRK. I have participated in Editorial Committee EN this evening together with State Councillor Erna Solberg. In that program, there was also a young girl. She is so threatened by her family that she could not participate in the debate. This young girl had chosen to take out a divorce, and she doesn't get it. That is why I am pleased that this proposal will at least be adopted tonight, even if it is not enough in time. If the Norwegian Storing and the Government had taken this problem seriously, they would have ended earlier this evening on the proposals of the Advance Party in Stortinget. But it's clear that the Progress Party must work more actively to get the government to understand the dilemmas of these young people. The fact that we have a Norwegian law, that we have a Norwegian government, a Norwegian state council and a Norwegian government that accepts the type of abuse against young people with Norwegian citizenship is absolutely incredible. As one of the debaters in the NRK said today, it's a disgrace in the Norwegian giant that we don't take it more seriously than we do. Today, 6,000 young people are at risk of that type of assault. And what do we do here in the Storting, and what does the Government do? Yes, we're talking. We want to investigate, we want action plans, although this debate has been going on in Norwegian society for 30 years. The majority continue to stand alone and see that these young people are being subjected to abuse – not only in the case of forced marriage and that they have no right to divorce, but also acts that lead to mutilation, etc., that we have within some cultures. I'm sorry. Nevertheless, I have to say that I am quite satisfied that we are doing at least a little bit here in relation to tightening up the kind of practice that we see in many environments. So it's not that the Storting by this decision points out that this is a general problem, for many of the marriages that have been concluded, works very well and is actually concluded by free will, and divorce may go well. Many are probably so lucky that they are in such a situation as well. But I think that argument is getting too thin. One young girl à la the girl who was going to join the NRK tonight is enough for me to use Norwegian law. And unlike the previous speaker here, I think that Norwegian authorities can do much more to change that kind of practice. I don't think that's enough, and it doesn't last anymore, to drive and talk and debate and think that we're going to be able to change attitudes within this environment. We have been doing that for 30 years, and soon more than the Progress Party must understand that it is no good. Nor is it useful with the kind of climbing that we're doing here tonight, or what the government claims it's doing, by doing both the one and the other, but then there's no results. Now we have to decide for once to adopt a package, where a number of measures are adopted. There is a high age limit for marriage – i.e. by family reunification – clear notification of dependants, also with a deposit, clear notification of housing requirements and the prohibition of marriage between cousins. These four grips alone will only signal enough that we might be able to save some of these kids girls. The Progress Party has tabled these proposals on a number of occasions, and it is regrettable that the Council of State, even in debate with me tonight, claims that every time we make a proposal, it is stupid. What's stupid is that the authorities and the Storting accept that young girls are being subjected to that kind of assault.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e224	SV agrees that we are making an important decision today. As a small comment to the previous speaker, I would like to say that to the extent that serious and non-discriminatory proposals are promoted that ensure equality for all women living in Norway, it is fully possible to have them adopted in the Grand Duchy, but they must be worked through and so that we actually achieve their purpose. I would like to join in the post that Right-wing Representative Afshan Rafiq made. I clearly understood that post differently than Per Sandberg, because I realized that Afghan Rafiq just said that here the Muslim communities had a great responsibility. We are now adopting some legal regulations that I am quite sure will help in some cases, but the worst thing is in a way to be unseemly or outlawed because you are doing an action that you feel you need. You don't choose divorce because you think it's funny. It's a defeat for everyone – some of us have tried it, and know it. The biggest problem for very many is the loyalty of the family, and knowing that you hurt others and hurt others with it is hard. And there's something that the legislator can't promise. It is important to establish a climate within the family, within the community, within the social environment of which you are a part, which accepts that sometimes you have to make such bad decisions. What we can do is ensure the formal basis for equal rights to divorce, and we'll do that. The second job is to help the entire big community back up below. But it is quite right, as the representative of Mr Rafiq says, that it is a great responsibility for the Muslim communities and the environment. It also applies to other communities. I know some other, Christian congregations too, which are awfully tough with their own if, for example, they are. will go to divorce or in some of life's situations choose slightly different from what is considered to be the right thing. This can be very tough in social terms. It can be tough in different religious environments. Here the challenge must be addressed to them, that they need to recognise legal decisions or legal management decisions taken. You have to appeal to take human considerations and show a greater understanding of the difficulties that individuals can face in their lives. So I'm very happy with that post, and I'm very happy with the decision we're going to make today. I am also very pleased that we are going to have the regulatory change quality assured against our international obligations. I am absolutely sure that it is possible to put in place a regulatory home with a wording that is completely in line with our international obligations, and that there is no problem. And I'm very happy that we, as big and committees – to say it this way, there are more committees in here – have managed to deal with this matter quickly. I think this has been very positive, also because we are now able to conduct this debate in a polite and respectful manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e237	We have to see the reality in our eyes, because it's catching up with us anyway. And Norwegian reality for some Muslim women is unfortunately that Norwegian divorce is not recognised and considered valid in family and environment. Of course, it creates a problem. And even worse: the man has an unlimited and very simple right to Muslim divorce, while the woman must have through a complicated procedure or must have his permission to do the same. It can be given in the marriage contract, but it only gets it very rarely. This is not acceptable, and the Christian People's Party takes it very seriously. Of course, we are not for divorce – as Karin Andersen pointed out, it is a defeat for all parties – but we are for equal rights here as well. It is difficult to avoid religious or cultural barriers. Here, however, we have found, I think, a solution that is both simple, feasible and probably effective. Norway can easily sympathise with the benefits of the opening of equality that exists in Muslim marriage contracts and Muslim traditions and laws and that it is the seat of family unity after marriage. And then I'm going to say that this equality is going to work. I'm glad that a total amount of stuff in point B of the setting requires just that. Let it be clear: we cannot have any parallel, legal law that applies to Muslim women, but no one else. Norwegian law applies to everyone. Norwegian law is not to discriminate against. However, Norwegian rules are abused in a debasing way, which can involve both bigamy and social security abuse, without comparing the two things. It's not acceptable either. The suggestion in point C of the setting tries to frame/ crop such an abuse. I would advise the Government to ensure that quality checks are carried out as quickly as possible and to put in place regulations in the Foreign Affairs Act that prevent discrimination and the unacceptable practices of women that we have discovered that some women live under. If we are to fulfil our human rights obligations in Norway, we must take measures that give women and men equal rights to divorce from the Muslim environment as well as to marriage. That is what this proposal is an attempt at. I think it'll be effective. I also believe that because the environments that this is going to look like are meant to be. Finally, the option also includes proposals for new marriage legislation, where each should declare not only that the marriage has been concluded on its own free will, but also that they accept each other's equal rights to divorce. This will help to avoid coercion – that's why it is – and to ensure equality for those who marry here in Norway. Such law believes the Christian People's Party will help and support young people to have control and rule over their own lives. The Christian People's Party believes that law creates postures, postures that become irresistible, but of course in the long term. That girls get up and demand changes, e.g. And as we're doing now, we're showing that changes are on the way, and that law actually creates detonations. That's what we want for those who are struggling with these problems today. Then, of course, the proposals are clarified in relation to the international conventions that Norway has concluded. Otherwise, it would just be missing. It's urgent to put these regulations in place, and I want to encourage both the Council of State and the Government to support it without unnecessary delays. But we always have to have time for a normal procedure and listening round. Of course, it can be both short and effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e254	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e257	The Labour Party agrees that there is an important decision we are going to take here today. The Labour Party believes that the right of women and men to divorce should be the same here in the country. Therefore, we cannot accept that Muslim women who have married in the country of origin or in a Muslim community in Norway should not have the same right to divorce as, for example, those who have married in the country of origin or in a Muslim community in Norway. other women in Norway, or the men with whom they married. It turns out that a growing number of Muslim women end up in a difficult situation when marriage breaks up. Under Norwegian law, marriage can be dissolved, but if the husband does not want to give marriage the formal termination as prescribed in Islam, as often happens because divorce is usually a conflict situation, the woman will still be married after Islam. Marriage has been legally dissolved when a divorce permit is available from the county. The man is divorced and has his freedom, but not the woman. So despite being separated by Norwegian law, they are still considered married in their own environments, with the limitations this gives to one party, namely the woman. This is not acceptable. The husband may remarry, which the woman does not have equivalent access to. The man sits with the key, the woman becomes the losing party. This is contrary to all justice. That is why the Labour Party has helped to promote the proposal that we are dealing with here today, to which all the parties belong, and which is therefore adopted. The bill adopted tonight could help the women who get married when the law is in place. But what about all the women who are already married and will get into a divorce situation? We must also take this seriously. That is why the Committee also asks the Government to follow up the case with a view to making changes to the current Norwegian marriage law, so that the man can be required by law or regulation to contribute to the fulfilment of Islamic dissolution criteria. In the absence of such confirmation, this must lead to the risk of his own continuing to be ‘married’, resulting in consequences in relation to any new marriage and family reunification in Norway. Finally, the Labour Party does not agree with the Government that a Sharia Council should be established here in the country. But I expect that with the proposal that we are adopting here tonight, the proposal for the Sharia Council is put in the drawer. I ask the Council of State to confirm this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e272	There is not so often a common document number. Eight proposals first, which are then dealt with very quickly by the committee in question, which also comes with a unanimous recommendation. From the centre party's point of view, it's only necessary to add to what has already been said here, that we emphasize for the first time that it should be equal to the right to divorce for women and men, and for the second, that it is Norwegian law that should apply to those who live in Norway. We're a little uncertain about both where thoughtfully and how seriously it was that the government considered the sharia council. At least we're sure it's putting the government away. It's so that we can make legislative decisions, and we can say what we're supposed to hold regulations. We can also expect the Government to realize that there is a cross-political message from the Storting that we want the Government to follow this up very quickly. We have argued that the government has seen in action what we call a ‘fast procedure’ for that to happen. But then we know that changing the grips is a bit more long-term and extensive work. It's something that's actually happening over a very long time. For this reason, we are also keenly aware that this piece of legislation is of importance to those who are involved after the law comes into force, but there is a lot else that needs to be done here in relation to attitudes and culture in order to understand this decision, and not least that there should also be a change of attitude. Now the government has received more questions, and I assume that she will confirm that it may take a long time to change the regulation. But it can also be very clumsy, when the Council of State is positive to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e280	In a few minutes, Odelstinget shall deal with measures against Zimbabwe due, inter alia, to: the policy of President Mugabe. He uses big and simple words about the father in connection with the future as a cage in the country. He sees them as a big problem, and it strikes me, when I hear the message from Per Sandberg, that 'Mugaber' we can get in every country. I think it is right to establish what has not been fixed clearly enough in this debate, that the Stortinget, the non-attached representative of Sandberg and the likely Progress Party, actually sees immigration and Muslim Norwegian citizens as a good thing. We don't think of it as a problem at all. Sandberg starts by saying that it is a pity that the Storting is not in agreement with the Progress Party that immigration is a problem. Yes, that leads to a problem, but immigration is not a problem. We stumble upon concrete problems that need to be solved. The majority in Stortinget, a co-conspirator, looks like, adopts concrete measures here now when it comes to equality. It's a good step on the road. The peril is the one who turns around in big words and simple solutions and believes that one solves religious, cultural and traditional relationships only in big words. It doesn't. This leads to suspicion, and it leads to new prejudices.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e285	Let me start by saying that I agree with the latter speaker. We get very baffled in these discussions if our starting point is that because we're concerned with equality, non-discrimination, we should also be equal, but not equivalent. The most important thing we can do in such a debate is to respect the fact that someone has religious beliefs other than the majority, or perhaps the minority, in Norway, in fact – most of them have become so secular that you don't have so many – and that there is a respect we need. This, of course, creates some major problems in a country like ours, including the United States and Japan. This creates a problem because young and older women experience that their religious affiliation does not necessarily give the same effect to the solutions we have in Norway in their home country. In my opinion, it is a task for Norwegian politicians to make sure that we take their problems as seriously as we take other women's problems. In this way, I am pleased with the proposal we have today, because we are actually taking their problems as seriously as we are taking Norwegian women's problems seriously in the field of equality. Then I have expressed in a letter that I agree with the intentions. We need a certain amount of time to go through this. We have already started this work, both in asking independent experts on human rights and the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice to do a borderline on this, because the right to family life and the right of children to contact their parents are guaranteed in human rights. We can't just have the family reunion perspective on the question. We also need to look at the ringing effects and consequences of this. We're going to figure this out as soon as possible. We're going to draw up a prescription. We must therefore have a hearing on this, under the Administrative Act, and we must, in fact, also listen to the hearing bodies when they come up with their opinions. So to the question of whether we've put this with a sharia council dead. The government has never suggested that we set up a sharia council, because we can't do that. It's actually something that religious communities themselves can create. It has nothing to do with jurisdiction. For all those living in Norway, regulated by Norwegian law, there has never been a question of that. A sharia council will serve to a large extent as a mediation board. And if I were to be honest, linked to many of the generational and cultural conflicts we actually have here in Norway for immigrant children, I would have wanted a stronger focus on mediation agencies within the environments that could do anything. In those countries of Europe that have these types of mediation bodies, it is progressive in relation to Islam. It draws with traditional, conservative Islamic environments into a context of living in a Western and modern society. I realize I've provoked a lot of people. We'll see what it's like. But we can only create this by saying that the Muslim communities must also take responsibility for this. I fully agree with Mr Rafiq.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e298	Let me first clarify a misunderstanding. At least I think it was. I did not say in my main post, in relation to the post of the representative Rafiq, something about what was going on in those environments. What I commented on in relation to the post was that I actually believe that law can affect attitude. I also heard with interest that a representative from the Christian People's Party said afterwards. I still believe that, although the representative of Blankenborg will not debate the content of the problem. I would like to laugh at that post, but I have put myself on the line that I should not let myself be provoked by such meaningless posts. However, it is actually one of the fundamental problems we have in Stortinget, in the Government and in the Norwegian debate, that Blankenborg and the Council of State Solberg will not debate the content of the problem, but that they will listen to the Progress Party with a preconceived view that all the proposals we are promoting are stupid. Despite the fact that many countries are now down through Europe adopting the proposals that the Progress Party has made, they are nevertheless stupid when they are promoted in the Norwegian Grand Prix. I'm recording it, and I think it's a pity that this is how it is, because here it's about a lot of young people with Norwegian citizenship who are either being coerced, sexually mutilated or denied divorce, or in worst cases being sent out of the country as seven-eight-nine-year-olds to get an assignment at Taliban schools, and then to come back to Norway. But no one takes that into account. I think it's sad, but I'm going to promise both the representative of Blankenborg, the councillor of Solberg and the rest of the Stortinget that some oral baskets they can't put on the Progress Party in that context. I know that sooner or later, common sense must also take place with the Council of State of Solberg, the representative of Blankenborg and others who had to represent in the Norwegian big business. Finally, I would like to ask Erna Solberg about something in relation to progress. Now it is clear here that the law must come into force immediately. I listened to Erna Solberg. She really wants to train the whole progress. I know that. She would have preferred to have seen that this proposal was not promoted, and not at all adopted, because it should have been done by the department, the government and Erna Solberg themselves and sitting and ploughing about it for a few years. But now it's the way this is going to be adopted. And then the question is: will the Council of State Solberg now follow up on this immediately, and in line with what is actually happening in a matter we are going to deal with later today, which is more extensive than this, concerning the Dublin II Regulation? There was a 14-day hearing. Or will she still insist that she should train the progress also in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e307	It is foolish if this becomes a debate on the Progress Party, because it will be easy in such debates. But Per Sandberg is up and excited that every time we have such debates, the other parties claim different things about the Progress Party, and that they have a different agenda than us. I just have to say that every time Per Sandberg goes to the pulpit, he confirms that impression seam. The difference between us and the others is that the people that Per Sandberg is now – affordable – are involved in promoting a bill that will help, would not be here at all, if Per Sandberg had got what he wanted. They had no Norwegian citizenship. They didn't even get into the country, while the others think it's okay. We want you to come, but here in the country, we practice equality, and we don't accept any difference. That's where we're going to be strong. There we're not going to accept any squeezing. But there is a big difference between having an open attitude to immigration and to refugees and asylum seekers and not having it. And that's where the difference goes. Then I will also address a question to the Council of State, which she has received from several. It is also important for SV that we get as fast a process as possible, within the framework mentioned here, that there are also some conventions here, among other things. is the right of children to be with their mother and father and to be able to have close and close contact with them. It's an element that needs to be considered when designing the actual wording. But to put it that way, there was nothing to prevent it from having a regulation that establishes the principle that a marriage that is made should give equal rights to divorce both to man and woman, in parallel with having other arrangements that allow you to take your parental responsibility for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e316	Perhaps I can start by correcting an obvious misunderstanding, which is not about something that has happened in the hall today, but which obviously has led Per Sandberg to use the word ‘dum’ relatively many times. I didn't say on TV that Per Sandberg's proposal was stupid. I didn't say Per Sandberg was stupid. On the other hand, I have said that I think it is foolish that serious, serious debates on important issues for immigrants in this country should end up in a mirage of what expenditure we have in the revised national budget relating to asylum seekers, or in a discussion on the overall position of the Progress Party. In fact, I think these matters should just be discussed for their nature of content, and not be mixed up in very many other contexts. So at the rate, we're going to do it as fast as possible, but I can't guarantee how fast it is, until we know what problems we might have to face when we go through the conventions. Maybe we don't run into anyone. But we need legal expertise to evaluate that. If we don't encounter any problems, this is currant and can go relatively fast. Should we encounter problems, that means that we need to develop regulations that respect our intention but that do not conflict with the conventions. In the field of refugee, we are aware that this requirement is unlikely to be met, because the requirement to be protected will go ahead of the requirement to have correctly crossed the Muslim marriage form. So, the protection requirement is higher than that. It will be relatively easy to move on. So we have to do the basic work first, and we've already asked the law department to do it quickly, and we've also asked the Institute for Human Rights to review the laws in order to have an independent assessment of what the law department is doing, just to make sure that it gets it right. What is the dilemma is that a regulation that we might have introduced will not be valid if it conflicts with the laws or conventions that we are bound by. So if a case is tried in court, the law won't be valid if we haven't done it the right way. We have to do it quickly, but we have adopted a law to ensure democracy linked to the consultation process. We don't want to train it. Our parties are behind this proposal and have wanted to implement it. We have written from the department and my side that we agree with the intentions of the proposal, and therefore there is no reason to wonder that there would be some kind of training. But I think the important thing is that if we adopt this, we must actually also have a valid regulatory framework. And it's not a valid law if conventions we've attached ourselves to, which have precedence legally for this, actually conflict with such a rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e327	The representative Per Sandberg has spoken twice before in the debate, and is now given the floor for a brief comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e330	In fact, I do not think the answer given by the Council of State in relation to progress was reassuring. So let me ask you a little more specifically: will the Council of State have a longer consultation period on this matter than in the case of the Dublin II regulation? Is it going to be 6 months of hearing, or is it going to last 14 days or 3 weeks? Or will the Council of State permit the use of the exemption provisions in relation to Section 37 of the Administrative Act, because exceptions can be made? So I just want to make a brief comment: yes, it is true that the Progress Party has a tight immigration policy in relation to the other parties, and that with our policies, maybe many of these people had not been here. That's absolutely right. That the rest of the Storting wants even greater immigration than what exists is also quite correct. What is different is that when people have been given residence in Norway, Norwegian citizenship and legal residence in Norway, at least one party respects their rights. Unfortunately, it's just the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e337	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1023]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e353	The Ministry of Culture and the Church is proposing amendments to Law No 20. December 1985. 108 on public libraries, so that municipalities can cooperate with state institutions on public library services. Furthermore, it is open to trials where one can make an exception to the requirement to have a library in each municipality. It is also proposed to amend the law in order to find alternative ways of organising library tasks at regional level, including by: to allow the Ministry to grant derogations from the requirement to have a county library in each county municipality. So this is going to be a pilot project. Furthermore, the requirement for county libraries to be linked to a public library is proposed to be removed in order to provide room for more flexible solutions. The legislative proposal that has been promoted is less comprehensive than the amendments proposed in the note for consultation in the autumn of 2002. This was justified by the fact that a major revision of the People's Library Act has been announced as part of a major development and investigation work in the library field, including the question of a new law covering all types of libraries, in order to put the idea of a seamless library into life. There is broad consensus in the Committee that further consideration should be given to the types of instrument that can be useful to facilitate a more coordinated and seamless library system. During the hearings, there was considerable resistance, in particular to the removal of the competence requirement for librarians at municipal and county libraries and the requirement to be a public library in all municipalities. The government has taken note of this resistance in the proposal that has now been promoted and has so far chosen to maintain the requirement of competence and the code of library in each municipality. The committee is very pleased with that. Another proposal is the proposal to introduce a legal framework allowing municipalities to cooperate with state institutions on public library services. The Committee welcomes this, not least in view of the challenges facing public libraries in the use of new technologies, decentralised education, distance lending services, access to databases, etc. This requires the development of cooperation mechanisms across local and institutional boundaries. They also agree that prison libraries face major challenges, and we believe that prison libraries need to be involved in assessments of the ideas of the seamless library. An overall committee is concerned about the decline in book-bus services, and we believe that a national book-bus plan should be established in the context of the library investigation. In this context, I believe it is good to look back on the treatment of the ABM message. Then there were some parties that were led, and it was the middle parties and SV, who disagreed with the majority, who would remove the earmarked grants and let them go into the framework. In this regard, we asked the Government to follow closely to see the consequences of the liquidation of earmarked grants for mobile library services and library facilities, and possibly come back with proposals for schemes to secure the grants. We have seen how this has gone, and unfortunately our assumptions have turned on. SV believes that there is room within the existing legislation to test out and establish cooperation solutions between municipal, county and state units where conditions allow. We also agree that it is necessary to explore more closely which tools can be useful to facilitate a more coordinated and seamless library system. We further support the principle of increased autonomy and cooperation across municipal borders and between county municipalities and state agencies, but we are also concerned that this could lead to a lower level of library provision and that the consequences could be a different library offer to municipalities. The reason for this concern is that many municipalities are struggling with poor municipal economy, and one consequence is that this easily leads to the depriving of unstatistical tasks. The hearings have shown that many share these concerns with us. There is a notice of a major investigation in the library field in the near future, and we believe that it should not be opened up to experimental activities that result in municipalities and counties becoming without their own library, until final changes to the law have taken place. Attempts have already been made with cooperative solutions and joint municipal libraries that balance within today's legal text. And the current law, as we see it, is no obstacle to the exploration of creative solutions. Against this background, we therefore believe that the proposed changes to Section 4 should not take place until more extensive investigations of the consequences are available in a wider context. When we in SV do not see reason to accept the possibility that, on a trial basis, exceptions can be made to the requirement that there should be a library in each municipality, and the requirement for professional competence in the libraries, it is because there is good room for it within the law as it is today, and because we would like to see the investigation coming. It's possible that we're too negative, and that this is discord, it gets time to show. At least we have hope that the consequences of such an opportunity for the libraries, which the majority is now going to adopt, will not be as the majority's previous decision two years ago was for the bookbus.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e384	The regulatory time for the evening meeting is now over. However, the President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e387	The working party is very pleased that the uncertainty about public libraries in all municipalities is now more than once for all. There was an uprising when there were doubts about whether there should be a library in each municipality. The libraries have gradually evolved to be much more than just a place to borrow books. It has become a meeting point in the municipality, where small and large are taken, read together and listen together. The staff of the libraries shall be commended for their creativity and commitment. The libraries gather people in the municipalities to present authors and new literature. There are literature seminars, lectures, fairy-tales and narration sessions. All these activities have given the libraries a new content, and people in town and country, old and young, have had a close and good relationship with the libraries. It is then absolutely necessary that the libraries have qualified staff. The Working Party is pleased that the Government has signalled that a large library study should be carried out. The Committee has agreed that both the situation of the prison libraries and the bookbuses are included in this investigation. I will, as deeply as I can, since I represent Hedmark and have pig-grown districts in my county, ask the council to notice that the bookbuses are a dear element in the countryside. They've given many around in our long and pig-grown country an interest in reading and literature, not least among our kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e396	Right wants a strong public library of high quality, time-sales and good user accessibility. Libraries have played a crucial role in public information work in this country. Providing good access to knowledge and literature represents attitudes and values it is important to take into account the age of the information society. Libraries cannot be treated in isolation, but must be seen in the context of a comprehensive policy in which education and research – and museum – constitute an integral part of a culture in which history, literature and knowledge are to be prominent. The library area was also treated in connection with St.meld. No 22 for 1999-2000, Source of knowledge and experience — the so-called ABM message. The right supports the conclusions of this treatment that public libraries should be stimulated for innovation and development. Perhaps in particular this is the case in small municipalities, where resources are relatively limited. The proposals the Government now comes with are a natural follow-up of this. On the right, the liberalisations in the form of pilot schemes are now being introduced and hope that many municipalities will launch pilot schemes that will stimulate library provision. Many of the recordings made during the hearing testified to a lack of confidence that local politicians would give priority to the library offer if they were free to choose this away. This is a position which I do not share with the local politicians. In very many municipalities, we see that local politicians do a good job in cultural policy, even in economically needed situations. Libraries are important institutions that would be a major political burden to choose from locally. Where some cities have tried to close branches, we see quickly that the audience reacts and stands up for their library offer. In the view of the Right, there is no reason to believe that local politicians will treat this field worse than national politicians – on the contrary. If local politicians were unable to meet the rather low requirements of the Library Act, but more clearly had to take a cultural policy responsibility for putting the library on the local agenda, the ingenuity to create a better offer would probably be even greater. The right, therefore, looks forward to our being informed by trial schemes, so that we will have a better qualified basis for further work on the library sector. Whether you live in a large municipality or a small municipality, you will have the same expectations as a library user for the quality of your library. The future library is not just a book lending site. The availability of music, films, magazines and online services will become a natural part of the offer. Here, public libraries are facing major challenges. The path to the seamless library, with information transmission across traditional borders, is long, but necessary. The possibilities offered by the legislative changes in question can shorten the roadway and lead to results if municipalities and county councils seize the chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e415	We live in an exciting time, where there is a raging development in many areas. But there are few areas in society where development can be said to be greater than in terms of knowledge and dissemination. The provision of a library is an important part of the dissemination of knowledge and is therefore highly influenced by developments. For the Progress Party, it is important that the libraries fulfil their intended function in the best possible and most timely manner. The fact that the Stortinge today opens up cooperation between municipalities is really quite undramatic, but at the same time very positive. Many libraries will benefit from more flexible frameworks for how they are organised. Cooperation across municipal boundaries is, in many cases, entirely natural and for the benefit of library users and the distribution responsibility of libraries. New forms of cooperation also provide new opportunities for libraries. The economies of scale and new technologies that have so far been reserved for the largest libraries can now be made available to libraries throughout the country. It should be possible for all libraries to be reached through new electronic channels, as some libraries already have. These are opportunities that should also be made available to groups that do not currently have the Internet. For example, it should be possible for older people to go to the municipality’s service square and to consult paper catalogues or electronic catalogues of the book offer, in order to have the books sent to them. Flexibility and timeliness in library provision are important in many ways. In order to achieve this in the best possible way, it is important not just to look at the completely new solutions. We also have to bring along the good old solutions that have proved to work well. For this reason, it is important for the Progress Party that the bookbuses are also ensured as a natural part of a good library offer for the future. Although much of the future communication to and from libraries will go electronically, a good distribution of books is essential for reaching children, young people and many older people. After all, we live in a country with many hard-to-reach strokes, which I also know well from my home country, Buskerud, where the next visit to the book bus is something many look forward to with great anticipation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e428	It could have been tempting just to join this very good post from the Progress Party on the necessity of both libraries and book buses, but I still intend to say a little. Every community needs a comprehensive and forward-looking library offer. Libraries play a central role in the development of viable municipalities and communities. The proposals for amendments to the law on libraries under consideration open up opportunities for closer cooperation between municipalities and state institutions, and between several municipalities, in order to develop library models that correspond to the expectations we should have today of a modern public library. When such cross-border cooperation is now open, it can only be done on an experimental basis. The requirement to have a library in each municipality shall continue to apply. And the majority of the committee has stated in its comments that it is considered that, by approving cooperation efforts across the municipal borders, the Ministry emphasises that the experiment will strengthen the library offer in the cooperating municipalities. As you know, last year the Ministry of Culture sent out a proposal for amendments to the Library Act at the hearing. This bill went a good deal further than what we currently have to deal with. If the consultation process followed, it can be said above all that it functioned as intended. A proposal to lift the requirement of professional competence for librarians met considerable resistance, despite the fact that the majority of the Stortinget had previously agreed to this. The opposition did not come as a surprise. At a time when information needs are increasing, it is not appropriate to relax the requirements of professional competence. The Christian People's Party has also stated this in the past. The hearing tested the mood. That's what hearings are supposed to be. The same reaction met the proposal to abolish the obligation of municipalities today to have their own library. To order two or more municipalities to join together and establish a common, modern library centre, I am not in doubt if it is a forward-looking idea. The ministry was also quite right that it is unclear whether there is a legal basis for this today. In this case, however, the strongest driver was afraid that the municipalities would see their average to get away from the entire library obligation, and instead prioritized other tasks. Experience has shown that cultural appropriations are easily becoming a balancing item in economically difficult times. So even though the intentions behind the proposal were the best, time is not ripe for it. In reality, library services should therefore remain a statutory service for each municipality. For the Christian People's Party it is absolutely central that the municipalities have a good library offer. We also believe that time is overdue to bet on new, more forward-looking models in the library sector. The development of new technologies requires this. Efforts at decentralised education, increased use of long-term loan services and increasing demand for up-to-date knowledge and access to databases require this. The library should continue to be the main channel of experience, knowledge and culture in any municipality. The library is democratic. It gives all citizens – regardless of their status, economic situation, sex and age – the same right and the same possibility to make use of the offers without payment. In Velferds-Norway it is still such that not everyone can afford to buy. An important prerequisite for everyone to make use of the library is availability. The establishment of major intercommunal library centres can easily increase the distance to the library for some. To fix this, it's interesting, what someone's done: to bet on accommodation services with a special library bus, so that people can get to and from the people's library. The Sola People's Library in Rogaland has gone ahead and shown its way. Others should follow suit. The availability of library services has also been a handicap in the past, especially on the outskirts. In this context, — many of whom have been the subject of this debate — the bookboxes have had an important role to play. Unfortunately, the number of mailboxes has fallen in recent years. However, we still believe it is important to bet on this bookcase offer, and that it should be strengthened. In this context, it is appropriate to consider whether the time has come to draw up a national plan for the book purchase operation. It is for very many reasons positive that the department has now announced a major study work in the library field. In the context of this investigation, it will also be important for municipalities and county councils to be able to try out different cooperation and cooperation solutions. It is therefore important that the legislation does not prevent such solutions. Finally, I note that the proposed changes to the proposal are in line with the ideas and recommendations presented in the ABM Communication and that a broad majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposals. However, there is reason to wonder that the Socialist Left does not want to open up the possibility of developing inter-municipal cooperation solutions in the field of libraries. Not least, this is strange given that during the previous ageing period, in the follow-up to the ABM message, the lot went in to provide funds for testing inter-communal cooperation arrangements in the field of archives and libraries. Although changing the meaning is to the greatest extent permitted, it is difficult to regard SV’s new position as something other than a step backwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e458	Not surprisingly, there was considerable concern about the Ministry's legislative proposals on the amendment of public library laws that were being sent out on a hearing. Many were concerned about whether the municipalities with their poor economy would have the financial capacity to keep up the library services. The People's Library has had and will have a special important role in cultural contexts. The centre party sees the libraries as a welfare asset – to the benefit of everyone – that the free principle is superior. The hearing proposal has created debate and commitment. To the Council of State, it should be said that she has a listening ear, she has taken the hearing statements seriously, and she has presented a legislative amendment that has broad support for the Stortinget. It is good that the Council of State did not allow such a case to go ahead, but chose, in my opinion, a very sensible solution. Opens this option to test alternative methods of organizing library tasks at regional level. The Ministry may grant exemptions from the requirement for a county library in each county municipality, as a pilot project. The legislative changes, which allow for more flexible solutions, are fully supported by the Centre Party. We also support the fact that there can be exceptions to the requirement that there should be a public library in each municipality. This allows local authorities to try out cooperation solutions through inter-municipal cooperation where this is desired, and where it is possible to do so. I think it's an exciting challenge, and it gives municipalities a lot of opportunities. The library field has been notified of the completion of the project by the Center Party. I then assume that important experience from municipalities and county councils that have tried alternative ways of using them will be included in the alert work. The Storting will be able to enter into a more thorough debate on the libraries later. Then we're going to debate both the content and the great value the people's libraries have for most people, and not least what I want to characterize as the modern library. I would like to stress that the Central Party is pleased that the Council of State does not submit a change proposal on requirements for professional staff. I would also like to congratulate the Council of State on its adherence to the current law. Finally, the centre party voted against removing the ear-marked port of bookbuses in its time. The anxiety that the Committee is now expressing when it comes to the fall in the Buchbush Tower, we also expressed when it was removed. I am therefore pleased that a group committee is behind a note that the Government should consider whether a national bookcase plan should be created in conjunction with the large library layout. I think we need both a bookcase plan and a bookcase, it's an important part of the library supply around. And we just have to admit that there are a lot of people in our pig-grown strips who lack this supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e475	The Norwegian public libraries have had a lot to say about the emergence and management of important common values in the Norwegian community. The public libraries have provided literacy and information to generations of nordics, and have acted as gathering places and cultural hubs in the municipalities. Unfortunately, many small public libraries today are being run on savings flares, with inadequate supply and limited opening hours. At the same time, the whole library sector faces major challenges, including: with a view to increasing the use of new technologies, substantial innovation and creativity requirements are being made. Therefore, it is important that you look at the structure of the library network, so that you can make the best use of resources and maintain a qualitative and timely library. In this context, we will work out the entire library field in one place, so that you can look at the benefits of closer interaction between public libraries and academic and research libraries. We will start this work in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, and it will be led by ABM development. As part of this, last year the Ministry of Culture and the Church issued a hearing note on proposals for changes to the law on public libraries. The proposals were important when engaging in debate, and the previous speaker said it was not expected to be much worried. I have to say that I was very surprised by all the reactions, because what was the basis of the proposal was something quite different than how it was perceived. But I also want to say that the debate was constructive, and he shows that the libraries have a central place in society. The ministry received over 250 hearings, and the proposal received wide publicity in the media. The debate is mainly linked to two of the amendments. The one proposal opens up for greater cooperation in the provision of libraries, while the current law requires each municipality to have a dedicated public library. The second proposal was to remove the requirement of the law on the professional library manager in municipal libraries and in county libraries. I understand the objections and the anxiety these two proposals have created – in retrospect at least. Therefore, I have not chosen to follow them up in the proposed odelstingsproposition. The original proposal expressed a desire to improve the library supply to people around the country, because we have to admit that the supply of many places is not what it should be, even with the clear laws that exist. But in accordance with most of the listening remarks, I have come to realize that the most useful thing will be to evaluate all the substantive changes in the light of the collective review that it is intended to start soon. Any changes to the law that a follow-up to the pending disclosure may take some time, but it is still wise to make some changes now. Among other things, I would like to facilitate experimentation with cooperative constellations, which may be followed up with further promises in the next round. So I want to insist on the requirement for a public library in each municipality and county library in each county municipality, but with the possibility of granting exemptions in a trial context. Although there was a bad perception of the hearing proposal that the municipalities would be free to shut down the library, the media debate showed that the time is not ripe for a change that would have opened up to such an extended cooperative activity. The aim of the amendment was to remove obstacles to the organisation of public library services and make the best possible use of resources. I still mean that a library of a certain size is required to fill a wide range of tasks in the future. The premises, collections and equipment must be able to cover many purposes. They must have good professional skills, and opening hours must be so liberal that people can get there when they need it. Intermunicipal library cooperation can be a rational solution in many places. I now propose that ABM development may grant exemptions from the requirement for libraries in each municipality, so that one can try out organisation that also involves co-location. But the objective, as the Committee also says, must be to strengthen library services. We have all the good examples that enhanced cooperation between municipalities can provide good library solutions. For example, Tønsberg and Nøtterøy have such well-functioning cooperation. It also opens up for cooperation on library services with state institutions, such as government agencies. higher education institutions or institutions of archives. A large number of hearing authorities further warn against removing the competence requirement for librarians in municipalities and county libraries. Many think that removing the competence requirement will give an unfortunate signal at a time when libraries are in great need of new and up-to-date skills, for example. in the field of information and communication technologies and in the context of continuing training reforms. With almost unlimited access to information, professional assistance is also needed to find relevant and quality access. I have assessed the received statements and I propose not to lift the competence requirement. I am pleased with the work that has been done, and I am pleased with the proposal that we have now sent to Stortinget. We've had a fruitful process, which I'm overestimated that all the parties have switched on. The process will continue, first of all by the distribution we want to include, but also through the insights we get through the sample schemes. We need the People's Library as much tomorrow as we did yesterday. But we need a people's library to give users the best they can do. The legislative proposal is a step in that direction. I thank the Stortinget for supporting the proposals that have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e490	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e494	I said in my post that this might bear the mark of being a skin debate, and I think it might be. I am at least of the opinion that the Council of State and the SV have quite common ideas about where to go in the future. Nevertheless, when we have a fear and a suspicion of what is now present, it may be unfounded, but I must also say that we do not feel alone about that fear. The feedback we have received from large parts of the Library-Norway shows that there are a lot of people who see the same signals as we do. When Lånke says that we have changed our position and that we cannot support inter-municipal cooperation, I say in my post that we support everything. There are two things I don't want to change now – and I'm absolutely looking forward to the distribution – and that's the competence requirement and library in each municipality. Why so haste? When it comes to what Loan pointed out, there is nothing in today's law that prevents this from being realised. In that case, I have to ask: what has to be changed in today's law to do that? We have examples from e.g.. Tønsberg, where this has happened, and it has happened within today's law. We're not opposed to such solutions, but there's two ways to view this. One more thing we're saying is yes, and that's quality, quality, quality, and the other is saving, saving, saving, and we're saying no to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e505	I will not contribute to extending this debate overtime. I just want to say to this last remark that there has been no need for a change in the law to open up inter-municipal cooperation, that it is at least contrary to the assessment made by the ministry in this regard, and that is why one also wants to create a basis for such an experiment to be conducted. I am aware that there has been an intermunicipal library in Nøtterøy and Tjøme. It's even a very patternable and great library, but it's enough to say that it's happened even though the law doesn't really open up to it. Now you want to give a clear basis, and that's something other than that you've had a slightly unclear legal situation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e512	Yeah, if that's what it's actually going to be. On behalf of SV, I would like to say that such establishments as what has happened down there, we have nothing against it. We'll be able to do that as long as the quality of it is guaranteed, and in that it's the vision: why such haste? The other thing that I wanted to comment on is the concern of the bookcases, which the Right, the Labour Party and the Advance Party have expressed several times. In the municipal bill two years ago, the earmarked grants were removed, and warnings from the intermediate parties and SV that this was going to be bad for the mailboxes were still implemented. Sheli mentioned here that you had to trust the local politicians. It can then be seen that a consequence of the local economy today, with non-statutory measures, is that the mailboxes are vulnerable. The consequence is that there is now a unanimous decision that a national bookcase plan should be drawn up. It should arouse thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e519	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1024]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e534	The first speaker is Mr Lilletun, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e537	I am not a case spokesman, but I am presenting the case to the case manager when he is in Lagtinget. Last year, Norway chose not to impose sanctions against Zimbabwe during the elections, but instead chose to proceed with the Norwegian election observers as its priority. A collective committee believes this helped to ensure independent documentation from the choice. Reports in 2002 show that, in the run-up to the presidential elections, there were serious discriminatory changes in election laws and that the opposition was prevented from being transparent and involved in the electoral process. Many voters were prevented from giving their voice. The opposition was prevented from running an electoral campaign in several places. The opposition was subjected to extensive political power and harassment, and several politically motivated killings were carried out. A joint committee expresses concern that this political repression has continued to increase in some cases in time. President Mugabe and his ZANU-PF party are behind widespread violations of human rights, including human rights. politically motivated killings, torture, arbitrary arrests, repression of the right to attend meetings and intimidation of justice and the media. The President and the Secretary-General of the Opposition Party are dubiously accused of high treason, and are at risk of death penalty. All foreign correspondents are now expelled from the country. Heavyly armed police and soldiers went last week to attack people who demonstrated against the oppressive regime. Zimbabwe is currently in a social, economic and political crisis. The formerly most productive country in southern Africa currently has 269pst inflation. There is almost an acute shortage of food, petrol and money, which has made everyday life very difficult for every individual. The dissatisfaction with poverty and oppression is increasing, while President Mugabe himself lives a life of luxury. Based on these factors, there is a basis for specific actions and international pressure directed at leadership in Zimbabwe, although no decision has been taken on this in the UN Security Council. Norway has imposed sanctions four times in the past without any binding decisions on this in the Security Council. It applies to measures against Iran in 1980 due to the US hostages, to Argentina in the context of the Falklands War, to measures against South Africa and Namibia in 1986 and 1987 due to apartheid, and to measures against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the light of Kosovo. The sanctions imposed against Zimbabwe now shall be targeted and, as far as possible, shall not affect the civilian population of Zimbabwe. In order to protect and help the civilian population, it is still necessary to provide assistance to the people of Zimbabwe. This assistance is channelled through non-governmental actors and the UN. The aim of protecting the civilian population was also underlined in the debates during the hearing. Measures that have now been proposed are to refuse visas to President Mugabe and his co-workers, to freeze their bank accounts and real estate outlets in Norway and a general ban on the export of arms to the country, technical training or supply, manufacture, maintenance or use of weapons and associated materials of all kinds. The Norwegian measures now being implemented are in line with the EU’s stance against Zimbabwe. A group committee major measures. Penalties are only one of many measures. In order for changes to take place, it is crucial that Zimbabwe's neighbouring country, in particular South Africa, exert pressure on the regimes in Zimbabwe with demands for change. It could put additional pressure on the regimes in Zimbabwe to stop the political repression that is now increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e554	I naturally agree with what was said by the representative Lilletun. It is a coherent setting in accordance with what the Government has presented as a proposal. I shall not go into the situation in Zimbabwe in concrete terms. I only have one short comment, which is related to what Lilletun said about previous decisions to restrict relations with other countries, and about sanctions against other countries. In the debate we had three years ago, the Stortinge gave the Government an opportunity to implement such measures even without going to the Stortinge if necessary for the sake of time. The powers are, of course, as they used to be. Now the government has had time to present it, and I appreciate that it has happened. This law also gives room to go beyond the concrete actions of the case-speaker. I just want to say that as far as there is advice, I hope that the Government will consult with the Storting if it would be appropriate to proceed with concrete measures. Then there's a legal basis here that allows you to avoid going to Stortinget with a new law, but with a home in the law that is now being signed, you can move on if necessary. We're going to hope that it won't be necessary, but that the Government will consult with the Storting before taking any further steps in this area. It's of two kinds. The only thing is that I think most of the parties are clear in terms of trying to avoid using economic and other sanctions against other countries. Positive agents should be used. Therefore, a case-by-case approach should be carefully considered. The second reason is that we are still stressing that there should be a United Nations mandate for such measures, but we make exceptions when we do it together with the rest of Europe, and indeed many countries outside Europe. At the same time, we should maintain that the UN mandate for such measures is normal, and therefore that we deal with each case separately, even when new measures are implemented. This was not an entry to reserve against what was there, but to hold on to the line that actually started three years ago, when this permission law was given to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e569	The purpose of this article is, in so far, nothing more than to confirm a consensus with Haakon Blankenburg on these issues. I fully agree with him that the basic principle is the UN decision, but at the same time it is important that we also reserve the opportunity to go along with, for example. close European countries. I think it is very important that if sanctions are to be applied, against which there are many counter-conceptions, there must be a reasonable degree of scope in order for it to be effective at all. Therefore, it is very important that sanctions are not a kind of spinal reflex in a reaction to phenomena that you do not like, but that it is precisely targeted and thoughtful in relation to the country and the conflict you are facing. Just in such a perspective, consultation with the bodies of the Grand Duchy will be the right form of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e576	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5 [[Footage, see page 1024]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e592	The Dublin Convention is now being replaced by the Dublin II Regulation. It means certain changes to the Foreign Law of Norway. That's what this is all about today. The actual amendments to the Regulation mean that the time-limits between the countries in order to arrive at who is to be responsible for an asylum seeker and the application to the applicant are now strengthened. It is also new that if one does not keep a deadline in important areas, it is equated with acceptance of responsibility. This means faster processing of applications, which is positive for all parties. Overall, a 14-week reduction in the length of proceedings is estimated. What is very positive about the change is that family concerns are strengthened. The Committee is also pleased that the Regulations strengthen single minor asylum seekers. Furthermore, the distribution of responsibilities between countries is more clearly defined. The Central Party and the Left Party point out that the hearing period in this case has been short. He has been, but the regulations will apply from 1 September 2003, i.e. before the Grand Duchy comes together again. The letter of hearing expired on 21 March, and 26 bodies made their views known without objecting to the relevant changes in the Foreign Act and Foreign Regulations. However, some of these hearing bodies, at least one, have general objections to certain possible negative outcomes of the Dublin Regulation. A broad number of members of the Committee stress that no one should be returned if they risk prosecution and that the principle of non-refoulement is expressly enshrined in the Regulation's adjudication. It is important for the Christian People's Party to emphasize that this is the case. The same majority also stresses the need for Norway to pursue a refugee policy that ensures that the right to asylum is effective and that asylum seekers are assured of their need for protection. I recommend the consensual recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e615	SV is going to vote for the legislative proposals. But there are some themes where there is a need for a little comment. First, the consultation round: The fact that the Government and the majority conclude that there are few objections from the hearing bodies is, to put it nicely, to be honest, because most of them say that they have had such a short time that they have not had time to get into the case, and therefore they have no comments. So taking it to income for the matter is not entirely in line with how I would at least conclude in such a case. The second is that there has been a very short hearing here. If we remember two or three cases in this Chamber today, we had another case in which the Council of State argued well that there should be a consultation round, especially in matters which could affect both international conventions by which we are obliged, and which concern matters relating to parents and children being together. The use of Dublin mechanisms can go right into the heart of that theme. That's why we believe that there would have been reason to have an equally long consultation round on this, precisely because this is a maritime matter that needs to be clarified in relation to these conventions, but also in relation to maritime policy, what Norway will practice in these matters. SV believes that Norway does not necessarily have the world to boast about taking children into account, for example: Deportation cases, either now using the Dublin mechanism or using the general administrative decisions taken. There is too little emphasis on the considerations that the Council of State was very concerned about in the previous case. It has, for example, has been a matter that has been debated very strongly in the media lately, where family members are split and sent to different countries, and where there are children in the family as well. The SV and the Central Party are alone in a comment that SV is very surprised that we have been left alone, namely that the Norwegian authorities are responsible on a maritime basis for ensuring that the countries actually comply with their obligations in practice as well, and that return should not occur when there is doubt about a country’s practice. This is not about us just following our obligations on the paper. Seeing that a country has signed such a convention does not necessarily mean that it complies with its obligations. We know that in Europe there is now a very strong pressure on the institution of asylum in very many countries, where there are very strong restrictions, which are different from Norwegian policy. When the majority say that one should actually be assured, and the government also says that they should make sure that no one is sent back to a country where they can be indirectly persecuted because they will be sent out or returned to a country, we believe that this obligation is not fulfilled if one does not investigate on a maritime basis that this is actually happening. Norwegian authorities must take responsibility for this. SV notes that the government says they should do it on paper, but when it comes to practice, it seems as if they are going back a little. This comment is therefore not about the disagreement between SV and the Government as to whether it is right to send Czech asylum seekers with Greek visas back to Greece. There is a real disagreement between SV and the Government. But I hope that there is no real disagreement between the Swedish Government and the SV and the majority that in practice you have a responsibility to check that what you say you should do is actually happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e630	Let me make it clear that I agree with the criticism regarding the short deadline for consultation. The background is that, with the connection we have to Schengen, this becomes the Norwegian law in force in September. The short consultation period is set for the Storting to take the formal decisions, so that they are part of the Norwegian law before the date when the law actually applies in Norway. We think it's okay that it's in Norwegian law, when it's actually going to be the current procedure and what we've joined. It makes me think that we should only have such short consultation periods by way of exception. But I understand the hearing body that has problems speaking with such a short deadline. Let me say that this is an important matter for Norway. The Dublin Convention, as it works today, takes a very long time. We have opted for supposed groundless applicants not to use the Dublin Convention, because the procedure is faster when we do it ourselves. We can faster return people. One avoids having to sit, as now, up to six months and wait for another country to complete its procedures to receive them. This costs as known relatively much, according to the revised national budget. 21 pst. of the decisions taken in 2002 in respect of asylum seekers, they concerned asylum seekers who were returned to another Dublin country because of the Dublin Code. Then it's a pretty large number if this process takes a long time. Therefore, it is really a joyous change, which is supposed to make this go faster in Norway. I just want to stress that we are actually doing what the representative Karin Andersen says. We make an independent assessment of the compliance of other countries with these conventions. That is why I stopped forwarding to Greece in the winter of 2001-2002, because there was a question mark on Greece's practice in relation to the Chechens. There were both rounds in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and a decision was taken to ensure that the Czechs in question had not been returned, but they have received a residence permit in Greece. It is not a question of the practice in Greece but also of the treatment that asylum seekers receive in Greece. It is significantly different from the treatment they receive in Norway in relation to benefits and the possibility of living in the country. I do not think that is a basis for suspending the use of the Dublin Convention. On the other hand, it is quite clear that we have an independent basis to ensure that no one is sent out, including by using the Dublin Convention, in situations where their protection needs are not met. But we have no clear indication that any of the countries we have assessed in that context have actually done so. We have also asked to be documented by the organisations that have worked on this. I would like to stress that in that area it is such that when my secretary of state went to Greece and met the Greek Helsinki Committee, they were pleased with the work we did, that we sent Chechens back to Greece for assessment, and that we pressed and followed so closely with what the authorities did in relation to this. In fact, it helped to raise Greece’s focus on asylum treatment, instead of allowing a country that may sometimes speculate a little in its own asylum treatment and the long time it takes to win in terms of burden-sharing, and to continue to have poor treatment and, if necessary, not proper treatment. It is therefore sometimes important that we lower our feet to other countries and say that we follow what they do, that we examine with the High Commissioner what their actual practice is, and that we follow individual decisions. We will continue to do that, so that in Europe we will have better overall treatment for asylum seekers than is the case today. In this context, Norway is very different from many of the countries of southern Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e643	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1025]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e659	The first speaker is Torbjørn Hansen, who has the floor for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e662	The Financial Committee has examined Ot. pp. No 92 amending the Act on Petroleum Taxation. There are important changes that are made when the removal grant law is now repealed and replaced by mechanisms that allow removal costs to be treated instead as deductible costs within the ordinary petroleum tax system in line with normal operating costs, and not least that in addition, arrangements are put in place to enable the tax value of uncovered losses arising from removal costs to be paid upon cessation of activity. It is therefore gratifying that there is an overall committee which concludes on all the proposals of the Government in such an important matter for a very important industry, and that in this way the Committee continues with broad political support for the changes that are being made at all times in the Norwegian petroleum tax. The Law of 15 June 2001 introduced a number of amendments to the Petroleum Tax Act which substantially eliminate the justification for having a separate removal grant law. Access was then given to the carrying-over of interest-rate deficits and to the possibility of transferring tax losses in the case of mergers and transfers. It is important that the changes for removal costs come now. Removal costs will have an ever-increasing magnitude of the pedestal in the coming years. These are usually significant and often very high amounts, and these changes in the law mean an increase in the security of companies' effective tax deductions for these expenditures. These changes will also mean significant simplification. The current grant scheme has been very low in predictability for the companies. It has raised many demarcation issues and made it necessary to have its own parallel rules and systems in addition to the tax rules, and as such has been burdensome and bureaucratic both for the companies and for the authorities. For this reason, too, it is important not to continue the removal grant law as an optional scheme, as this would mean two complex legislation in the future with significant administrative costs. However, transitional rules are laid down so that agreements for the acquisition of companies with removal obligations where the grant treatment of the removal grant law has been an essential element of the agreement may require transitional arrangements. During the work on legislative changes, the Government has also assessed the possibility of deducting provisions to cover future removal costs. The Committee supports the Government’s view not to deduct provisions. This could lead to highly unbridled tax credits, a lot of supervisory work for the equality authorities, and not least judgement decisions with the possibility of increasing the number of disputes. Consequently, it would be appropriate to continue the second paragraph of Section 3(g) of the Petroleum Tax Act, so that deduction can only be made when the expenditure is actually incurred. However, the Committee’s view is that this also follows from the third paragraph of Section 14-4 of the Tax Act. Access to the transfer of deficits with interest on transfers introduced in 2001 provides for the possibility for companies that would withdraw from the Norwegian base to maintain the tax value of the deficits, provided that it is a well-functioning market. In the foreseeable future, such a market will exist, but in order to further increase the security of tax credit, it is an important change that the tax value of the loss on termination arising from removal costs can be disbursed from the country. The current changes are both improvements and not least simplifications in the current regulatory framework. It could provide incentives for increased interest in marginal fields and fields in the mature phase and thus provide an opportunity to increase interest in activities on a Norwegian base both from smaller companies and from new companies. The unanimous vote is therefore recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e681	The case spokesperson has now done the right thing, so it should not be necessary to go into the individual points. I still want to stress that we think this is a good proposal. It also applies to the proposal that the tax advantage on losses written off from removal costs be paid by the State when the company ceases to be taxable. This is a sensible rule, which facilitates increased extraction on a Norwegian base. This is because the rule removes an economic incentive to shut down production prematurely, while revenue is large enough to cover the removal costs. However, we are of the opinion that a corresponding rule should apply where removal costs result in a deficit each year. In our opinion, such a rule would further contribute to the maximum use of resources from the Norwegian socket. But we take note in this round that there are not multiples for such a change, and we will therefore support the setting in its wholeness.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e690	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1025]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e706	Let me first address the proposals that the Labour Party has made, and the proposals on which the Labour Party is with other parties. In this position of the Financial Committee, there is broad agreement on all points in relation to what the Government has presented. Then the proposers raised some tax questions as well. I want to focus on two important things in the setting where you make changes. This applies primarily to the so-called NOKUS rules. There have been some questions in writing to the Committee on this matter from different companies, and there has also been a lot of progress in the hearings that have taken place in the context of the revised national budget. Companies under Norwegian control in countries with low taxation are so-called NOKUS companies. Specific tax rules apply to these companies. The NOKUS code implies that Norwegian owners are taxed directly for their share of the company’s net profit or loss. The profit or loss of the companies is determined in accordance with the rules of Norwegian tax law as if the company were a taxpayer. This means that Norwegian shareholders are taxed directly for their share of the company’s profits. If the company is in deficit, Norwegian shareholders may deduct their share of the deficit from their general income, including income from Norwegian sources. Compared to similar rules in other countries, the Norwegian rules are very liberal. The favourable rules may allow the use of the regulatory framework for tax-motivated adaptations. The overall results of the NOKUS companies may indicate that the rules are too favourable. The net results of the NOKUS companies have been negative since the introduction of the rules. The Government proposes to amend the rules so that losses in the NOKUS companies cannot be deducted from the general income of Norwegian shareholders, but can only be carried over against subsequent profits in the same company. The Labour Party and the majority of the Committee believe that this will help to close a gap in the tax rules. We can't see that it's necessary to maintain today's rules. So move on to another important issue that has also been raised in the Financial Committee, namely the law on permitting. We have had major debates in Stortinget, and it will also be Friday when we discuss the revised national budget, in connection with the increase in unemployment and the measures to be taken in connection with it. The Committee has also looked at the rules on leave in this regard, and we have proposed to the Government to amend them. Today, companies have the opportunity to permit employees for 26 weeks. Some industries have exceptions and may leave employees on their notice for a longer period of time. The working party believes that a period of 26 weeks should normally be long enough, but there is a need to allow a longer period of leave in some industries to prevent the enterprises in these industries from having to terminate those with valuable skills, which can thus disappear from the industry. We therefore proposed this in our alternative budget. The Committee agreed to propose legislative changes to allow the Government to grant derogations from the 26-week rule. The Committee assumes that the Ministry shall provide for derogations and that the regulation shall apply from 1 July 2003. Employees who, during the last 18 months, have been wholly or partly on leave without pay for 26 weeks together are entitled to pay and other work compensation from the employer for the excess leave period. The Ministry may provide for the possibility of extending the period of 26 weeks before the employer’s obligation to pay re-enter certain industries. In the case of daily allowances which may be provided for up to 26 weeks during a period of 18 months in the case of full or partial leave by the same employer, we suggest that the Ministry may provide for the possibility of extending the period of entitlement to daily allowances for persons on leave in certain industries. So over to some of the suggestions that the Workers' Party is travelling. We are resuming the divisional model introduced, as we know, by the 1992 tax reform. The sharing model has repeatedly been changed here in Stortinget, mainly in a modest direction. The result is that both the motives and the possibilities for adjusting to the sharing model have increased considerably by making what is actually a return on labour tax to be taxed as capital income. It is socio-economically unfortunate if large resources are spent on adaptations whose main purpose is precisely to save taxes. Another unfortunate aspect of the system is that actual income balancing through the tax system is severely weakened. The Labour Party believes that current rules result in too little income being taxed as income and too much as general income. We are therefore in favour of tightening the rules, so that a greater part of the income of non-liberal enterprises is taxed as personal income. This is done by changing the tariff rules by taxing revenue up to 23 G and income above 75 G as revenue, while taxing revenue between 23 G and 75 G as general income. We are making proposals on this point, but we are also looking forward to the debate on taxes coming in the spring of 2004. In terms of tightening up the rules on the taxation of options in employment, we also propose a change in the law. The working party believes that the current model for the taxation of options in employment provides a tax credit that primarily benefits corporate management and highly paid employees. The working party is sceptical about the use of options as remuneration, because this contributes to greater inequality, with negative effects on wage formation and increased problems with insider dealing. An option represents an economic advantage for the employee and should be treated as cash pay. The proposed curtailment means that the advantage of options is taxed as remuneration on redemption or sale. Today, the option advantage may be distributed over all years of income from the year of acquisition up to and including the year of redemption or sale. Finally, a little bit about the discount on unlisted shares, shares listed on the SME list and basic fund certificates. Here we also propose a change. For the purposes of calculating property taxes on unlisted shares, they are valued at 65 p.m. the tax base of the shares. The property value, which is based on the tax base of the assets, will normally be significantly lower than the real value of the shares. SMB listed shares at Oslo Stock Exchange are valued at 65 pst. the price value. The working party goes in to raise the valuation to 80 pst. the tax base of unlisted companies and 80 pst. the price value of shares listed on the SME list. Also basic fund certificates must be valued at 80 pst. the price value. The background to promoting these proposals now is that over a long period of time, we have clearly seen that there are not only opportunities here, but it is also important to correct distortions in our tax system when we see the outbursts of distribution elsewhere in society. And it's important to distribute in such a way that we can maintain a real public sector in both schools and kindergartens, and meet the increasing unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e742	The representative Tore Nordtun has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e745	The rapporteur, Tore Nordtun, has, as usual, explained the Committee's position, which is unanimous in many areas. The revised budget is, as you know, a revision of the national budget of the year, and thus the minor changes under consideration today. The government's change of tax policy, which has so far resulted in tax reductions of around DKK 20 billion, is to a small extent affected in this proposition. The proposal proposes to tighten the so-called NOKUS rules on direct taxation of net profit or loss in companies under Norwegian control in countries with a low tax level. Compared to the corresponding rules in other countries, the Norwegian rules relating to the right of deduction for deficits are liberal and the favourable rules make it possible to make use of the legislation for tax-based adaptations. The Government therefore proposes to amend the NOKUS rules so that deficits can no longer be deducted from other income, but must be carried over against subsequent profits in the same company. In addition to making the tax system fairer and more in line with tax systems in other comparable countries, the change leads to major simplifications by eliminating, in part, complex calculations of over- and under-priced acquisitions. With regard to the deduction of trade union quotas, I would like to emphasise the satisfaction that this is increased to NOK 1450. Satisfaction is due to the fact that the trade union movement, in cooperation with the Government and industry, has joined a moderate wage settlement for 2003. This is a fundamental prerequisite for improving the competitiveness of business, and the fact that the Government has contributed to this is very positive. The Permitment Act is adapted by a unanimous committee to the current situation with increasing unemployment, by empowering the Ministry to extend the 26-week leave period within certain industries. This can be a good contribution in cyclical industries that have been affected by extraordinary interest rate and currency conditions. The yard industry may be such an area. At the same time, we need to recognise that there are enough factors other than the rules on leavement which determine whether some industries have a basis for growth and value creation and employment growth in Norway in the years to come. The majority of the Committee also proposes an increase in the legal fee of DKK 40. I would like to stress that this is an unwanted fee increase that has several adverse effects, including: by an increase in the material disclosure fee. The reason is that the majority of social security funds have announced an increase in the basic amount in addition to the government’s arrangements. This is a permanent expenditure increase. It is also the case that the Progress Party does not participate in the collection of expenses agreed by the Party together with the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Progress Party should perhaps listen more to the only professional economist who has so far supported the Party's economic policy, namely economist Torgeir Højen. What he said at the national meeting of the Progress Party on the relationship between the increase in public expenditure and the increase in taxes and taxes is well documented in this setting. It is almost a bit strange to see that the Progress Party, with its history in the tax field, is today the party that is leading the way in increasing public expenditure as in the next round of ports trapped by taxpayers. In addition, there are some minority proposals from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left to increase taxes and taxes on business. This applies to the costs of treatment paid by employers, to increased taxes on traders by tightening up the divisional model, to increased taxes on wealth on enterprises not listed on Oslo Børs’ main list, to increased taxes on options in employment and, finally, to double taxes on dividends on shares. It is clear that the revenue generated by these tax increases is to be used in the fight against increasing unemployment. Now it is precisely in business that unemployment is increasing, and then it becomes a little incomprehensible how the left-hand side should fight against increasing unemployment by increasing the burden on already hard-pressed businesses. Some of the explanations may be given in the debate of the head of the Socialist Left Party, Kristin Halvorsen, in Tønsberg's sheet on 14 June, where it says: ‘One of the steps in SV’s industrial policy is to introduce tax on dividends on shares. This does not affect business.’» It is claimed, therefore, that increased taxes on equity do not affect business. And this claim comes from parties that want to create billions of funds just to support companies that have problems with access to equity, and from parties that complain when Norwegian companies are sold abroad because of weak Norwegian ownership environments. For business, it is relatively indifferent whether tax increases take the form of increased taxes on dividends or in the form of increased taxes on profits. In fact, values disappear, thus weakening the basis for increased value creation and employment. It is satisfactory that the majority support most of the Government's proposals in this proposition. With regard to the broad lines of fiscal policy, there is little doubt that the debate on this issue will be fully strengthened in the consideration of the next year’s government budget and in the treatment of the Tax Law Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e772	The Norwegian economy is known for its very negative development. We have increasing unemployment, and we are currently also experiencing negative growth in the economy. The decline in interest rates that we've seen in recent years has also failed to reverse this trend. It is therefore quite clear that there is a need for a monthly reduction in the peculiar level of taxation in order to improve the Norwegian economy and reverse this trend. In view of this situation, it is sad that the changes in this case are mainly tax sharps and not tax picks. The most serious tax tightening proposed is the proposal to change the tax regime for companies under Norwegian control in low tax countries, known as the NOKUS. The party of progress is concerned that business must have a stable and sustainable framework. Many Norwegian companies have invested abroad in the last few years on the basis of the framework conditions that existed at the time of the investment. By the fact that the majority now decides to change the NOKUS rules negatively, to a retrospectively, many investments will suddenly appear less favourable than they appeared at the time of the investment. The consequences of this change have been relatively small, and the change has not been sent out to the audience as the Government's distribution instructions indicate. This means that the majority do not have an overview of the consequences of this proposal. in the case of Norwegian investment will abroad. The Party of Progress will therefore, of course, vote against this change. The majority also participate in this proposition in order to increase the legal fee by approx. 6 pst. This is, in our opinion, an unsocial proposal that will greatly affect those with the worst economy. It will include: affect people with payment problems that have issues that are brought in for, among others. the Conciliation Board, by increasing the legal fee. We therefore thought it sought that the government party and the supporting party in this case, the Workers' Party and SV, send the bill to these people. Of course, we want to go towards this increase. The progress party also has some own suggestions that I will briefly go through. One is that current practice of charging installations for the transmission and distribution of electricity yields some very different results, depending on who carries out the tariff. We would like a more uniform practice here and therefore propose a review of this issue. We also have a proposal that relates to adjustments in tonnage tax, in particular to currency taxation. This is a proposal which, if agreed, would make the Norwegian tonnage tax scheme more in line with other European schemes. Finally, I would like to make my suggestions to the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e791	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the proposals he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e794	I just thought I'd comment on a couple of the points in the proposition, because, as the case manager said, we're pretty much a few in all the government has submitted. Then we have some suggestions that we are all a few about, and then we have some suggestions that the individual party is behind. I'll first comment on the 26-week rule. I'm very happy that a whole bunch of people agree that some industries will be exempted from the 26-week rule, and with effect from July 1st this year. This has been a requirement that industry has highlighted as one of the most important now in our day, and the reactions of these environments to the release of the odelstation proposition have also been very positive to this very decision. Large parts of our business life are in a very difficult period, especially that part of our business that is related to industry. This industry is well used to oscillating, but this time it may seem as if there are stronger forces and more structural changes going on. Within the industry, there are, and there are, huge redundancies going on, and these are enterprises that need to recruit people with competence from a larger regional area. Termination means that competence is gradually changing and shifting, and it may be difficult to replace this type of competence in the future if negative developments persist. We have to believe that it will turn around again, and it is only a few years since one of the biggest problems this industry has faced was getting at enough competent people. If we now get extensive rounds of cancellations, it's even worse to fill this need for competence when the negative developments turn around and the orders come in. With a six-month leave period, either the company will have to take them in again without new orders – and it's not particularly economic – or they will have to go to cancellations. Before that, one could wait for the market to come back, and at least up to one year to hold on to the skills and to the workforce. So now the government is given the possibility that they can look at the rules and look at the industries that might need to be adapted and use the regulatory framework flexibly. I want to modulate the Government to apply the legislation immediately. The social partners, NHO and LO, have also sent letters to the Prime Minister requesting the same. All parties must contribute to the fight against unemployment. The government, together with the social partners, needs to find solutions to help keep cost developments down. However, this should not be done in such a way as to enhance the evolution of society. When employees now show willingness to moderate, tax relief to high pay and constantly increase in top managers' wages must be prevented. Nor should the requirement for moderation be used to deny social security and low-paid fair and necessary improvements in their living conditions. The SV's plan against unemployment, which we will come closer to on Friday, has such a clear re-priority, from private consumption to important Community projects, which help to get unemployed hands at work — and which are funded by, among others. tax on dividends on shares. That is what we are proposing in this position. We see that the proposal acts as a temporary arrangement until we have dealt with the work of the Skage Commission, which has just proposed a new dividend tax system. I have to comment on Right and Torbjørn Hansen's comment on our resistance to tax exemptions for employer-paid treatment insurance. There are not many weeks since the government party and the Right hosted many negative opinions on the proposal for tax exemptions for kindergarten places that were in the kindergarten agreement here in Stortinget – before the government party found it too good to be in it. I should like to hear Right explain the fundamental difference in the two proposals – why tax exemptions on the employer’s paid kindergarten are so terrible, while tax exemptions on the employer’s paid treatment insurance are so much better. I'm sorry, but I can't see that that's the big difference in principle. SV has admitted that we are not happy with the tax exemption for kindergarten, because it is not in line with our tax policy, but it was part of a settlement. We've admitted it. But the government party has argued hard against one and very hot for the other, without us hearing that there is any fundamental difference. I can't understand it, but maybe the Right people can explain it to me either today or on a later occasion. – Then I take up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e825	The representative Heidi Grande Røys has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e828	The struggle to secure and create jobs is job no. 1 for the Christian People's Party and the government parties now. Export-oriented industry is struggling. International competition is a major challenge. One of several important and decisive measures in the fight to secure jobs is income policy cooperation between the Government and the social partners. An overall committee supports the Government’s proposal to increase the deduction of paid trade union quota from DKK 1100 to DKK 1450 for the 2003 income year. The proposal was made as part of income policy cooperation. Although all parties support this increase in the deduction, the Progress Party notes that they are critical of this deductibility. The party that normally supports most of the proposals for lower taxes is therefore critical in this case. For the Christian People's Party and the government parties, this change is a small tax haven for ordinary people, while it is a tribute to successful and vitally important income policy cooperation. It is gratifying and right that there will be a majority for a tight budget. The government's policy for a lower crown price and a lower interest rate works in the fight to secure jobs. It is also important to maintain competence in short-term business cycles. Therefore, it is also good that the Government has been given the opportunity to extend the period of leave in exceptional cases. There is also a majority of good employment measures to create new jobs. It is gratifying that there will not be a majority to remove the tax exemption for gifts to non-governmental organisations, as proposed by the Labour Party. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it would have been totally wrong if savings were to affect Freedom Norway. The tax deduction for gifts to non-governmental organisations is a good investment in volunteering, hard work and welfare work in our country. With regard to the disclosure of the work on evaluating the rules on public tax lists, it is gratifying that there is a majority in favour of a comment that states that, in the design of the rules, the most appropriate balance between the transparency of the equality management and the transparency of the one hand and the key data protection considerations of the other. Or in another way: openness is important to prevent abuse of power and injustice, and personal interest is central to avoiding gaping mentality, especially in relation to the low-income groups. This must be taken into account in the design of the rules, so that it does not become a sport to go online to get information about who serves at least in the street where a person lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e841	I am not going to extend the debate, but we have some proposals that I want to make. And it's now such that our Lord will take care of whether we're going to be at sea and earn money or not. There's no automatic in that we get a check in the mailbox every 14 days or every month. For all fishermen it is necessary to set aside money in good times and to deduct it in bad times. We have then made proposals in the Financial Committee. I do not wish to extend the debate, but that is the reason why we have tabled these proposals. I take up the proposals that we have made on our own, and those that we are with the Progress Party on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e850	The representative Steinar Bastisen has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e853	Bjørg Tørresdal was very in doubt as to why we were critical of the union deduction, when we are too tax havens in most areas. Because we are, I'm going to explain very quickly. The trade union deduction gives a very limited amount of tax relief, while providing additional work for tax payers, providing more work for employers, providing more work for trade unions, and providing more work for the equality offices. We want tax laws for everyone, but we also want simple tax laws that most people can apply to, so that there will be the least possible work for the actors I'm talking about here. That's why we're in favour of general taxation, but we don't want the trade union deduction to be increased. But when this is done as part of the cooperation between the Government and the actors in the world of work, we take note of it, and neither do we oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e860	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 1026]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e868	The odelsting should then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e941	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e951	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1075	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1085	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1126	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1136	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1156	B, C and D shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1184	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1228	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1238	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1280	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1290	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1341	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1351	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1484	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1494	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1501	In the course of the debate, there are nine proposals. It's proposal No 1, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, by Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 3, by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, 4 and 5 by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 6, by Heidi Grande Røys, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, 7-9, from Steinar Bastisen on behalf of the Coastal Party Proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The government asks the Government to include an assessment of the taxation of transmission and distribution facilities for property tax purposes in the general review of electricity taxes and concession-based schemes set out in Ot.prp. No Add [[2002-2003]] This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1601	The Progress Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1668	The President will first vote on the motions for resolutions. 7-9 from the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: new point (m) of the first paragraph of Section 5-15 shall be replaced by the following: [[tax laws]] Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:In the first sentence of point (d) of the first paragraph of Section 7-11, a deduction of SEK 200000 in the value of the equation shall be made for the calculation of net income after point (a).IIThe change in paragraph I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the year of income 2003. [[tax laws]] Proposal No. 9 sounds: «In the Wealth and Income Act of 26 March 1999 No. Paragraphs 8 to 7 shall be replaced by the following:Sections 8 to 7 Fund provision for owners of fishing vessels1. Tax payers engaged in fishing activities on their own fishing vessels or renting such vessels to others using the vessel in fishing activities may require deduction of general income for the provision of funds in accordance with the rules laid down in this provision.2. The provision is limited up to 30 pst. of the general income for the year in respect of the activities referred to in the preceding subparagraph.3. Provisions must be made before the end of the period of notice.4. Amounts deducted under the above provisions shall be added to the taxpayer's income for the year in which the funds are disposed of, and at the latest by the fifth year following the deduction of the amount.5. The Ministry shall prescribe the completion and implementation of this provision.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1734	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: in the first paragraph of Section 10-12, the second paragraph is replaced by the following: remuneration is fixed at dividends received multiplied by 11/28 of the shareholder's tax rate on general income. [[tax laws]] [[1]] However, in the following cases, the remuneration of dividends received is determined multiplied by the shareholder's tax rate:(a) The recipient of dividends is a limited liability company or an assimilated company within the meaning of the first paragraph of Section 10-1.(b) The dividends received to active shareholders, so far as the dividend does not exceed the estimated income to be distributed to the shareholder of the company in the year of income. [[2]] [[2]] If the amounts determined in accordance with paragraphs 10 to 34 are positive, the entry value in the event of realisation referred to in paragraphs 10 to 37, and the realisation in the event of the transfer of the share to the company that issued the share, shall be governed by 11/28 of the amount. The previous sentence shall not apply to the realisation by a limited liability company or assimilated company within the meaning of the first paragraph of Section 10-1, to the realisation of the unit in mutual funds, or to the realisation as referred to in points (b) and (a) of the first paragraph of the first paragraph of Section 2-5. The acquisition value shall be set at the amount paid by a taxable person for the share unless otherwise specified.IIThe amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from 3 March 2003.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1775	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: In the law of March 26th. 1999 No. 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 8-15 is replaced by the following: interest income, gains on the realisation of shares and other financial income are taxable. [[tax laws]] [[2]] Gains from foreign exchange fluctuations attributable to the financial capital of the company, similar to the ratio of the company's carrying financial assets to the total capital, are taxable. The corresponding costs and losses are deductible. However, this does not apply to the gain or loss on the realisation of the share referred to in Section 8-1, first paragraph, d-g. Only a proportion of the company’s actual interest expenditure is deducted from the company’s carrying amount of financial assets and total capital. In calculating the interest deduction, the value of the asset shall be determined at the average of the value at the beginning of the year of income and the value at the end of the year of income. Deficits determined by the rules of this provision shall not be deducted from income determined by the fourth and fifth subparagraphs and by the third subparagraphs of Sections 8 to 14 but may be carried forward against subsequent income determined by this provision in accordance with the rules of Sections 14 to 6. The provision of paragraphs 10 to 43 on the deduction limit shall not apply in determining the income referred to in the first sentence of the first sentence in the case of merchants and members of the scheme, or in the case of members of the scheme holding a holding in companies referred to in paragraphs 10 to 60.IIThe change under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2003 year of income.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1804	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:The second paragraph of Section 4-12 is replaced by the following:The share shown on the SME list at Oslo Stock Exchange is valued at 80 pst. [[tax laws]] of the price value on 1 January of the Equation Year.§ 4-12, third paragraph, is replaced by the following:Not quoted share is valued at 80 pst. the proportionate share of the share in the total tax assets of the limited liability company or public limited liability company on 1 January of the preceding year, broken down by denomination.§ 4-12, first sentence of the fourth paragraph, is replaced by the following: Unlisted shares in non-resident companies are valued at 80 pst. The sixth paragraph of Section 4-12 of the Equation Year shall be replaced by the following: Basic certificates in savings banks, mutual insurance companies, credit and mortgage associations and self-owned financial undertakings shall be valued at 80 pst. of the price value on 1 January of the Equation Year. If the price is not quoted or is not known, the value is set to 80 pst. of the estimated value to sell.§ 4-13, first subparagraph, the first sentence shall be replaced by the following:In the case of a limited liability company or public limited liability company formed the year before the Equation Year, the share value is set at 80 pst. of the sum of the nominal amount and premium of the shares.§ 5-14, third paragraph, point (b) is deleted.§ 5-14, third paragraph, point (c) shall be deleted.(b) 6-50.§ 12-17, first paragraph shall be replaced by the following:If the taxpayer's total revenue from undertakings for which estimated revenue is determined would exceed 23 times the basic amount of the national security [[G]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1857	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows:the fourth sentence of the second paragraph of Section 5-15 shall be deleted.IIThe change in I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2003 year of income.» [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e1968	The Party of Advances and the Coastal Party have warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e2009	Finally, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advance Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law 6 July 1957, No. 26 on the coordination of pension and social security benefits is amended as follows: 2 the fourth subparagraph shall be replaced by the following:In any case, a full deduction of coordination shall be limited so that the pensioner does not lose the pensioner himself or the spouse who has earned pension credits in the social security system.IIThe change in I shall enter into force immediately and shall take effect for the period after 31 December 1976.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e2035	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-16-lower-2.ana.ud246e2045	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
