ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e176	The representatives of Thorbjørn Jagland, Haakon Blankenborg, Finn Martin Vallersnes, Gunhild Øyågen and Michael Momyr, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Pål Kårbø, has taken the seat. The request for welfare leave by the representative of Ms Ine Marie Eriksen has been received from the Højres Storingsgruppe since 20 February and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The sales representative, Brit I. H. Andreassen, to be called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e213	Brit I. H. Andreassen is present and will take his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e218	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e223	I suggest Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e228	Asmund Kristoffersen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. The representative of Ingvild Vaggen Malvik will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e233	I would like, on behalf of the representatives of Hallgeir H. Langeland, Karin Andersen, Kjetil Bjørklund and myself, to put forward proposals for a revision of the Energy Act to include environmental objectives in the Energy Act, to better manage the fluctuations in the energy price and to get control of the wider structural changes that liberalisation has triggered.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e238	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e253	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for speeches by the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set to 10 minutes, for other speakers speaking time to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e260	The popular mobilization against war is very joyful. Those who demonstrate have the democratic privilege of raising demands without having the answer to how to achieve the goal. As political leaders, we have the democratic duty to give the answer, to translate people's demands into practical action. I've noticed that most of the demonstrators say we have to follow France and Germany. France has always said that it may be necessary to use military power to disarm Iraq. This was also adopted by the EU Summit on Monday. Germany made it clear that the country agreed to this. The reason is quite simple, namely that twelve years of sanctions to make Iraq comply with the UN's demands have not been achieved. We cannot continue with the sanctions policy. It has led to great humanitarian suffering and has caused enormous economic problems to the countries of the region. What are you going to do? We can't just surrender to Saddam Hussein. The solution is that the Americans and the British allow the military pressure to be maintained, and that the international community stands behind this in a clear way that Saddam Hussein cannot misunderstand, while continuing the weapons inspections. Then it may be that Saddam Hussein is fully cooperating and war is avoided. It will in an unusual and historic way strengthen the UN. Nothing else would be more consistent with a main line of Norwegian foreign policy. I believe that the reasons for the strong protests in Europe against US policy are that people have got the impression that the United States will only use the United Nations if the United Nations takes decisions that are in line with their own wishes. This is contrary to the thinking that has been given footholds in Europe over the post-war period. Through mandatory cooperation in the EU, countries have become accustomed to subjecting themselves to treaties that are superior to national self-determination. We are talking here about a shift in mentality and political culture that has changed a whole continent from nationalism and war to peace and cooperation. For Europe, the EU means what we want the UN to mean for the whole world. It's this political culture that collides with the mentality that makes too much sense in the U.S. administration. The EU has clearly stated that decisions will be taken by the Security Council. This is also the Labour Party line. We can't allow ourselves to say yes to the decisions we like, and no to the decisions we don't like. It would be doing what the United States says: something that will help break down the United Nations. Nor can the Labour Party act as some in this Chamber, relying on only half of the policies such as: France and Germany have. None of them have said no to war anyway. And more importantly, we can't juggle Europe as we please, that is. lend us to European countries when it fits into a single matter, but would not be part of the Europe that is, in general, fighting for a more balanced world governed by international law. This is what, in my opinion, is behind the battle over the Atlantic. Europe requires to be heard, so that it is not just the United States that decides everything. This is happening in a sometimes messy way that also creates conflict within the EU, but the process is not to stop. Europe will gradually emerge in a more unambiguous way. Nothing would be better for the world, but it is this Europe that some of those who are now leaning on Europe are struggling against and will not be involved. It's been said that we've got a new global order after every world war. After World War I we got the League of Nations, which collapsed under the iron heel of nationalism. The Second World War created the United Nations, NATO and the European Community, which have helped to smooth nationalism for 50 years. The war on terrorism also creates the need for a new global order. Now, it's not nationalism that needs to be curbed, but fanaticism without any national borders and without us seeing any clear frontline. Europe and the United States agree that terrorism must be combated. But they don't agree on how to do that. Behind it all lies a disagreement about the belief in the global institutions. We saw it in the debate on the International Criminal Court. We now see it as to who should be able to authorize the use of force against Iraq. Europe believes that terrorism and violence that are contrary to international law must be dealt with under international law. I agree with this 100 percent, and it is so important that Norway stands by this very thing. Where is Norway’s interest in what is now happening? They are in the fact that Europe has greater influence. We're not interested in an increasing conflict over the Atlantic as a result of a self-confident United States. The only way to prevent this is for Europe to become stronger. Equivalence will create more balance and harmony. Disequilibrium as it is now, will create discord. As amazing as it can be heard, it is the country that is outside the EU, Norway, the country that is most well served for Europe to become strong and united through the EU, because it will just ensure that there will be good relations with the United States, and because it will strengthen the UN. That is why, as political leaders, I believe that we must ensure that Norway enters the European Union as quickly as possible. It's in our own interests, and that's the most important conclusion we can draw from what's now happening on the global stage. This is also the only way to secure NATO's future. NATO will be destroyed if the battle over the Atlantic develops. On the other hand, NATO can play a major role in a global order in which Europe and the United States cooperate with Russia and with India and China, which also play major and important roles in global policy now. NATO is the only remaining multinational military structure that can be deployed to restore peace and secure peace agreements under the mandate of the United Nations. We saw this in Bosnia where ordinary UN forces were unable to avert the massacre in Srebrenica. An international force under the leadership of NATO had to be deployed. Only such strength will e.g. could secure a peace agreement between Israel and the Palestinians in a way that both peoples would trust. Finally, I would like to say this: it must be a huge cross of thought for the Americans that, through their language and selfish behaviour, they have made people in Europe turn against the United States rather than against terror. The terrorist groups do not hate the United States because of the death penalty and the country's resistance to the Kyoto Agreement and the International Criminal Court. They hate the United States because of its liberal values, which is a challenge to the fundamentalist part of Islam. That's why we should be together with the United States in combating terrorism, because our societies are based on the same liberal ideas. But the terrorist groups have managed to develop the America we don't like, the fundamentalist part of the country that sees the world with only its own glasses, and that is willing to limit the liberal rights and obligations to the law of the world society and the right to fight terrorism. It may be this the fundamentalist part of Islam wants, because it's just what can lead to the war between civilizations and religions that I think they want. If you want to avoid this, I'll again point to the Palestinian question. Here too, international resolutions and international law must apply. Israel has the right to security and security. This cannot be achieved until the occupation of Palestine ceases. This occupation is contrary to the decisions of the Security Council and international law. The war on terrorism cannot be won until we apply international law in all conflicts, and especially in the one taking place in this area. It's not enough that we're against something. We also have to be for something. It's good to have people demonstrating, but we can't just have a demonstration policy. We must have a foreign policy in the historical era that I think we are going through.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e308	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e311	The leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee has extensive experience in working for peace in the Middle East and has often pointed out that the most important thing we can do is to get rid of the power and to take preventive measures against power. I want to ask the leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee: how can one then get Israel on a new track and also get Israel to end up with the international obligations that lie there? And, as a continuation of it again, how can we signal this to the U.S. Congress, where we know that the funding for the Israeli occupation lies? And can the leader of the Foreign Affairs Committee say a little bit about how we can try to push the United States to also get the United States on a better track, so that we can avoid the use of power in Iraq, and so that maybe we can let go of international law longer than we would like?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e318	Once again, I would like to point out the need for us to have a Europe that speaks with one voice, the Europe that Bjørn Jacobsen does not want to enter. Those who can do something about this now are the so-called Quartet in which the EU, Russia, the United States and the United Nations are involved. I see that the Europeans have to make their voice even clearer and make the United States realize that there is no double standard in the position of the Security Council's resolutions. I have also pointed to another possibility. It is that if we could get e.g. NATO, as I said, is the only remaining multinational military structure, to say that they are willing to guarantee a future border between Israel and Palestine if they agree on it, it could in itself be an incentive for the parties to go back to the negotiating table. The main problem now is that they don't trust each other. No one dares to conclude a peace agreement if there is no one who is able to guarantee that such an agreement can be held. I'm also saying this because I think we should strengthen the UN, it's no longer enough to say that we have UN forces under blue helmets. We must have robust military forces that, under the mandate of the United Nations, can contribute to peace operations. I think it's time now to think through the whole situation. But if this is going to work, we need NATO. We need the UN, and we need the EU as a very important piece to get all these organisations to survive, and perhaps also get a new strength in a new global system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e327	I noticed that the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs did not mention with one word in his speech what is at the root of this foreign debate, namely the Minister of Foreign Affairs' presentation a week ago. Nor was it necessary, as far as I could hear, the message was in one and all the same. In today's world situation, I consider that to be extremely important and important. If it's ever been important to put aside marginal disagreements that may be present between the parties in this room, and hold on to the central consensus, it must be at times like the ones we now experience. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee made it clear that there is no alternative solution to the Iraq crisis in the direction of continuing, possibly changing, the sanctions regime that has now been in vain for many years. On that point, I fully agree with his assessment. I also see that he has thus put a line over the airy plans that have been going on in the world's media – which some have enthusiastically embraced and which have proved to be non-existent – the idea of having a permanent monitoring regime of Iraq, possibly involving UN forces, while maintaining an indefinite military threat in Iraq's environment. But I wish that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee might further clarify his view of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e334	As Inge Wohnning himself said, I have no comments on the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I also said that after it was held. I am pleased with the agreement we have on foreign policy. It has been very important for Norway now. As far as it goes, we have to face up to the fact that this regime of sanctions has not led us to the goal. Moreover, it came under violent criticism and was also used by Saddam Hussein against the world community. Those who now protest most against the use of military power were those who were also most opposed to the sanction regime. So what do you do? You can't just capitulate. Then we must see the reality in our eyes that a powerful military force has been built that has led to results. But it is clear that that force cannot stand there forever. Those who are in favour of it must at least have a plan for how to do it. You can't just leave this to two other countries and not even be participants, or maybe go on the street and protest against it. Here you have to get to a clarification at some point. What the Security Council needs to discuss is: When will that clarification come? I don't think it can come without Saddam Hussein making it clear that there's going to be a clarification here at some point. We have seen that it is then possible that this military pressure can work. If you get a clarification, if you get a peaceful disarmament, I think it might be necessary to have a permanent institutional and monitoring mechanism. But to deploy thousands of U.N. forces in the country I have no faith in. It won't work either. Nor did it come as a serious proposal from those who were thought to be proposers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e345	The Labour Party has consistently supported what I want to mention as the relatively passive line of the Government in the Iraq conflict. It's actually a little unfamiliar to see the Workers' Party so willlessly in foreign policy. Fortunately, there seems to be a broad consensus at international level that support should be given for more time for weapons inspectors. It's given us a pause of thought that you've come up with that recognition. The question has been raised as to how much time the weapons inspectors should be given. Do you want to set a short deadline, or do you need to put on a line where the weapons inspectors get the time they need? We in the Center Party mean the last thing. My question is whether the Workers' Party has any view of this, or whether you await the views of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e350	To put it the way it is, I think it's a little sad that you're going to do this debate. It'll be at best for the home level and perhaps the most for the few who are in this room. Do we support the passive government line? It is Norway's foreign policy which we have supported, as the Government has continued, as we have had for 50 years, and which now turns out to be the whole world society's view, namely that we should respect UN decisions, and we have insisted on that all the time. We have even said that, in the interests of the United Nations, we will also respect UN decisions that we do not like. That's what I see as being the government's line all the time. Just because the government has that line, we can't take a completely different position than what we've had for 50 years. So Åslaug Haga says that now there seems to be an agreement to give the weapons inspectors more time. But that is, in fact, what the Government and the Workers' Party have said from the beginning, that we must give the weapons inspectors the time they are asking, but not the time the Center Party requests. Here again we are dealing with the body of the Security Council for this, namely the weapons inspectors, that is the body of the Security Council. Then we will listen to what the weapons inspectors themselves mean. Those who constantly believe that the weapon inspection will continue, they won't even listen to them. They have previously adopted positions before the arms inspectors can explain their position on the Security Council. It may be that the weapons inspectors are coming to say that we have enough more than two months, or they may also say that it does not help. I think it's pretty important to get it on the table before making a decision on what we're going to mean. This is the content of the UN line, namely that we respect the decisions of the Security Council. And one decision that has been made is to get advice from the weapons inspectors. Then I also think that, although we are not sitting in the Security Council, we should wait for that advice before we have any bona fide perceptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e358	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e361	Let me start by making a confession. I took my mouth a little too full when I found that there was a consensus between Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland's posts and the Foreign Minister's statement. That's one exception. For understandable reasons, the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not go so far as to express his view of Norway’s relationship with the EU as the Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In return, I dare to assume that the Foreign Minister did not dislike what he heard anyway. Let me first say that the Foreign Minister's statement in this Chamber a week ago was a pointed, concentrated and unusually clear explanation of Norwegian foreign policy in a difficult world situation. I fully agree with Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland that the way this is expressed in today's crisis situation is entirely in line with what has been the main line of Norwegian foreign policy for half a hundred years. It would have been a very poor sign if Norway were to begin to improvise new foreign policy choices in a difficult international crisis situation. At such times, you prefer not to improvise. Let me also say that the most worrying thing about the process we've seen in the international community over the past few weeks is the heads of state who have fallen into improvisation and who have demonstrated an apparent absence of wisdom in their choice of words and in the way in which marginal disagreements have been magnified, so that it has overshadowed the basic consensus. It's very regrettable that NATO's society has got such a fundamental shot at the bow as what we've seen through the long, week-long dispute over something that really isn't a disagreement when it comes to the problem. In a situation where NATO is to be expanded with a wide range of new Member States that want to focus their own security policy on NATO membership, this is very unfortunate. Not least for the small Member States such as Norway, it is very unfortunate that NATO becomes an arena to show disagreement between the large Member States. It is not true, as is often stated, that this conflict within the NATO framework has been a dispute between the United States on the one hand and the European NATO members on the other. I had almost said, it would have been just so simple. What's obvious is that the lines cross and cross within the European part of NATO. There is no particularly promising sign when the French President, the day after one has managed to reach a unanimous opinion in the Council of the European Union, goes out with a lecture on what has been harmed by a certain US Secretary of Defense to call ‘New Europe’, thus involuntarily confirming that even US defence ministers can sometimes find a grain. When the French President starts teaching the countries of Eastern Europe that they really should be silent and grateful that they are at all allowed to apply for membership, it must be allowed to state that there are not only leaders in the new potential Member States who should sometimes take the opportunity to remain silent. It may well be that even in the old Member States, there are some heads of state who would be wise to do so. We've seen disunity play out in a way that can only be of joy to the regime in Baghdad. It's a paradox when Saddam Hussein starts broadcasting for all the world his gratitude for all the peace demonstrations and congratulations to the demonstrators. It is as paradoxical as when you are shown pictures in the mass media of giant demonstrations in London, where the eye-catcher is one person who stands in front and holds up a heavy poster, where it says: «Peace in our hour». Then you start to wonder if it's ironic, or if there's something else that's out there and going. For people of my age group, it is also not to avoid associating it with the past when it starts to become popular to walk around the streets with posters that say ‘Without me’ – without me. It is always grateful in crisis situations to sign out and refuse to take co-responsibility, and then to demonstrate those who take responsibility. It's thoughtful that those who have strongly criticized the current American government for drawing the world in black and white and for lack of shades in their worldview, even make the most dramatic black and white images and even develop the most violent enemy images. The opinion adopted unanimously by the European Council two days ago reads as follows: We realize that it is the unity and firmness of the international community, as expressed in the unanimous agreement to Resolution 1441, and the military build-up that has been essential to achieving the return of the inspectors to Iraq. And so, even more important: These factors will also remain at the heart of achieving the full cooperation we are looking for. It must be allowed to say: it was high time you returned to what is the real problem, and put all the sidings at risk. It has always been a paradox that building military threats can be the most likely way to achieve peace. It's always been a paradox, and it's also a paradox in today's situation. But that's the political reality. It is a great leap forward if we can now expect the members of the Security Council – all of them – to share the view expressed by the European Council that it is the further follow-up to the massive pressure against the terrorist regime in Baghdad that is the only opportunity at last, after twelve years, to demonstrate that the UN is able to solve the problem that the UN has undertaken to solve. This will require all Member States of the Security Council, but not least the five members who have a right to veto, to be willing to let their own national pennies fall in favour of the common objective. In this way, there can still be an opportunity to reach a solution without a war that no one wants, and no one can overlook its reach. However, any policy that contributes to creating the impression of doubt gives the impression that the Security Council is not able to hold together to achieve the common goal, any such policy in the present situation is harmful. Finally, let me add that if you see the Iraq crisis in the wider regional perspective, there is no doubt that the Palestinian question should be re-addressed with the full force of the international community in this situation. That's why I think it's very gratifying that the government took the initiative for the meeting that was held in London two days ago, to if possible bring that matter out of the water again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e395	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e398	It will be time to come back to the question of the Middle East and Iraq later. I'll continue where Inge Wages started. To the invitation – or was it called for – from Inge Wohnung about a stronger pressure from Stortinget to the Government to pursue an EU policy other than that of the Government: I assume that it was the call that Inge Wohnung presented to Stortinget here, inviting anyone who wants to have a more active EU policy to press the Government to change the course.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e405	I am not sure if the description category is the exact one. It was an honest attempt to clarify that I had been harmed to take my mouth too full when I put full resemblance between the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But it is clear that a head of the Foreign Affairs Committee can also allow himself greater freedoms in relation to his own party than a foreign minis­ter can at any time. After all, Haakon Blankenborg does not have the full experience in this area, but he can consult the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, who has held both roles, as he knows, and perhaps he will be briefed on it. In today's situation and with the main issue on the agenda, which was the theme of the Foreign Minister's presentation, namely the international crisis around Iraq, I would say that the issue of Norwegian EU membership is a siding – an interesting siding, but I think we can get many other good opportunities to run that track, so I don't think I'm going to contribute to increasing traffic density right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e410	Yes, that's an enchanting agreement we're now witnessing. Since 11 September, we have seen a turn of American politics that has troubled a great many, and that, in the opinion of SV, has now led us to the edge of what may be a very risky war. An expression of the new American policy is the new doctrine of ‘pre-emptive strike’ or preventive attack. But there are also many other aspects of the Bush administration's attitude to the international community that give cause for concern, that the United States will not ratify the probation agreement, that the United States has declared that they regard the Kyoto agreement as dead, that the United States will not ratify the Rome Statutes of the International Criminal Court, to mention anything. Now we know the right as a party that is very careful to maintain the transatlantic bonds. I have to say that we are still wondering that, in the Foreign Minister's statement, there is not as much as a minor question about the role that the United States is now playing. What does the representative think of pay? Does he think that there are reasons to use the transatlantic ties a little more strongly to ask the United States to adopt a different stance, and a more positive attitude, to established international agreements and conventions and the restrictions on the use of force contained in the UN Charter, or will this be unnecessary improvisation and jeopardize our foreign policy line?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e417	It's extra pleasant if the foreign policy consensus has now become so broad that SV is also concerned about how we can strengthen the transatlantic bonds. I must say I welcome that. As far as I'm concerned, the Norwegian government has used its good channels across the Atlantic to express Norwegian views, and especially in the phase of doubting whether the United States would be betting on what is now called the United Nations Track, or choosing other ways. At that time, the Norwegian Government exercised its influence. I'm not going to say that it was decisive – it might be overestimating Norway's importance. But that's exactly what's the advantage of having a friendly relationship with a superpower, that you have the opportunity to express your vision, not through demonstrations and spectacular inventions, but in a somewhat neat way. It is, in my view, essential when the situation is that the world has only one military superpower – and probably it's going to be that way in the foreseeable future – that this superpower listens, and that there are people talking to it and to it. What's at risk in this situation in the United States is that you just get hurt in order to think that you don't need the United Nations, you don't need NATO, you don't need binding international cooperation. It is our job to help the fortunately strong wing of American politics that counters that thinking, and that wants the United States to remain multilateral in its approach to the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e424	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e427	The current situation with regard to Iraq is marked by a deep concern about what can happen. Nobody wants violence and war, everyone will of course have a peaceful solution. But we also want disarmament, we want security, and we want certainty that one of the world's worst dictatorships does not possess weapons that can kill and harm millions of people, not only in their own neighbourhoods, but across the globe. It's not about a fictitious threat invented in the head of some politicians and heads of state, so you can get the impression when you hear some statements. It's about real threats from Saddam Hussein, a man who previously hasn't gone off the road to show that he's serious. This recognition was behind the Security Council Resolution of 8 November last year. Here we felt the joy that the entire Security Council was united behind Resolution 1441 and thus forced Iraq to cooperate. There was consensus and joint strength that pressured Iraq to open up to weapons inspectors. And Iraq started, as they've been doing for years, talking great and great about cooperation, but in reality they're doing something completely different. The information clearly called for in Resolution 1441 has not yet been provided by Iraq. Iraq has opened up a little more after further pressure. In a familiar way, they keep the world interested, in the belief that Iraq is cooperative, and that the system of inspectors works. But then it is unfortunate that international pressure is weakened by the fact that countries such as Germany and France are reluctant to follow up Resolution 1441. Although Resolution 1441 clearly states that Iraq will face serious consequences if they fail to comply with the United Nations requirements, there is doubt from those states as to whether it is worth standing by this formulation. This opens the way for Saddam to do the best, to play the countries of the Security Council against each other and to take advantage of popular opinion against war. Germany chooses to place itself in such a way that they are fully aligned with what the United Nations has to decide. This is an isolated one from Germany that we would have liked to be in addition. It's written about division between the United States and Europe. In reality, there is a division between some European countries and the United States. Ten European Heads of State signed a call for support for the US line, just to demonstrate that large parts of Europe follow the wording of Resolution 1441 and support the US view in this way. The Progress Party believes that the Norwegian government should join this uproar, if not otherwise in order to avoid us being placed in a booth with Germany and France and their selfish behaviour in this conflict. In parallel with this, Turkey feels threatened and naturally asks for defensive measures under Article 4 of the NATO Treaty to be implemented. Here, the power of three NATO countries is the amazing piece of art to refuse to comply with Turkey's request for help. Germany, France and Belgium perform to ignore their clear commitments in NATO and thus doubt the legitimacy of the whole alliance. After too much time, it'll be all right, but not without NATO getting more than just scratches in the paint. And what signal does this send to the new NATO candidate countries, who are just applying into the alliance to get the necessary security that would be the ally's carrier? The most joyful thing for a long time was the EU statement on Monday, which clearly places the responsibility for war and peace on Iraq, and says that Iraq now has a last chance of resolving the conflict peacefully. These words were clear and must clearly be seen as a saying to those who want Resolution 1441 to be fully complied with, and not just symbolic. We interpret this as Germany and France have had to slow down their isolation and, fortunately, they make up a minority in Europe. Now that the sequences again seem to have stopped, it is to hope that Saddam Hussein realizes the realities and begins to deliver. For this is the chance we have to solve the problem Saddam Hussein. Giving the world community after and letting things pass, it's a serious break not least for the UN, but perhaps most of all for the Iraqi population. There will also be a signal to other leaders that as long as you are sufficiently rigid and obscene, you can do what you want. Our call to the Government is to be clear and clear that Saddam is responsible for whether there will be war or peace. He has to deliver, and he has to deliver immediately. Resolution 1441 is very clear and cannot be interpreted as anything but a last warning to Iraq. But, of course, it is preferable to get together behind a new UN resolution, so that the need for action against Iraq might arise. Any assessment of Iraq's future must be based on the current perspective on the consideration of the civilian population. Iraq deserves better. They deserve to be able to experience freedom, democracy and the absence of violence and oppression. Hope must be created, and it must be done in such a way that Iraq can appear as a model for the rest of the region. Not least, democratic Iraq should be an important factor in democratising the Palestinians and making them responsible participants in future peace processes. The Iraq conflict currently overshadows most of the foreign policy scene, but there are also other important processes that need to be commented on. Not least the WTO, which in our view is of great importance, not only for the promotion of trade and growth, but also as an effective instrument for combating poverty. Much is at stake in the forthcoming round of negotiations. We have important interests, including: related to the liberalisation of the fish market. These are legitimate interests for which Norway must actively fight. Similarly, many developing countries have similar legitimate interests in liberalising trade in agricultural products. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was very vague and little concrete about how Norway would position itself in this area. Of course, there is a conflict of interest between maintaining an animal in the Norwegian agricultural sector almost unchanged and meeting demands from the poor world. What do we choose to do? On the part of the Minister of Development, we in the Grand Duchy before Christmas could get the impression that Norway would support the demands of developing countries, but on the part of the Minister of Agriculture, we can see a somewhat different line. And it's going to be done to make everyone ready in this case. I don't even think the Bondevik government is capable of such a balance. So something more clarification here would be desirable. Furthermore, the Progress Party believes that the political impact for Europe resulting from the enlargement of both NATO and the EU will be positive. Wider units are created and much more inclusive. As far as EU enlargement is concerned, as an outsider, one may have to be careful to interfere too much, but as a close neighbour of the EU, and hopefully a good neighbour, it must be allowed to say that we believe that EU membership should be made available to perhaps even greater extent than what we see today. For our part, we are not satisfied with how the Copenhagen Summit concluded with Turkey. A far greater degree of commitment on the part of the EU should have been made in response to Turkey’s application for membership. We believe and believe that a broader Europe is better than a deeper Europe. By doing so, we believe that the European Union should find some of the roots, the very idea behind cooperation, which is reflected in modern forms in the internal market. I have a hope that the new Member States will help the EU to give proper priority, and for example. not dwell too much and for too long on a European security and defence policy, the ESDP, which unfortunately is an example of EU cooperation which is totally superfluous and based on national ambitions of some European Heads of State. When we see how NATO is being handled by some Member States today, we should, in the spirit of the postwar era, consider whether our support and our reported contribution to the ESDP were also a right decision. Negotiations on the EEA as a result of EU enlargement are underway and it is important to put them in place to ensure parallel enlargement. I would just like to touch on one point where we believe Norway has not taken the necessary steps in its negotiating positions, and that concerns the free movement of labour. We believe that this is necessary to be proactive and therefore promote a proposal today that the Government should take a negotiating position and request similar transitional provisions as Germany and Austria. This proposal has been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e457	The representative of Morten Højlund has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e462	Morten Høglund says that the conclusion of the EU Council on 17 February places the responsibility of the Iraq conflict clearly on Iraq, and that is right. But as far as I can see, there is also another clear responsibility that the council mentions. The Council says that the UN Security Council is responsible for implementing this policy. My question to the Progress Party is whether the Progress Party will uncompromisingly use the UN as a means of resolving this conflict and rejecting every form of isolation, from one country or another, when it comes to finding a solution to the issue of Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e468	That's right, as the representative of Blankenburg says. We think it was a welcome opinion from the European Union, saying that the time perspective in relation to the weapons inspectors must be handled by the Security Council. We have also placed great emphasis, like the Government and the Labour Party, on the crucial issue of the handling of this conflict by the United Nations and the Security Council. We still do that, and we think Resolution 1441 is the carrybar of this work. Nevertheless, we have seen that some countries have notified possible, perhaps theoretical, veto in some cases, and we therefore allow ourselves to look at developments and be prepared on an independent basis to decide how the United Nations is dealing with this situation further. If, for very national reasons, a single Member State chooses to stand completely outside what the rest of the world society wants, for example, we will reserve the right to participate in perhaps the broad majority who want something else. But this is going to be some theory, and it's going to be a discussion that we'll certainly get the opportunity to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e473	There will certainly be an opportunity to come back to both that question and a number of other key issues in today's international picture. I noticed with interest and some wonder that the representative, Höglund, had such strong and striking views of the EU and Norway's relationship with the EU. I have understood his party leader so that he believes that the issue of Norway's relationship with the EU is too important for political parties to think anything about it. If Højlund's speeches can be interpreted as perhaps the Progress Party is moving away from this futility and in the direction of having perceptions of the European issue, that is a good sign. With regard to the strong support for Turkey as a candidate for EU membership, I will not contradict Höglund, but I think perhaps my assessment of that issue is based on a slightly different premise than what you could listen to from Höglund’s contributions, namely that it is an advantage that the EU is becoming the widest possible and least in-depth possible. I believe that Turkey's relationship with Europe may be a key element in today's picture, because it is a country with a predominantly Muslim population. If it is possible for such a country to work integrated with European countries, it can be a very constructive contribution to preventing the hostile image between a Muslim and a Christian part of the world that many are interested in creating. My question to Højlund is: Is his view of Norwegian relations with the EU authorised at the highest level, or is he privately practicing in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e480	As far as Turkey is concerned, I do not have much to say about the view of the representative for pay. There are many good and important reasons to include Turkey. There has been broad support from Norway for the enlargement of the EU in general, even with different views on Norwegian membership. I did not take up the relationship between Norway and the EU in relation to membership, but we nevertheless allow ourselves to have views on the ongoing European debate. The development of the EU is of the utmost interest to us for many reasons. I mentioned the ESDP that affects not least the work in NATO, where we are a member, and where we have important interests to express. This was not an attempt to say that we must not, or that we must, enter the EU, but we must be active in relation to the processes that are going on in Europe and that we must allow ourselves to participate in perhaps even more than we have done in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e485	The foreign policy orientation of the Progress Party is characterized primarily by one thing, and that is to be loyal to the United States, no matter what the United States may say or believe. Sometimes this can lead to you getting the wrong place. This is particularly well seen in the conflict that is the main topic of today's debate, namely the Iraq crisis. Saddam Hussein was, as you know, a friend of the United States until a few years before the Gulf War. It was the West and Russia that rustled Saddam Hussein. The helicopters were supplied by the Americans, the gas was supplied by Germany. It was the United Kingdom that had given Iraq and Saddam Hussein aircraft, and it was Russia that delivered weapons, rockets and experts. So it was these weapons that the weapons inspectors removed in the years following the Gulf War, which actually made the weapons inspection work. But being so one-sided about what the U.S. thinks about friend and enemy, sometimes makes you get really bad out of it. In a debate here in Stortinget just two months after Saddam Hussein used gas against his own people in the Kurdish village of Alkaelja and gas in the middle of 5,000 people – a debate related to Kongsberg weapons factory – Carl I. Hagen was not occupied by these 5,000 people who were gassed in the heart of Saddam Hussein, the friend of the United States at that time, but he was concerned that Norwegian weapons factories were not given arms to Iraq. He said, ‘Shall... the weapons Iran and Iraq use against each other today be produced by French workers, English workers, Soviet workers, American workers – or shall they secure Norwegian jobs?’ It was the view of the Progress Party as late as May 1988, two months after the cruel attack in the village of Alkallja. Then is my question to the Foreign Policy spokesman in the Advancement Party: Has it ever been the case for the Advancement Party that it may be necessary to think an independent thought and not unilaterally dilt after another nation, without having their own opinions on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e501	I'm mildly said a little shaken by this, not least the claim of thinking an independent thought. I tried in my article to express a European attitude, a attitude in which we place ourselves well with our close allies in Europe – most European countries – and not only follow the United States. That so the majority of European states have chosen to ally themselves with the United States, we seem to be natural in this context. I also tried to draw up what kind of Iraq we want in the future, namely a democratic Iraq. It was, for those who have followed the debate this past week, also a small kick to the United States and the thoughts that have emerged that perhaps one should sit and rule Iraq in a slightly more totalitarian way to satisfy, for example. Saudi Arabia – if it results in correctness. We have the greatest ability to think independent thoughts, but we also have the ability to listen to our allies and not get the spikes out every time the United States has to take the floor. We also think the United States can have the right things to go with -- if not always, so at least many times. They have proved to be an important supporter, they have proved to be a believe ally, and they have shown the ability to take responsibility when important crisis situations arise. But, of course, it's all a responsibility to evaluate the decisions you make yourself, and we do so to the greatest extent. I take a strong distance from the way the representative chose to present our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e510	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e513	I have a certain understanding that the representative Morten Højlund Römmer was ashamed, because if the Progress Party had got what they wanted, it was Norwegian weapons that should have been used by Saddam Hussein. So when Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party are now out with high tones, it's a double moral that's so huge that it can be seen through even in the deepest darkness. What makes 60,000 people get out on the streets of Oslo along with millions around the world? There are people who have never demonstrated before in their lives. It's grandmothers and grandchildren and single people who have a very strong commitment. I think a lot of the driving force is the following: they want a Norwegian government that says more clearly from what must now be the road to peace. So we are in the situation that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has made a statement to the Storting with unreserved support for Powell – stronger support than that provided by the UN's own arms inspector Blix when he explains to the Security Council. Then we are in the situation that the action space that Blix has so far had, and that was used with greater integrity than we feared before he reported to the Security Council the last time, is created by popular mobilization. It is created by some European countries, but it is also created by the popular mobilization that helps to pull the flank that makes room for fighting so that the weapons inspectors will have more time, that they will do their job – and they have worked effectively earlier. What the Norwegian government is doing is not to have an opinion about what is going to be the UN track until the UN track is laid. It permeates the Foreign Minister’s statement that the Norwegian perception of the UN track is at all times what the United Nations ultimately decides for the Security Council to adopt. But until then, most other countries have the ambition to influence what is going to be the Security Council's decision. We had a much better chance of that when we were members of the Security Council. We are a small country in the world, with not all the world's strongest voice, but we have an opportunity to influence it. I think one of the reasons why in Norway the demonstrations were larger than many other places was that we did not see our own prime minister and our own foreign minister helping to create the space that allowed the weapons inspectors to have more time to disarm Saddam Hussein. There's something paradoxical in the situation that has arisen, and that's because Saddam Hussein is a despot, a dictator of the world's worst class, built up of the West. The weapons he has, he has received from the West, the strength he has, he has received from the West, and the abuses he has done in the past have not resulted in significant protests from the West. So this man is what is now described on the one hand as crazy and unpredictably – which is probably right – but on the other hand is the one who gets world peace in his hands by the mass and by the United States. Is it so certain that a man and a dictator, who in other cases has proved not to be anything, is one who acts rationally under the threat of military attacks from the rest of the world? Iraq's responsibility is clear to the sun, but the actions that Saddam Hussein is going to take in the days to come are rational in our way of thinking and in our way of pushing, there can be very big question marks. Then we are in the situation that the world society under threat or under the leadership of the United States can provoke the worst possible outcome. And that's the second reason why many individuals are afraid: it's hard to see that the situation that the world is now in is more dramatic than it was in 1998, when the weapons inspectors left Iraq. There has been a serious situation for a long time, but no one can demonstrate — not the United States, no one else, not the weapons inspectors — that Saddam Hussein is in an immediate situation where he is threatening neighbouring countries or arming other groups. And then war is the worst option. Then we're not in a situation where military action prevents a situation that could be worse. Then we are not in a situation where a war can prevent a genocide, or is legitimate, in self-defense. Then we are in a situation where, through possible future decisions in the Security Council, international law can be developed to legitimise preventive attacks, legitimize regime change as a starting point for the world when intervened in other countries. Then you've come a long way in a galley where it's hard to see where to stop if you're going to work for peaceful solutions. Unfortunately, the world is full of dangerous despots and dictators. What makes the situation – in my opinion and in the opinion of SV – so dramatic? It's that what you achieve by going to war is worse than the alternative. In any case, it's hard to see evidenced by the huge gambler you start when you go to war – you have to be very careful to be bombastic about what can actually happen if you go to war, but it's an extreme gambling with civil life. Even if the bombings were to be short, there are infected waters and diseases coming into the wake of destroyed infrastructure, which could threaten civilian lives in Iraq. It's an extreme gambling with the situation in the whole Middle East, it's a gambling in relation to what kind of environments you can recruit to terror, and it's a gambling in relation to what kind of regime you set for the future in dealing with conflicts in the world. We find it strange that no more in Stortinget believe that they themselves should be involved in some of the balances that such a dangerous situation requires – by us, by the Government and also by each of the 165 large-scale representatives. That is why my question is to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister and the majority in the United Kingdom: what is achieved by a gambler who can put so many civilian lives at risk, who can distort the balance in the Middle East so enormously, and who can provoke the use of any weapons of mass destruction from a dictator, who cannot be trusted? What is it that you achieve through it? And why does the Norwegian government not have a separate, independent attitude, that now concerns one thing, namely to ensure that the weapons inspectors, who until 1998 did an effective job, who until 1998 demolished 95 pst. of the weapons of mass destruction which Saddam Hussein had, can remove those which he may have left, in the same way? You have to make sure that there is a peaceful way out of this. If the war comes anyway, you have very little to achieve by handing out weapons and giving the world community insight. If the pressure is held and foreign intelligence has to deliver its intelligence reports while the capabilities of the weapons inspectors are escalating, there is the possibility of preventing a war, despite the hundreds of thousands of soldiers marching up the Gulf, despite the fact that it is extremely difficult to imagine that an American president will get them home without having anything more dramatic to show than that the weapons inspectors have had more time and more and more effective instruments. SV promotes three proposals in this debate. They're distributed in places, and I'd like to end by taking them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e535	The representative Kristin Halvorsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e540	I'm going to ask Kristin Halvorsen about SV's view of the road forward to where we are today, and the road further. With armed power, the international community has kept Saddam Hussein away from the area of Iraq where he massacred people in the 1980s, and one has kept him away from South Iraq. This cannot continue. We can't say "game over" and let Saddam Hussein come back. There must be a system for this. For more than ten years, there has been a steady pressure on Iraq through sanctions that have led to Saddam Hussein becoming richer, the people poorer and the economy being criminalised. This cannot continue. One must find a solution to this. Then one by Security Council Decision 1441 before Christmas repeated the demand of Saddam Hussein for disarmament. It was a threat to power use. Does SV think it was wrong to adopt Resolution 1441? What was the advice of SV in connection with this treatment in the Security Council? Should Norway vote against 1441, with the foundation that there was substance on the use of power in the resolution? And now, when we are all agreed that the weapons inspectors will continue as long as they have something to do, the question must also be, How do my SV say that the weapons inspectors entered Iraq? Did they come completely independent of the UN decision, or did they come because of the pressure imposed by the UN on Iraq, etc. the threat of power use? I understand that SV believes that the use of power is unacceptable in any case. I then assume that SV is against Resolution 1441 and that Norway voted in favour of 1441. Does SV want to use the threat of power? Was it wrong to vote for 1441 and the threat of power use? What is the SV's view of this? How did we get to where we are today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e549	The situation that SV warned against in the context of the debate around Resolution 1441, was that they ran into a path where war was the only outcome. It was quite difficult in that debate to find out what really was in the concept of'serious consequences'. We tried to get the following out here in the Chamber: does that mean you're threatening war? Does that mean you're going to war? It was a relatively diffuse matter to get clear answers on. I believe those who say that the weapons inspectors had not been brought back today without threats of power use are right. I think the biggest mistakes you've made are ten years old mistakes in dealing with the crisis in Iraq. Our attitude is this: if you are threatening war, you must at some point be willing to make use of war and go to military action. The SV's position has been that in the situation we've had in Iraq, a war in this area has been the worst possible option. Then you can't threaten a war you think is the 'worst possible alternative'.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e556	As far as I understood Kristin Halvorsen now, SV believes that the threat of war, or the threat of using military power against the Iraqi regime, was necessary to bring the weapons inspectors back into Iraq. It is in itself alarming that SV acknowledges it, for I have not understood the party's view until now. Until now, it has seemed that SV has not recognised the important basis for the weapons inspectors to do their work. The weapons inspectors themselves have said that the strong pressure has been important. That's what gives the weapons inspectors space for action. There are no demonstrations and resistances in some European countries to the so-called UN track. The important thing is that the pressure has increased, that the military pressure is there, so that the weapons inspectors have been able to do a job. My follow-up question is: is it a principle view that SV would still not be on a line that actually brought the weapons inspectors back into Iraq? Will you always be against the use of military pressure against e.g. dictators threatening peace and security?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e564	As the representative Christiansen is well-known, few in this room have suffered more through wars and conflicts in recent years than just signed representatives. The Kosovo war was a terriblely difficult matter for us. SV is not a pacifist party. This means that in certain situations SV also agree – although there was disagreement in our party about the issue of Kosovo – that we can go to war and that military action may be necessary. But so far one has held to the following: either it has to be in a situation where one has to prevent genocide or an extreme humanitarian disaster, or it has to be in a situation where one is in self-defense. In the current situation, international law is being extended to the right to go to war with other countries if you want to change a regime or if you want to prevent a war in the longer term. It's a very serious change in international law. I agree that we are in a very big dilemma, because the sanctions that the world has had against Saddam Hussein since 1991 have worked against – and sanctions are supposed to be more peaceful than war. But the sanctions against Iraq have killed more than war so far has killed in Iraq. I agree that we are in a dilemma when it seems that in this acute situation, pressure and threats of war have brought in the weapons inspectors. But we're in an equally big dilemma if Saddam Hussein thinks there's going to be war anyway, because then he has no reason to cooperate with the weapons inspectors in any way. That's why it's extremely important to keep up the possibility that there's a peaceful way out of this, and that's what you haven't found so far. That's what Blix actually said can be found, and that's what Norway has contributed to very little.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e571	I am pleased that the representative, Mr Halvorsen, recognises that this is a dilemma and that we are facing a very difficult situation. The representative problemed around Resolution 1441 and the wording on the impact on Iraq. And the way I understood it, you didn't agree on how 1441 was designed. In proposal No 4 says SV that they want to give more time to the weapons inspectors. You've repeated that. The inspectors have to get to work, but the military pressure's gonna go away. The question, and I don't think SV has managed to answer, is, of course, what is the option? What makes Saddam Hussein cooperate? The representative Halvorsen just said that if Saddam thinks there's a war, he doesn't cooperate in any case. But is it not just that there has been a fragmentation in the Security Council, which has caused Saddam Hussein not to cooperate fully? As long as you stood together, as long as you stood together on 8 November last year, at least it seemed that this could start well, but not for so long afterwards some began to doubt their own formulations. Will not the SV's proposal to give inspectors more time, disengage the military threat, be the same as saying to Saddam Hussein that he can cast out the weapons inspectors immediately, and that the threats of the world society and the handling of Iraq are a closed chapter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e580	If there's one party that has nothing to teach away to anyone in this conflict, it's the Progress Party. If there's one party that should just sit still in the office, lock the door and think a little bit about, about war and peace and stuff, then it's the Progress Party. There is one party that should have thought through and read what they themselves said in 1988, after it was known to the world that Saddam Hussein had used chemical weapons against his own population: the Progress Party lamented that it was not our weapons he had used! If there is one party that has nothing to teach anyone about, and that in this room has not fought a ‘pilemite’ for peace, then it is the Progress Party. They have nothing to teach anyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e585	The president has some doubts about what a ‘pilemite’ is, but he wants to look it up in the foreign dictionary. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e590	On Saturday, 100,000 Northmen went out into the streets to show their resistance to a war in Iraq. Several million marched around the world. It shows that there is a great commitment to peace in the people. It's positive. I myself was in the square in Svolvær and listened to the appeals there. And I'd like to make it clear that behind the appeals and in the premises of those who were in these demonstrations, there are different assessments. I believe that it is quite wrong for the representative Halvorsen to say that the first thing they did was to go to 100 000 to protest against the Norwegian government. I think that the representative Halvorsen is actually going to get hurt in order to conduct a ranked testimonial against his almost in the way that she describes the Norwegian government's policy vis-à-vis Iraq. I'll come back to that a little later. I think it's important that a person actually speaks the truth in relation to the initiatives that have been taken. If one disagrees with the conclusion that one would get a 1441 resolution, that does not mean that one has not made an effort. On the contrary, the participation of Resolution 1441 is a strong effort for what one saw as a road to peace in Iraq. The population of Iraq is already extremely vulnerable after years of sanctions and repression. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the humanitarian consequences that a war will bring on civilians. War will kill and harm innocent people, people will be driven to flight, and we do not know what consequences it will have for the region and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the Government has so clearly said that it will do everything it can to achieve a peaceful solution to the conflict. This means that we are open to all constructive proposals that can contribute to a peaceful solution to the conflict, if Iraq cooperates. The pressure on Saddam Hussein's regime is increasing. Now Saddam Hussein will test his will. Now he has to cooperate with the UN. If Saddam Hussein is not now cooperating, a single EU does not ignore a military solution. Iraq must provide clear evidence of serious unanswered questions when it comes to chemical and bacteriological weapons. It is positive that weapons inspectors have not found weapons of mass destruction, and that there is no sign of Iraq resuming its nuclear programme. But it is alarming that they are also unable to determine whether Iraq has weapons of mass destruction. Iraq has not provided clear evidence that they have destroyed illegal weapons they have previously had. As you know, this is the case with several thousand tons of chemical fighting agents and several thousand liters of anthrax. The Christian People's Party has always been loyal to the UN in this conflict, both to safeguard peace and to preserve its role. We must not weaken the UN's ability to be a collective solution by concluding in advance. It could also ease the pressure with regard to the United States. As the Foreign Minister clearly stated in his statement, all matters of concern to international peace and security shall be dealt with by the UN Security Council, and the decisions shall be governed by the UN Charter and by current international law. Taking the UN seriously doesn't mean just using the UN when it supports one of its own. Who is to administer international law, if not the UN? Norway cannot ignore the use of military power if the United Nations is going in favour of it, nor is it a single EU. Norway may and will affect the process until a decision is taken. If the UN Security Council concludes that military power is necessary to disarm Iraq, Norway is bound by it. We cannot oppose such a resolution. Norway will respect and support a UN decision, but we will carry out an independent assessment of how we will follow this up. Norway has competence in aid, human rights and the development of democracy, so it would seem most natural for Norway to concentrate on such tasks. But here again, we need to cooperate with the United Nations in relation to how this is to be done. The Prime Minister has warned against unilateral American attacks. The Christian People's Party is firmly behind this vision. It shows the independent position of the Norwegian Government in this matter. The Christian People's Party has been dissimilar to American leaders who say, in effect, that the United States can go on its own, even though they would prefer to have the UN's approval. The United States then threatens to put the United Nations aside. There is an object we are not able to support. I want to make it so clear that if the United States goes on its own, without anchoring in a new decision of the Security Council that clearly authorizes the use of military power to disarm Iraq, it is not with the support of the Christian People's Party! It would be an American choice to put the United Nations aside. There will be no UN to set itself on the sidebar. At the same time, we must remember that Norway has two main pillars in its foreign policy. One is the UN, and the other is the NATO Pact and the transatlantic dimension. The Christian People's Party thinks it's going to be unfortunate if these dimensions collide, because both of these are of great importance to Norway. The Christian People's Party will therefore work to continue our traditionally good relationship with the United States. Our no to a unilateral American attack is not a no to the United States and the American people. As you know, there was no division between the United States and Europe in NATO on the question of defensive security measures to Turkey, but a division between Europe, where the Christian People's Party and the Government were clearly on the side of the United States in our responsibility to support Turkey. The Christian People's Party warns against creating divisions between Europe and the United States. There is nothing that will help Saddam Hussein more than a split in the international alliance. For the Christian People's Party, it's important to say something about how the UN track is going to end. Even if we are able to disarm the Iraqi regime in a peaceful way, the Christian People's Party is concerned about the human rights situation in Iraq. Amnesty calls Iraq a terror regime and one of the worst countries in the world, a regime with widespread use of the death penalty, arbitrary executions, with gross torture and who systematically abandons its political opponents. Iraqi authorities are systematically oppressing their own people. The Christian People's Party is therefore aware that diplomatic and political work must continue to democratize Iraq. To sum up on Iraq: Our goal is peace.Saddam Hussein with his weapons of mass destruction must be disarmed.We must hold on to the fact that it is the United Nations that is the right forum to deal with the conflict and to ensure peace.The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government is on track to give the inspectors more time.A military action must be absolutely the last resort, and only if the option is worse. There is a lot going on internationally, and the focus is on Iraq the most. It's an exciting and challenging time, where many new premises seem to be being made, both in the United Nations, in NATO and in the relationship between the United States and Europe. But even if some conflicts come up higher on the agenda than others, we must not forget the other challenges we have internationally. There are still 1.2 billion people living in extreme poverty, and there are still serious violations of human rights. These people don't get the attention they have. Doctors Without Borders, for five years in a row, presented a top 10 list of the humanitarian disasters that got at least the attention of the year that went on. Among the ten we can find, among other things. the famine in Angola, the civil wars in Colombia and Sudan, the forced return of refugees to Chechnya and food shortages and refugees in North Korea. It is alarming to read that the major television companies in the United States spend more time reporting on the British royal family than on eight of the crises that Doctor Without Borders' list brings together. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the famine in southern Africa. We are also concerned about the situation in Zimbabwe, with Mugabe's prosecution of the opposition and gross violations of human rights. The Christian People's Party wants the Norwegian foreign policy to be prepared to help those who need it the most. We want to use resources to prevent people from dying of silt, the HIV epidemic from spreading, and the provision of education to children and young people. The Christian People's Party believes that by working for respect for human rights and better distribution of good we will also be able to prevent conflicts and wars around the world. An important element that is often forgotten in many conflicts is the religious dialogue. This has also been the case in the Middle East and in the Iraq conflict. The Christian People's Party believes that religious dialogue is absolutely central to resolving international conflicts. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good deal, and to the Government for a tough course to find a peaceful solution in the Iraq situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e646	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e649	Should one for peace and reconciliation, look one for international law. Should one go to Bethlehem, look one after the star. There must be some such points of light in a world full of wars and conflicts. The representative, Mr Lilletun, is of those who have signalled both openness and will in relation to the proposals that have come from different countries, that we must have a debate on this before the UN Security Council takes its decisions. But I thought it would be a problem when his party then at the same time is in a government that looked at the degrees of doubt that we should have no debate, and that a nearly draw in doubt the so-called brute opinion. When people demonstrate, when Kirkja says from here – when even the officers say from there – there must be opportunities for these people to also be represented in the Government, not only here in the Grand Duchy. When e.g. The Christian People's Party of its former Secretary of State Haaland Matlary quite clearly demonstrates that Norway is getting a lot more – I kept saying nice power – by operating with value diplomacy, it's the kind of work we have to do even more. That's where we have something to pick up. In this context, I would like to ask the representative, Lilletun, whether he would like to go further and support the proposals that we, on the SV side, believe will increase Norway's value diplomacy, and which we are presenting here in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e658	First, I would like to thank the representative Jacobsen for giving me the willingness to look for solutions. At the same time, some of what I said to the representative Halvorsen must also be returned to the representative Jacobsen. I mean a witness twisted in relation to the Government when it comes to what initiative the Government has taken, and what will the Government has to find solutions. It becomes a totally unreasonable debt that one is negative to demonstrations – when the Prime Minister himself has an appeal saying that this is a powerful tool out to world leaders. But if I'm going to say something both in relation to the Church's commitment and in relation to the demonstrations, there's a lack of address to Saddam Hussein. I think it's good that an addressing to the strongest power. But I thought one from the Church's side and the demonstrators could also address something more in relation to Saddam Hussein and the terror regime in Iraq. I heard a talk by a researcher from NUPI a few days ago. He said there were two things now that made Saddam Hussein perhaps open up more. His assessment was that the military pressure was important. Hence, Resolution 1441 was important – and to stand firm on him. He also meant that they had believed there was war anyway. But the demonstrations meant that they also had to bring something more back to the world opinion, which actually made up for peace. Both of these elements therefore contribute to Saddam Hussein being more able to cooperate. So that was the assessment of a researcher. When it comes to the proposals, I have to say to the representative Jacobsen: I have full confidence that the government will work at best to find a good solution in relation to the things that are suggested. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not need to voice for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e671	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e674	This weekend we saw millions of women and men all over the world saying clearly from: no to war, yes to peaceful disarmament of Iraq. Three weeks ago, the Norwegian Prime Minister described this opinion as a campaign promoter here in Stortinget. Let me quote from the Questionnaire on 29 January: ‘My view is that Åslaug Hagas line increases the risk of war.’ I am truly happy that the Government now seems to look different on that matter. It also seems to be the case for the Workers' Party. The world community has finally given itself a seabed of time to think about. There seems to be a broad consensus on giving weapons inspectors more time. They shouldn't just get a little bit more time, they should get all the time they need. Why should they? Because the weapons inspections work. The current and previous inspection regime has uncovered and unharmed illegal weapons in Iraq. That is why Iraq is now a less military threat than before inspections started in the early 1990s. It is worth noting that this has happened without loss of life, without material destruction and without endangering regional stability. Disarmament of Iraq must continue on the basis of intensified weapons inspections, and Norway must support all constructive proposals to strengthen UNMOVIC's work. So to the sanctions against Iraq. Norway has been administering the UN sanctions against Iraq for the last two years. Norway has knowledge that can be translated into constructive input into the efforts that need to be made to build a powerful strategy for the peaceful disarmament of Iraq. The sanctions have not worked well enough. The reasons are many. The sanctions have been sabotaged by many of the UN member states. Iraq's borders have not been effectively controlled enough. The cash flows into Iraq have not been adequately controlled. It is not possible to provide the civilian population with adequate humanitarian assistance. This is discouraging. It cannot be ignored that the conditions for more effective implementation of the sanctions, for direct and exclusively affecting Saddam Hussein, have changed significantly today compared to the situation before the adoption of Security Council Resolution 1441. I do not mean to say that there are simple measures. What I'm saying is there's thinking of different teams that need to be put together into an overall strategy, so that we avoid a disastrous war. We are simply in a very difficult situation. I miss the commitment of the government. Everyone has to admit that without alternatives, we will end up in a war situation. Therefore, the Centre Party considers that all countries have a responsibility to support under the options provided and that seas use their knowledge and capacity to contribute creatively to finding alternatives. I think it is sad that Norway has largely chosen to take on a spectator role. It's the lack of willingness to seek alternatives to war that makes people take to the streets, both in Norway and internationally. People are worried about what they experience as a deterministic acceptance of war as the only solution. Let me so welcome President Bush to Norway. The central party disagrees with the line on which the Bush administration is committed on Iraq's issue and how Iraq is to be dealt with. We also disagree on other things, but it's an honest thing. But we must not now demonize the United States. We don't need to accept aggressive American polemics either. This is an increase in the level of conflict between the United States and Norway, between the United States and Europe, which we, in the name of reason, must avoid. Norway has always had a very good relationship with the United States, and we're going to use that proximity to engage in dialogue with the United States. It is important that we do not isolate the Americans, but include them in how we perceive that their foreign policy line works. It's only through dialogue that we can move on from meeting the major challenges we face globally. In recent times we have had a debate in Norway about who is most UN friendly. There's an excellent debate. I hope that the desire for a strengthened UN will be reflected in practical policy even after we have dealt with the Iraq crisis. The centre party wants a strengthened UN that can play a far greater role in the future of world society than has been the case. In order for us to achieve that, in order for us to actually do well to strengthen the UN, we must, to a large extent, avoid the United Nations being abused by any country. In the current situation, we must not allow the United States to use the United Nations as an instrument to achieve its political objectives – objectives that not only involve disarmament of Iraq, as requested by the United Nations, but also imply a requirement for a regime change, which the United Nations has never demanded. If countries allow themselves to press for consensus in the UN despite their fundamental disagreements, this will undermine the UN's authority – as simple and as difficult it is. The centre party is of the opinion that the Iraqi people deserve better than Saddam Hussein. We believe, however, that Saddam Hussein must join his own people. If we were to start an international strategy where we get rid of regimes that we don't like, we're going to end up with a very unstable and dangerous world. In relation to the Minister of Foreign Affairs' presentation, the Centre party expected us to have a certain degree of deepening of the EEA negotiations. We didn't get that. We expect and expect the Government to do what is possible to safeguard Norwegian interests in the EEA negotiations, and also take it for granted and expect the Storting to be properly informed about developments in the important process. So finally just a little turn into the World Trade Organisation and the negotiations that take place there. The WTO's proposals on agriculture, if implemented, will lead to the closure of large parts of Norwegian agriculture. This is, of course, very dramatic. There must be no doubt that the Storting needs to be briefed on the situation and on the Government's strategy to follow up agricultural issues in the forthcoming WTO round. We need a thorough round on it. We also know that negotiations are taking place in the service sector – negotiations which could also have a major impact on key sectors in Norway. There's no time to go deep into these issues now. The Central Party will therefore ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to come back with a separate WTO statement, both on agriculture and on services, and to return to that statement in the Stortinge before Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e713	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e716	A review of the Central Party's foreign policy has for a number of years been that we support the UN, we do have the UN, when the Central Party categorically rejects the committed cooperation in the rest of Europe. There has recently been considerable doubt about the support of the United Nations in the Central Party. It may seem that the Center Party only supports the UN when the United Nations does what the Center Party wants. I note that the representative Haga, like the Workers' Party, wants the weapons inspectors to complete their job in Iraq. We know that the weapons inspectors were thrown out by Iraq in 1998. Does the representative Haga think that the weapons inspectors could have done the job for the UN without at the same time having a military pressure on Saddam Hussein? The question then arises: does the Centre fully support UN Resolution 1441?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e725	The representative Eyeågen is absolutely right that the Center Party is the leading defender of the UN. We've been, and we're going to be. And because we are so concerned that the role of the United Nations should be developed and that the United Nations should become the body of international policy that we want it to be, we are very concerned that the UN should not be abused, and we are very concerned that multilateral rules must be followed. Because if we are not, the UN will not in the long term have legitimacy, nor authority. When the United States has said that no matter what the Security Council says, we will go to a military attack, we who are committed to strengthening the UN must say from, because then a non-UN rules of play will follow. The United Nations rules of the game, the multilateral rules, are simply about agreeing, not threatening the Council, nor any other body in the United Nations. So to the question of the Central Party supports Resolution 1441. Yes, we do. I have said on several occasions that when the world community has behaved as it has so far in relation to Iraq, I have also not believed that it would be possible to get the weapons inspectors in place without the threat of power. I've said that before, and I'd like to repeat that. But the challenge now is that we're going to be able to maneuver in this water so that we actually avoid a military conflict. The problem is that it does not seem that everyone has looked rigidly attached to that goal. That's why we don't see the creativity of looking at alternatives, that's why there's no willingness to think of alternatives, try it out. That's why people go out in the streets, because they don't feel safe about thinking about alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e732	I listened with interest to the answer Åslaug Haga gave to the question, and I appreciate that she answered clearly and without reservation that the Central Party now supports Resolution 1441. This means that there are not insignificant differences within what is commonly called the foreign policy opposition on the Stortinget, SV and the Centerpartie. And it's an advantage that it comes out clearly, because the contributions of Kristin Halvorsen had to be given the definite impression that the foreign policy opposition in the Norwegian Greatness disagrees with Kofi Annan, disagrees with a unanimous European Council, disagrees with Hans Blix, who has all expressed the view that there is one thing that has created the Kristin Halvorsen called the action room for the weapons inspectors, and that is the military buildup that the United States and the United Kingdom have done. If Åslaug Haga on this point fully agrees with the Council of the European Union and with those authorities, it is a significant advance. I noticed that Åslaug Haga did not mention Germany or France in his post in a single word. I think that is also a considerable advance, because it is no more than a week and a half since Åslaug Haga jubilede a proposal that did not exist. This illustrates the dilemma facing the foreign policy opposition, namely that one is looking for what Åslaug Haga now called creative proposals, but one is not able to come up with these creative proposals itself. Then it's a little funny that you criticize the government for not having a stand - while you are not able to come up with a single independent alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e739	This was a line from the representative's payroll with a lot of jumping elements, and it's a little hard to know at which end you're going to start. But let me first say that the representative is entitled to pay when he suggests that there is disagreement between the SV and the Central Party on the fundamental aspects of the security policy. We have agreed to deal with the Iraq issue and to look for all the alternatives before perhaps going to a military attack, but in other areas we disagree. It is about relations with NATO, it is about relations with the United States in general, and it is not least – if we also withdraw defence policy – about what defence this country should have. On the question of alternatives, I have to wonder if the representative for the salary was present in the room when I made my contribution. He nods corroborating. That's where I suggested, for example. It is important to consider in parallel with a strengthening of the inspection regime whether to develop a sanction regime that affects Saddam Hussein and does not affect the civilian population, as we have seen the existing sanction regime has done. And the reason why I can say that is said that the situation has changed a lot since the adoption of Resolution 1441. I now believe that there will be a completely different understanding, not least among the neighbouring countries of Iraq, of the possibility of creating an effective sanction regime. Then it is quite fascinating to hear how the EU's positions are referred to in this case. The point is that we have had a deeply divided Europe in relation to how we are going to deal with Iraq. [[President clubs]] We can come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e750	The representative Haga was injured to say that the Government and the Prime Minister had opposed popular engagement and opposition to a war situation in Iraq, and explained it with a quote from the question hour here in the Stortinget. The representative Haga knows that the answer from the Prime Minister was that if one already concluded that power should not be used, there could be support for Saddam Hussein. For me, it is still unclear what the Central Party and the representative Åslaug Haga believe about it, for they have now made it clear that they support Resolution 1441, which the Norwegian Government through the Security Council was also active in order to establish and adopt. It therefore supports the Central Party and the Haga representative. But the representative Haga has not yet given answers as to whether they are actually willing to take the consequences of a final decision in the Security Council if it would imply power use, for they have said that they will not see that anyone is using the UN. It's clear that there's always been pressure from different sides of the United Nations. But to say that there is an abuse of the UN that has occurred when five countries that have veto rights, let alone use it, and the other representatives vote for a resolution, I think I'm quite tired. If the inspectors were to say that they do not get ahead, that one here actually has to use power, is the Center Party now – contrary to when the question was asked to the Prime Minister – willing to say that the use of power can actually be relevant? And if the Center Party doesn't say that, is the party still by the leading defenders of the UN and the UN as international law institutions and initiators?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e757	The representative Lilletun now suggests that the Prime Minister answered a different question than what he was asked, when he said that war opponents are war-promoting. It will be well known that I have never said that we can at any time end up in a situation where it will be relevant to use military power. If we had meant that, we would not have accepted Resolution 1441, because it says explicitly – and I think many in this Chamber know – that there is a threat to the use of power. What has been our point throughout this process is that the risk of a war against Iraq is so great, both in relation to humanitarian suffering and in relation to the stability of the whole region, that alternatives must be sought. The government has said that war will be the last way out, and I am 100 pst. Agreed. But the problem of the debate we have had in Norway, I have experienced that there has been no willingness to look for alternatives. There has been no support for ideas and ideas that could contribute constructively to finding alternatives. The centre party is not a pacifist party. We are committed to implementing UN resolutions, but we must know that war is the last way out. When I am concerned that the UN should not be abused, I have to say that it amazes me that the representative Lilletun cannot only be 100 pst. agree and believe as I do that if the UN is to be developed into the body we want it to be, the rules of the game must be followed. Then you can't threaten yourself the way we've now seen the Americans.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e768	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e771	It is difficult for all of us, both politicians and citizens, to deal with the tense security policy situation in the world now. It is important to be clear how difficult the situation is, especially for a small country that is dependent on the functioning of the international framework. There is a significant public commitment to the situation in Iraq. Last Saturday, millions of people around the world showed what they thought about war against Iraq. Such commitment and such a popular gathering should affect state leaders and politicians around the world. The demonstrations show that democracy is alive, and that people think it's useful to engage. At all levels, this issue is about the fight for democratic principles. Both national, regional and global are more important than ever that the voice of democracy and the nature of cooperation are at stake. The need for unity is overwhelming. There is no doubt that Saddam Hussein is a tyrant who is an accident to his people, and who must be seen as a threat to his neighbors and perhaps to our own security. That is why the United Nations has adopted a number of resolutions to disarm the Iraqi regime. It is a fact that there had to be threats to military intervention to record the willingness to cooperate. His Blix's last statement in the United Nations shows this. In this critical phase, it is very important that the world community gathers together on the institutions and framework that we have built up over the past 50 years. One country cannot take patents on democracy on behalf of the rest of us. The Minister of Foreign Affairs made a very good presentation on what is the Government's line on this issue. Our goal is to find a peaceful solution to the conflict. Our aim is to disarm Iraq through the international press launched and maintained by the UN Security Council. It is the Security Council that is responsible for dealing with the Iraq issue and for maintaining international peace and security. If, in this situation, we are not united behind the United Nations as an institution, we may in future be at risk of facing a world without global, international law governance and common meeting places for conflict resolution. The left believes it is important that inspectors now have the time they need and that they at the same time have good working conditions. It is essential that UN weapons inspectors also have all the information that other country intelligence organisations may have about the situation in Iraq. This information should be provided to inspectors directly and not via statements by the Security Council. The left is pleased that this week the EU was able to unite behind a common balanced line on the Iraq issue. It gives us hope that it is possible to achieve a global gathering and consensus in the Security Council. The left is also relieved that there was agreement on defensive preparedness measures for Turkey in NATO. Should there be a war, it is a matter of course that the alliance stands up, but it is also a matter of course that Turkey follows conventions and opens the border of refugees who had to come from Iraq. The debate on how to deal with the situation in Iraq has made the United States' role as the world's only superpower clear. The left is concerned that this role is managed in a way that could lead to further suspicion and instability in the relationship between different parts of the world. Europe shares fundamental values such as democracy, individual freedom and respect for human rights with the United States. On the other hand, there is great scepticism in Norway and in the rest of Europe to President Bush's way of managing these values. Many are afraid that the crisis is escalating the contradictions between the «our» world and the «other». The left shares this concern, and we are also concerned that the United States is going to act as a world police force with no anchor in the United Nations. The United States and President Bush must also respect the UN Charter and applicable international law. It is therefore gratifying that the European Union has now joined forces. The United States needs strong friends who can sometimes play a corrective role in the fight for the values we share. Mutual respect is important to maintain the strong transatlantic ties. There are many enough dictators in this world to keep democracies together. The left, with excitement, follows the debates held by the European Union on its future role and organisation. With the agreement in Copenhagen on the development of a common security and defence policy, the EU will play a more important role in the future for European security. In these days, when everyone's eyes are on Iraq, it is easy to ignore other conflicts and other important security and foreign policy challenges. I am impressed by the job done as a host to the international donor country meeting for assistance to the Palestinian area this week. The conversations that have taken place at this meeting will hopefully lead us in the right direction. It's important that we now do everything in our power to contribute positively to the relaxation in the Middle East. The important peace movements that grow both in Israel and among Palestinians must be supported and built up. Israel must immediately stop its military actions in Gaza. It is true, as the Foreign Minister pointed out, that a solution to this long-term conflict can only be found by the swift start of the realization of the vision of the two countries – Israel and Palestine. Also on the Korean peninsula, the situation is tense. Here sits a tyrant with weapons of mass destruction, a tyrant who treats his own people in the most cruel way. This tyrannical is probably also more ‘trigger happy’ than other tyrannical world society is currently busy. The Left considers that the Government must contribute to increasing efforts to avoid escalating this security policy threat. In the long term, there has to be a goal of creating a climate that can help to re-establish talks between North Korea and South Korea, so that these countries can eventually come together. And here it is said that it is last year's peace prize winner, the UN, who has the primary responsibility and who sits at the helm when conflicts are to be resolved. The forthcoming WTO negotiations will present Norwegian agriculture with major challenges. Seeing the draft presented by Stuart Harbinson and the WTO Administration on 12 February will hardly be the final outcome of the negotiations, it clearly demonstrates the challenges facing our negotiators and the direction in which this moves. Norway has embarked on a most realistic approach and has little to go on. The same has been stressed by the EU. In the Sem Declaration, the Cooperation Government has underlined ‘that the protection of imports still needs to ensure Norwegian agricultural production in important areas’. Just import protection will be important in the forthcoming negotiations. Norwegian agriculture is expensive to operate. That is why we need a robust import protection to maintain a food production here in the country. For the Left, it is important to ensure that Norway continues to have room for action in its national agricultural policy within the framework of the WTO and other international agreements. It is therefore important that the government in the forthcoming negotiations actively cooperates with the EU and other countries that are close to us in position, as Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim said at the latest in yesterday's spontaneous Question Time. In the end, I would like to say that it is important to look at our seas and our own debates in a little perspective. Southern Africa is now threatened by acute food shortages. The government is doing, among other things, through the World Food Programme, UNICEF and the Church's Emergency Aid an important job, which unfortunately we read little about in the newspapers and watch little on TV. People in these countries lack food and suffer from mismanagement. While we are seeing joyful democratic progress in Kenya, we see that the situation in Zimbabwe is still difficult. This should be an important perspective, even for us elected people, in these days as we spend so much time discussing the amount of compensation for the high electricity costs of the North.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e803	We are now dealing with case No. 1, statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would say that the Coastal Party supports the Government, and we support the Government in terms of the UN track. We are aware that the situation can lead to war in the long term, and we are against that. I was in Bodø last weekend, where people demonstrated against war. I was in that demonstration. We support Resolution 1441, which has been adopted by the United Nations, and I think the Government has dealt with that matter very well. We are aware that there can be war. We have citizens who have two citizenships – we have citizens of Iraq in this country. I don't know if they're in the military, but it shouldn't surprise me. If we have to go to war, these citizens must fight against their own country, from which they have passports. Would it be in its place? I'm just asking the question. I am aware that the Foreign Minister spoke of nuclear pollution from Russia, and that we should do our utmost to contribute so that pollution did not increase and poison our waters. But what he didn't say was the poisoning of our oceans that's going on from England. What about Sellafield, whom he did not mention in one word? We have two organisations fighting the pollution that's going on – Lofoten versus Sellafield and Stop Sellafield. Technetium 99 is up along our coast and up to Svalbard, and it takes 230 years to halve this. Isn't that pollution? Is it from the wrong direction? Maybe so. We know that the ocean current is moving east, and we know that what's going on in Russia is going on east. But what comes from the west, from England, we know, we end up here on the Norwegian coast. We know that. We're a power force in the matter of food. Together with Russia, the Faeroe Islands, Iceland and Greenland, we have what is the world's clean food resources – yet. But it assumes that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are aware of the problem and are doing something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e816	The last few weeks have been marked by the Iraq conflict, and naturally, therefore, this foreign debate as well. Popular demonstrations in a number of countries show a strong desire to resolve the conflict without the use of military power. I see that as a positive commitment. That's also my goal, and that's the government's goal. For Norway, it is imperative to contribute to the peaceful resolution of this conflict. The Iraq debate has many aspects, such as:: How to secure that Iraq no longer has illegal weapons? That is, what is the best strategy to solve the Iraq problem without war? What protection is NATO going to offer Turkey, which is both NATO member and one of Iraq's neighbouring countries? And how do we best help the civilian population suffering under Saddam Hussein's despotic regime? The debate has created strong tensions within important forums such as the UN Security Council and NATO. It's hasty and simplified to say that there's a conflict between the United States and Europe. The disagreement between EU countries shows this. Exchange of views is a lifeblood of democracy, including in international organisations. That's how we can shed light on the different aspects and considerations. No one shall have any opinion hegemony. We must listen to and respect each other, both small and large Member States. We all have to comply with our obligations, both politically and financially, and we have to show the will to find agreed and unifying solutions. It's in the United Nations, and it's in NATO. Let me underline this, because there are two pillars of Norwegian foreign policy: multilateralism and transatlantic cooperation. Norway's Minister for Foreign Affairs, Halvard Lange, said so in this Chamber in 1956: ‘But there are two principles of Norwegian foreign policy that will always have to come before all other obligations. It is the duty to comply with the Charter of the United Nations, and it is the duty not to do anything that could harm the United Nations as an organisation.» It's a basic attitude we have to carry on. It should be followed by all UN member nations. For us it has to be of course. It is on this basis that I myself have so strongly engaged in the debate and foreshadowed the importance of following the UN track in the handling of the Iraq issue as well. The danger of war is real, and it disturbs us all. That's why we have to pick the right strategy. Norway was a member of the UN Security Council when Resolution 1441 was unanimously adopted. It ran like it was laid down, we have to follow. Individual countries must not choose their own sidings that undermine the UN strategy. That is why I have warned against pre-conclusions that remove the pressure that is needed to get Saddam Hussein to cooperate. But that's why I have also warned individual countries like the United States of America against taking military action on their own, without anchoring in the United Nations. Only the UN Security Council has authority on issues that threaten world peace. In accordance with Resolution 1441, extensive arms inspections are now being carried out in Iraq. They have given some progress, but serious open questions remain. This applies to illegal weapons of mass destruction, both chemical and bacteriological, and to rockets with greater reach than the UN has permitted. Our vision is clear: illegal weapons must be destroyed, and it must be documented. In short: destruction and documentation. Iraq is cooperating, but not well enough. Resolution 1441, which has also been accepted by Iraq, commits more than passive cooperation. The regime should do so also in its own interest, otherwise they may be at risk of the most serious consequences. Our position is clear: Iraq must cooperate immediately and to the fullest extent. Some raise doubts about the appropriateness of continuing the arms inspections of the United Nations and the International Atomic Energy Agency. We disagree with that, because inspections have an important function. Norway's position is clear. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed in his statement, weapons inspectors will have more time to carry on their work. Short and well more time. Turkey is a neighbouring country to Iraq in a vulnerable position. On that basis, the country has requested consultations in NATO. The strong disagreement we experienced in NATO gave cause for concern. When a country needs increased protection, the Alliance's response must be clear. Alliance solidarity shall apply not only in words but also in practice. Norway’s attitude has also been clear here all along. These measures shall in no way prejudge the debate of the UN Security Council on the abolition of Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction. The solidarity shown here must be strictly and clearly limited to purely defensive preparedness measures in support of Turkey. This is also the line that is now confirmed in the decision from last weekend. We saw unfortunate signs of division, not between the United States and Europe, but between countries in Europe. For Norway, maintaining alliance solidarity is of the utmost importance. A good transatlantic cooperation both through NATO and in our bilateral relationship with the United States and Canada are cornerstones of Norwegian foreign policy. It is one side of the Iraq conflict that must not be forgotten. That is the concern of the Iraqi civilian population. Iraq does not lack natural resources, but its regime lacks willingness to care for its own people. Humanitarian purposes, such as water, sanitation and health, are lowered by the regime. Large oil revenues are being wasted on luxurious presidential palaces and others that benefit the regime, including military purposes. The result is human suffering. World society must come to terms with help. On the Norwegian side, we are providing substantial support to the UN General Emergency Response Systems, and there is just enough money for both the UN Humanitarian Crisis Fund and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. We also provide help through several Norwegian non-governmental organisations. The concern of the civilian population is, of course, also among the important reasons why we are working so hard to solve the Iraq problem without war. For a war will cause many innocent people great suffering. It can also destabilise the region, it can split the international coalition against terrorism, and it can get unfortunate results in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We are in the middle of a demanding security policy situation. Today's debate shows that there is broad support for the Government's line, and I am, of course, pleased about that. Cohesion provides strength, not least when we take international responsibility. Norway is among the top contributors to international humanitarian aid, and we plan and maintain high preparedness for the rapid response of further emergency aid. The line Norway within NATO has faced in the Turkish question has also proved to be the solution on which the alliance gathers. The line that Norway has consistently followed in the Iraq issue is also consistent with the line that the EU was bringing together in its opinion three days ago. It is worth noting that Germany and France are also behind this EU opinion. Demanding weeks are ahead of us. When we so strongly drive on the UN track in the Iraq case, it is also because this is a sign of a bigger path, namely the UN's basic idea of fighting for human dignity, human rights, democracy and peace – an obligation to find peaceful solutions instead of military ones, in short, the UN as a peace organisation. That is why the UN, despite its shortcomings, has received the peace prize, no later than a year ago – also the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Yes, 13 times in 50 years, various UN organisations and UN staff have received the Nobel Peace Prize. The UN is our foremost peacemaker. The UN track is working. So let's also bet on the United Nations in the future and in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e854	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e857	The Labour Party agrees that the Iraq conflict should be handled by the UN and the UN Security Council, and we agree that only the Security Council can decide on the use of armed power. It implies that everyone must respect the decisions of the Security Council, including the United States, and that the United States has no authority or foundation in international law for unilateral military action against Iraq. It is this accession to the UN that the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister call the UN track, and that is a line we support. But at the same time, it is important to stress that although we support the handling of the conflict in the UN, Norway has a responsibility and an obligation to have an opinion on what should be the UN's position and how to deal with the various issues that arise. We should have an opinion on where the UN track is going, we cannot just say that we should follow the UN track. Then it has been important for us to stress that the weapons inspectors need time, more time. The Labour Party has said that they should be given the necessary time to do meaningful work, and that we place the decisive emphasis on what the weapons inspectors themselves think is necessary time, and that Norway not only says it at home, but actively works internationally and in the UN to follow it up – that the weapons inspectors get the time they need to see. I would just like the Prime Minister to confirm that although we all stress that we should respect decisions in the UN, Norway should have a stand of independence, independent assessments and actively work for those assessments, for example. in relation to the fact that the weapons inspectors now need more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e864	The answer to that is, of course, a clear yes. We can confirm that – not just confirm that we want to say and do this, but we have actually done that. So this is what we call entering an open door. Of course, the UN track doesn't mean you're without meaning. Our opinion has been clear, and we have expressed it both publicly here at home and in the international contacts we have, namely that the weapons inspectors need more time as long as their work is meaningful. And that was probably about the same representative Stoltenberg now expressed. This also requires cooperation on the part of Iraq. So far, the cooperation has been largely on the process, less on the substance, but we hope, of course, that the weapons inspectors in their next report can report that this goes further, so that a peaceful solution can be found to the matter. The perception that the weapons inspectors need more time is not something we hold for ourselves, as it could almost sound like. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister have frequent contacts with colleagues around the world on this issue. Of course, we have expressed these attitudes there as well. I have also had a longer telephone conversation with the UN Secretary-General where I have expressed the same point. So I find that the Workers' Party in this way is well in line with the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e875	The Progress Party has largely agreed with the Government and satisfied with the Government's handling of this matter. However, it is a clarification and clarification we have missed. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister the question: if he had been asked and invited to sign the declaration by the Heads of State of Italy, Spain, Portugal, the United Kingdom, Denmark and the Czech Republic at the end of January, would he have done so? And if he wanted to, why hasn't the government of Norway later announced that they share the views expressed in that declaration after ten of the new countries in the European Union have also endorsed it? I missed Norway among the signatories to that declaration. It seems that everyone agrees that the military structure, which has been implemented primarily by the United States and the United Kingdom, has actually been what has exerted the pressure that has led Iraq to increasingly yield. Does the Prime Minister agree that inspections and subsequent movements in Iraq would not have gone so far if the United States and the United Kingdom had not taken on military construction to show that it was serious in what was stated in Resolution 1441? Thirdly, does the Prime Minister agree that NATO's response to Turkey's request unfortunately once again shows that Norway's security is largely dependent on our having a good relationship with the United States and the United Kingdom, as France and Germany failed and only came into place after a very intense pressure? Does the Prime Minister agree that this has demonstrated that relations with the United States and the United Kingdom are crucial for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e884	As regards this letter from eight European Heads of State or Government, it was not submitted to the undersigned. Usually I don't answer hypothetical questions. The problem with that letter was two things. There was no problem with what was stated in the letter, but as I said immediately afterwards, there was something about the emphasis and emphasis that I myself would have wanted differently. There were things that did not appear in that letter, including: in relation to the relationship with the United Nations, which I would have requested in the event. The second problem was that it kind of split Europe. I am not so sure that this initiative was particularly successful, because it gave the impression of a shared Europe. There were people who signed, others who didn't, and others who weren't asked to do it. And that was for example. a minority of the current EU countries that signed this letter. As far as the second question is concerned, I think it is quite clear that both the military and the political pressure have made the inspectors come further into their work. It was only after the decision on Resolution 1441, where there is an embedded press, that Iraq lamented the invasion of Kuwait and let the inspectors in again. Nor do I think there is any doubt that the pressure that has built up later has helped Iraq to go a little further in cooperation. Then we'll hope that they will go even further in cooperation, so that you can continue along the peaceful path. The point of Resolution 1441 is not, in itself, the inspectors, but to get a disarmament of any weapons of mass destruction. Then they must be documented, and there must be evidence of disarmament. There is no doubt that for Norway, our security is very dependent on the transatlantic ties, the relationship with the United States and, to a large extent, the relationship with the United Kingdom. That is an important consideration, but not the only consideration in the handling of the Iraq conflict. It is also important for us to pay attention to the world organisation and the consequences in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e893	There is some sort of impression in the debate about the situation in Iraq that those who do not want to threaten war are not for peace. This is a rather paradoxical development of the discussion on how to ensure as peaceful a solution as possible to the greatest possible conflicts in the world. But the situation you are facing in Iraq is that you were not in a precarious situation now in a different way from what you are, for example. were in 1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001. Does the Prime Minister agree that, in relation to Iraq, there was no situation in which Saddam Hussein could be suspected of threatening other countries with war or attack? Then, in the situation of developing an international legal order that is such that there are no precarious situations in which one faces genocide or other atrocities, or a situation in which one is at risk of attack, but situations in which one can prevent by threatening war, which one opens up to. And then my second question is, where is this going to end? It is not that the world lacks dictatorships. Nor do the world lack despots or leaders who oppress their own people. When does the Prime Minister think that it is reasonable to threaten North Korea with war? When does the Prime Minister think that it is reasonable to threaten other dictatorships with war in order to ensure peace? Isn't it just that you've come up in a corner, where war, as the Prime Minister himself has said, can be the worst possible outcome, is what forces itself, anyway? [[The President clubs.]] My next question is...
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e900	The representative does not have time for any further questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e903	OK, then I'll come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e908	To begin with, where Kristin Halvorsen ended: We have more dictatorships in the world, more than the ones she now mentioned. I agree that even if a country is ruled by a dictator, one cannot for that reason go to war or threaten to go to war. There are several regimes in the world you might have wanted to replace, but the desire for a regime change is not in itself reason for war. That's why I haven't had any sense of the concept of evil axis, which the Americans have launched. But the reason why the situation is the same with Iraq is that Saddam Hussein has gone to war. And he has even proved that he uses weapons of mass destruction in war, both in the war against Iran and in the war against his own people, the Kurds, in northern Iraq. We also have a history in the United Nations throughout the 1990s, where a dozen resolutions have been adopted calling for Saddam Hussein not to repeat this, and so he has not complied with those requirements until he was put under pressure. That is why we are so much in the paradoxical situation that it is the combination of having a press, also through a military threat, and at the same time be clear that we want and can get a peaceful disarmament, which can give a peaceful outcome to this situation. Saddam Hussein knows that if he now cooperates, there will be no war, but he knows that if he does not, he is facing a serious threat. There is no doubt that there is the increasing pressure that has made him now cooperate more closely than he did initially. He did not want inspectors in Iraq until he was pressured by Resolution 1441. Ethically, as I have said, it is like this for me: the use of military power is always for me the very last resort after others have been tried. And now we're trying others.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e915	I have three questions for the Prime Minister. First of all, I am very pleased that the Prime Minister underlines the importance of increasing the time for weapons inspectors. It should of course just be missing, it probably means now most countries in the world. But what I want to ask the Prime Minister is whether he can elaborate on what's in this, and not least in the light of Stoltenberg's line that you have to actually be in and put the framework for where this UN trail is going. So, what does the Prime Minister think about the time aspects related to the work of weapons inspectors? The second is whether the Prime Minister insists that those who say no to war and yes to the peaceful disarmament of Iraq increase the risk of war. I asked him if he would stick to it, as he did in Storting's Question Time on 29 January. My third question concerns what the Prime Minister said earlier, and which I think is very wise, is that Norway should make a maritime assessment after any decision has been taken in the Security Council on the use of military power. We all hope for a peaceful exit, but we are unfortunately there that the alternative war is still reasonably topical. From the point of view of the Central Party, we believe that a decision in the Security Council is legally binding in the sense that we cannot counter it, there is no doubt about it. But we believe – and so do the international law experts – that it is still possible to believe that it is unwise. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore whether he stands firm on what he has said in the past that Norway should make a maritime assessment in the case that the UN Security Council has taken decisions on the use of military power and that it may also mean that the decision is unwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e928	With regard to the time required for weapons inspectors, our position has always been the same: as long as the work of the inspectors is meaningful. Therefore, it is not possible for us in the Norwegian storeroom today to say the number of days or weeks or months. It is necessary for the Security Council to carry out an assessment of whether cooperation is so good that inspectors find it meaningful to continue. It is not a passive position, but it is a realistic position in relation to the fact that the final assessment is in the Security Council. As for what I said in the spontaneous question hour, I'm actually holding on to it, and I'm going to explain why. What I said in the spontaneous question hour was that if one today pre-concludes that there should never be any mention of the use of military power, one might increase the risk of war. Why? Well, first of all, because we've removed the pressure on Saddam Hussein. Why should he cooperate more then? Secondly, we have, of course, legitimized that other countries, such as the United States, have been able to do so. The U.S., they don't have to care about anything more about the United Nations, we who work to get the United States onto the United Nations track, say they can just jump out of it. Then everyone knows that the danger of war is increasing. But if, from the change of lines after Åslaug Haga's own post now, I have understood correctly, maybe the Center Party does not exclude the use of power in a given situation. That's good in itself. Something else is really to jump off the United Nations track, because then a non-lethal resolution 1441 has a few things to do, and it actually voted for Norway, as far as I know without protests in the Stortinget. When it comes to self-assessment, I stand by what I have said about it. There shall be an independent assessment within the framework of international law of a decision of the UN Security Council, and that shall primarily mean an independent assessment of whether or not we are going to participate in the military ourselves or not, or in what other way we might participate, for example. humanitarian and in the context of reconstruction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e940	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a little bit more about this over time and who will decide. It is possible that he said that now, but I reacted instead that Jens Stoltenberg said that the inspectors must have the time they think they need. In the opinion of the European Council, France and Germany also took part in an opinion stating that it is the Security Council to decide on the time for inspectors. I would like confirmation that the Prime Minister and the Norwegian Government also believe this, and not what Jens Stoltenberg said, namely that it was the inspectors themselves who had to decide how long they were going to be there. It seems to me to be transferring a little too much power and responsibility to the inspectors and out of the United Nations. I would like it to be stated that it is the UN Security Council that decides this. My second question relates to Resolution 1441, whether the Government believes that it actually also authorizes action. It says in 1441 that it's the last chance given through it to Saddam Hussein. It is also confirmed in the opinion of the European Council of 17 February, which reads: ‘Iraq has a final opportunity to resolve the crisis peacefully’. They have already had the last opportunity to cooperate. Does the Government then believe that the house is already in place in Resolution 1441 and all the other resolutions as well, for an action where there will be consequences if Iraq does not comply with its obligations?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e954	When it comes to the question of more time, I think it's important that one is accurate. There have been some imprecise statements in the debate on this. It is not certain that the inspectors themselves will say how much more time they need. I think that's actually a little bit unlikely that they'll do. They might say if it's meaningful to continue with the inspections, but I think the most likely thing is that they don't specify a specific timeframe for their further work. In any case, it will have to be up to the Security Council to assess and decide this. Of course, other UN Member States may also have an opinion on this once the inspectors have notified back, but the responsibility lies in any case with the Security Council for carrying out that assessment. On the issue of Resolution 1441, it talks about serious consequences. As far as I remember, after that decision in the Security Council, some of the permanent members stated that it did not necessarily imply the use of power, that is, military use of power, but they did not exclude the possibility that it could do so. That is why it is so important, and it has been the position of Norway, that this matter must be brought back to the Security Council. They shall finalise the assessment thereof. Therefore, we have considered that any action must be anchored in a decision of the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e961	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e964	First, a small note to the representative Hagen's comment on my reply. I believe that Hagen there constructs problems, in the sense that it is obvious and obvious and many times stated by both myself and others from the Workers' Party that it is the Security Council that finally takes a decision as to whether the weapons inspections should continue. The weapons inspectors are working on behalf of and from the Security Council. What I said was that Norway should have an independent opinion and an independent opinion, and our attitude and our opinion is that these weapons inspections should continue as long as they are meaningful. It is precisely the nuance I am concerned with: it is absolutely right and important to respect the decisions of the Security Council, at the same time it is important to have an independent view of what decisions the Security Council should take. Our position is that the Security Council should take decisions that will ensure that the inspections of weapons continue for as long as they are meaningful. Of course, in an assessment of whether it is meaningful to continue, it is crucial whether the assessments and views of the inspectors themselves are meaningful to continue. The Foreign Minister used most of his statement to talk about the current situation in Iraq. I would also like to dedicate my comments to that question and leave the other questions behind. Last weekend 60,000 people went on trains for peace in Oslo, and there were demonstrations in many other places in Norway and in many other places in the world. This is a strong expression of the fear that people feel of a possible war against Iraq. I share that fear. The use of military power leads to suffering for civilians, the loss of human life and the risk of new conflicts. That's exactly why it's so important for the world community to help us find a peaceful solution to this conflict. And that's exactly why it's so important that it's the UN Security Council dealing with the whole issue. Only the UN can assure that all political and diplomatic solutions have been tried first. In his presentation to the Security Council last week, Hans Blix stated that the weapons inspectors can do more if they have more access to, among other things. technical aids. He also said that there was some improvement in Iraq's willingness to cooperate. Iraq has now also accepted the use of U2 aircraft by weapons inspectors in its work. It is therefore clear that the UN's pressure on Iraq is working, and this may indicate that Iraq is beginning to understand the seriousness of the situation. It is now important that weapons inspectors get the time they need. Norway has to say clearly that we do not believe the time has come for military action. At the same time, we know that the ability of weapons inspectors to succeed requires that the UN pressure on Iraq be maintained. This was also the clear message from the 15 EU Member States when they adopted a joint opinion earlier this week. The opinion emphasises that the EU's objective is a full and effective disarmament of Iraq and that war is the last resort. This is a position that is entirely in line with what the Workers' Party has expressed on many different occasions. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said in his statement that it is the UN Security Council that must deal with the conflict in Iraq and that it is the government's policy to do everything possible to achieve a peaceful solution to the conflict. We fully agree with that. Therefore, Norway must not only await decisions in the UN, we must also have an opinion on what should be done, and we must actively contribute to all possible peaceful solutions being tried. We believe that if weapons inspectors find weapons of mass destruction, it must lead primarily to a political agreement with Iraq on full disarmament. It's not like finding weapons of mass destruction automatically means war. We know that the situation for the civilian population in Iraq is very difficult. The Labour Party has agreed that Norway is providing humanitarian aid and that, in the light of the danger of war, we are already providing humanitarian aid to prevent unnecessary suffering to the civilian population. If we believe it is right that we prepare by planning defensive measures to defend Turkey in the event of a war, it must also be right to plan and prepare for humanitarian action in the event of a war. We think we should do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e987	Following the two major summits of the autumn – the NATO Summit in Prague in November and the European Union Summit in Copenhagen in December – we look forward to a more comprehensive and more collaborative Europe than ever. Important pieces fell in place: the EU concluded negotiations with 10 candidate countries, the intention to start negotiations with Turkey on EU membership was confirmed, and prospects for increased cooperation with the EU’s new neighbouring country Ukraine, Moldova and Belarus were established. NATO also made a number of groundbreaking decisions in Prague: enlargement with seven countries, three of which are former Soviet states, cooperation agreement with the EU on the use of NATO resources, the establishment of the NATO Russia Council, the establishment of the NATO Response Force – to mention something. The impression that a new European order was in place can well be said to have been somewhat weakened over the past few weeks. Conflicts between countries both in NATO and in the EU have clearly shown that Europe continues to be made up of different countries with different positions. However, I believe that the most prominent feature of the EU today is the fundamental will for cooperation and the will to compromise – including on international issues. This willingness to cooperate is not situational and volatile. It has become something that defines the EU — it has become part of the European political culture, as Mr Jagland said earlier today. EU countries have undertaken to seek common solutions, even if they do not always arrive at the first attempt. The statement by the fifteen Heads of State or Government of the European Union on Monday on the Iraq crisis clearly shows that the first crossroads is not giving up the ambitions to come together. The declaration is a compromise. On the one hand, it is emphasised that the aim is the disarmament of Iraq by peaceful means, and that military power is only the last resort. But at the same time, it becomes clear that Iraq will be responsible for the consequences if the regime does not use this last chance to cooperate and to implement UN decisions. The EU's overall position and joint declaration could have a very significant impact on the future of the Iraq crisis. The possibility of reaching a common position in the Security Council now, in my opinion, has increased following the joint declaration by the EU Council. It becomes clearer than ever that cooperation in the EU is important for cooperation in the UN as well. In the further work of the Security Council, the role of the United Kingdom is likely to be very important in order to have an overall view of the Security Council in place. Neither Germany nor France have placed themselves in a particularly favourable position to finally arrive at a common understanding with the Americans. The United Kingdom has in many ways become a very important link in the transatlantic relationship, and there is something Norway should not underestimate. A number have been written recently on the consequences of conflicts between European countries and between the United States and European countries in the longer term. I think we have to expect more disagreements and more conflicts than we've been used to. However, my conviction is that Europe and the United States are more united than fragmented, because we need a large toolbox to meet different challenges in international policy. There are many examples in history that successful diplomatic solutions are often based on an underlying will to put power behind the requirements. Here the United States has been very important. It had e.g. are unlikely to have been weapons inspectors in Iraq without the military pressure from the United States. This is why it doesn’t make much sense when someone talks about Norway having to choose between Europe on the one hand and the United States on the other. We still need the United States in Europe. But we should work for more Europe in the United States, to put it this way, in the form of an increased understanding of the importance of an international legal order, increased recognition that free trade agreements, political processes and economic assistance are important instruments in international policy. In my opinion, it is easier for Norway to contribute to this understanding in the United States by becoming a member of both NATO and the EU than by just joining NATO. Finally, I would also like to praise the Government for raising the issue of nuclear safety as high as they have done. It is an important issue where both European countries and the United States stand together and have common interests. So this is an important bet area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1015	I was born during World War II and grew up in postwar times, and there was one question I asked my parental regeneration: why were Adolf Hitler and the Nazis not stopped in 1936 or 1937? Why did one follow the line to Chamberlain and passively so that Hitler prepared to take over several countries by going to war, without intervening while one could have done so? I hope my grandchildren don't ask: why didn't you stop Saddam Hussein properly while you had time? Probably you should have done it a long time ago, but now it's at least going on. It is to prevent the possible use of weapons of mass destruction against other countries and the population that Saddam Hussein must be disarmed. That's the target. He must be disarmed, preferably in a peaceful way. If not, it must be a UN-organized action that disarms him. We therefore give our full support to the UN's work and Resolution 1441, which is the last opportunity for Saddam Hussein to cooperate and clarify to the inspectors that all weapons of mass destruction have been removed, that it is a real disarmament. When this is the last opportunity, as stated in the resolution, respect for the UN and the UN Security Council is obviously on the agenda. If the UN does not implement the objective of this resolution, respect for any subsequent Security Council resolutions in other contexts, in other countries and in other conflicts will lose the weight of the Security Council resolutions. That is why it is also true, as has been pointed out both from England and America, that respect for the Security Council is also at stake in this matter. So we're giving our support, as our main figure Morten Højlund has explained earlier. I will also be allowed to take up the background of our proposal. We can read in the nations for today: ‘State Secretary Kristin Örmen Johnsen of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs confirmed at a LO conference in Molde on Tuesday that persons from the new EU Member State can freely come to Norway to work from day one when they become EU members. This means that millions of Poles, Czechs and other 10 EU candidate countries will be able to come to Norway next spring if they get a job here.’ It also says that getting a work permit is very easy to fix. In addition, it says: ‘Many EU countries, including Finland and Germany, have reserved a transitional period of seven years before opening up free labour. Sweden and Norway become among the few breathing holes for the new EEA citizens.’ Unfortunately, we now have a tendency towards growing unemployment in Norway. Unfortunately, the government has already opened up the liberalisation of labour immigration rules. Just the Progress Party voted that we should not have that liberalisation. So the problems will only grow, and next spring, people from the ten new EU countries can freely come to Norway and work. This can cause significant problems for many of the unemployed we already have, and those we are going to have. Therefore, it should be clear that Norway also had the formal position in the EEA negotiations that we will have the same transitional period of seven years as several of the countries have secured and are currently being discussed in other countries. We think that the hopeless thing for many of those affected by unemployment, who will be struggling with major economic and other problems to get back to work, is that they should bear in mind that they also have to compete with many who come from other countries. It's not encouraging at all. We therefore hope that other parties will now do the same as Finland and Germany, which are on the steps of several, namely try to have a transitional period of seven years to open up the free labour market in the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1038	If we are thinking that parts of the causes of the whole issue we are dealing with today, war, conflict and terrorism – and the latter, terrorism, we are obviously in favour of an action against – of poverty and unfair trade arrangements, we should look at what is happening in the WTO. It also spent a lot of time with the Foreign Minister. He did, too, when he was here in the autumn of 2001. On 7 November, the Minister of Foreign Affairs said to us: ‘WTO will become an increasingly important tool for combating poverty and promoting social development and political stability. However, this requires further development of WTO legislation. We need to enable the WTO to meet new challenges.’ My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will then be: What is Norway going to do? We're going to go with the Third World, promote the poor countries, or we're going to be on a different and more offensive line in relation to, for example. liberalisation of services? These are two different directions to which it would have been interesting to the right of the Foreign Minister's comment. One might question whether increased free trade and liberalisation promote peace and stability in the world. That trade is generally positive, there is little doubt about it. But social injustice has emerged as one of the causes of war and terror. When we see at the same time that one has to try to correct the trade liberalisation that is taking place, among other things. through the WTO, through assistance aimed at combating poverty, we should look at whether the trade regimes currently in force in noise pescia are appropriate. When it comes to reports, not least from the UNDP, that it goes the opposite way, Norway should also look at this again. The UNDP leader, Mark Malloch Brown, who has been here in the Storting several times, said to the press agency IPS that he had lost the night sleep of the UNDP had said about the WTO, because the report so clearly showed that the liberalisation of trade does not support the corps of the poor, it seems rather opposite, while slowly but surely building up behind usable customs walls, is what has worked, for Norway and for other countries. It is pointed out that several groups view the WTO as impossible to reform, perhaps most because the WTO so little wants openness and dialogue. Many of the enormous demonstrations we have seen in the cities where the WTO has met, where the rounds have gone and the negotiations have been on, have just been because one has not wanted dialogue. There may be youth, there may be other people from Western countries, from the rich countries, but the WTO has not been able to enter into dialogue with them. This has not had such great consequences for young people and those involved in the rich countries, but there is something about feeling rejected and not being able to participate in that process. Even worse is it for those in the poor countries who may be affected by the consequences of the WTO's structural policy. They also feel that they should be more involved in this. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he can comment on how Norway can help them to get more involved in that process. Does Norway have any leads, any suggestions to do so in a better way? Poor people who feel the consequences of the structuring policy on their bodies and the many engaged people – I'm also going to tip in the Young Right – want this to go into a better path. For Norway, the part of the WTO agreement dealing with services, GATS and the obligations in place there could lead to increased deregulation and privatisation. GATS debt at all levels of government, and the municipalities, which are the largest service providers of most, have no influence on design and can be forced into privatization that is unnecessary. Now I'm not here to say that public per. the definition is good, and that private per person. definition is bad, but we can be pressured to privatize more than we think is good. There will be enormous consequences for Norwegian agriculture if we are to implement what is in the WTO framework. It is good that the export support is likely to go away. It's positive. But can the Minister of Foreign Affairs promise Norwegian farmers that a loss of export will be compensated for by the fact that one can get more money on so-called non-production-driven production?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1054	First, a little visit to SV, which has been very confusing in this debate. On the one hand, SV is full of praise for the weapons inspectors and the work that Blix has done so far, and not least for the action room that the weapons inspectors now have. Kristin Halvorsen came in his post with an important admission. She said that the threat of using war has led. This threat led to a recurrence of arms inspectors. On the other hand, Kristin Halvorsen takes a distance from this threat. She said in her post that you can't threaten a war you think is the worst possible option. So SV is opposed to Security Council Resolution 1441, but very much for what was the result of the military pressure. It was one of the same thing we saw in the Afghanistan conflict, one was very opposed to the bombing, but very much for the result, namely that the Taliban regime disappeared. There are a lot of people who now ask, without getting any answer from SV: what is SV's option? It doesn't keep saying that we want a peaceful solution, it wants everyone. SV has to explain how they can say crystal clear that they are against the military threat, but very much so that the weapons inspectors are now going to do their job. I don't feel any need to defend the Progress Party, but since SV now took up the fact that it would support Iraq 20 years ago, it might be good to remember that the West, NATO and the United States supported Iraq and Saddam Hussein during the war between Iran and Iraq, and it must be allowed to ask: was it so that SV had a clear vision that no one else had? Norway provided massive support to the Iraqi regime at that time. I don't remember that SV was for Iran or Ayatollah Khomeini. It is worrying that we have such a strong focus on a few conflicts. According to the Worldwatch Institute, we currently have 49 regional conflicts, 33 of which are warriors. The wars taking place in Africa are, to a large extent, a struggle for natural resources. It's about oil, gold and diamonds. In Sierra Leone, Angola, Congo and Sudan, there are between 7 million. and $8 million. people killed because of war. Only in Congo is about 2 million. humans have killed for the last five years, without giving birth to much other than a small column here and there. It's very important that we don't forget these conflicts. This concerns Côte d'Ivoire, the war on Western Sahara and many other forgotten conflicts. But conflicts sometimes deal with more than material things. War, and also the fight against terrorism, can also be a struggle for attitudes, minds, and faith. This applies to both the Middle East, Nigeria and Indonesia. We must now work to establish and improve the dialogue between religions. This must be done both nationally and globally. Fundamentalist attitudes, such as the fact that dialogue is a betrayal, must be countered. The Christian People's Party believes that trust and respect must be the starting point for ignorance and fear. The organisation of public talks between leading representatives of the current outlook on life is now a key challenge for politicians, the media and the society of life. But it's important that we also see the points of light. The reputable magazine The Economist states that Africa is becoming more democratic, contrary to what most outsiders believe. Kenya has undergone dramatic changes, and evolution here gives hope. After 24 years of power, President Moi had to admit that the government party had lost in favor of opposition candidate Kibaki. The elections were concluded democratically and peacefully. It is positive that our development minister has just visited Kenya, and that Norway wants to help in the fight against corruption. I would like to mention that the Christian People's Party Group has taken the initiative and asked the Presidency to consider inviting newly elected Kenyan parliamentarians to Norway so that they can learn and benefit from our democratic traditions. Norway, with its foreign policy, is promoting development in the poorest countries. But if we are to be able to achieve the UN's Millennium Goals, it also means that our national policies need to be changed. WTO negotiations are difficult, and they challenge important national interests. The WTO offer is dramatic for Norwegian agriculture. At the same time, it is important for the poorest countries. This is a situation that challenges our desire to contribute to the development of the poorest countries in the world, while at the same time wanting to preserve our Norwegian agriculture and living areas. I think it's going to be a cool problem, but it should be possible that both considerations can be taken care of. We live in a globalized world, where we all depend on each other. This means that we need to solve our challenges and secure common values together.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1071	The Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement showed with all clarity what a serious and unsafe situation we now have internationally. The relationship with Iraq is a challenge for the entire world community. That is precisely why it is so important that this situation is fully addressed by the UN Security Council, which, on behalf of the UN Member States, is set to manage world peace and security. The Labour Party believes that through the UN, the Member States must find a peaceful solution to the crisis in Iraq. The use of military power leads to suffering for the civilian population, leading to a risk of further conflicts. Norway must therefore actively contribute to the experimentation of all possible peaceful solutions. Although we are not in the Security Council, Norway needs to use all the opportunities we have to influence all the parties involved to work for peaceful solutions to this conflict. War is the last way out. Recent developments have clearly shown the need to allow weapons inspectors to continue their work in Iraq. Combined with a military press, it is hoped that this will eventually make Iraq and Saddam Hussein realize that they need to cooperate fully. Then it is also good that the SV and the Central Party have made it clear today that they believe the military pressure was necessary to get the inspectors back into Iraq. There has been no credible alternative to this strategy from any party in this debate. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, in his presentation, concerned environmental cooperation with Russia. It is important that Norway continues to maintain a high level of activity in this area, as in other areas of cooperation, in relation to our neighbouring country. The working party was, with more, concerned that, as a result of the agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party on the budget for this year, it was less likely to go along with the important project cooperation that Norway has in our neighbourhoods. The social and health situation is worrying in North-West Russia. It's not right for us to close our eyes for this. Radioactive pollution can be cross-border, either directly or in the form of contamination of the Barents Sea and the fish present there. The pioneering efforts of Norway in the environmental field are internationally recognised. Therefore, priority must be given to increasing the safety of nuclear installations and the safety of nuclear material and radioactive waste in our large eastern neighbour. In this context, it is good that Norway has now committed itself to financing the scrapping of two Russian nuclear submarines, and I would ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to elaborate on the progress and nature of this cooperation. So finally a few words about the important negotiations that are now taking place in the WTO. The agricultural chief agricultural negotiator Stuart Harbinson has presented a proposal that has sent tremors into the Norwegian agricultural sector, but also into ‘old Europe’. The Doha Round is primarily about safeguarding the interests of developing countries. It is therefore important to get rid of the dumping of food that is harmful to the production of the poor countries themselves. All indications are that the pressure on European countries from the rest of the world that want to liberalize trade will lead to major changes. It is and will be the EU's handling of the Doha Round that is becoming crucial for us in this field. This is also where our most credible partners exist. Norway, together with Finland, has special problems in our northern regions, with a difficult climate for agricultural production and a vulnerable settlement. Stuart Harbinson of the WTO has so far failed to submit proposals that meet the EU and Norway’s demand for non-trade groups, such as: covers rural development, environmental support, safe food and animal welfare. The proposal put on the table so far is a threat to marginal agriculture in Norway and Finland, where production in no way threatens world trade either. Is the government intervening with the EU so that, together with a heavy and influential organisation, we can exert influence on the final result? Or is the government concentrating its forces on cooperation with Switzerland and Korea? Given the great impact that WTO negotiations can have on, inter alia: districts and agriculture in Norway, we wish the Labour Party to allow us to discuss the WTO in an open and transparent manner at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1094	I made a broad statement about Iraq exactly a week ago. I have not asked to be allowed to give any additional statement this time, because the main points as we saw them last week are still standing. I underline that, because I want to limit my post today to dealing with some of the issues. However, I would like to begin by stressing that this big debate bears out a broad consensus on the policy we are going to pursue in relation to Iraq. It is a great strength for a small country that we are able to maintain this broad consensus. It is our common goal that we should be able to resolve this conflict without the use of military resources. At the same time, I would also like to stress the seriousness of the situation we are facing. The UN has repeatedly made clear demands on Iraq. There are requirements on which Iraq cooperates in terms of process but not in terms of substance. UN weapons inspector Hans Blix has had several presentations in the Security Council where this is evident. Even after the last presentation on 14 February, the many and serious unanswered questions remain unanswered. Also Foreign Minister Powell made a longer statement in the Security Council. I understand that Kristin Halvorsen sees it as having given this statement my unreserved agreement. I'm sure Kristin Halvorsen will remember that is not quite right, because I noticed that in a few areas there was a debate going on. But it probably can't affect the fact that this statement, to its extent, puts on the table rather heavy information that the world community must take inwards. It's not a question of whether this was new information, but it's a question of whether it was correct information, and it says a little about the seriousness of the situation we're facing. I asked in my presentation a rather central question that I would like to repeat: if it is such that Saddam Hussein has nothing to hide, why can he not then cooperate to the satisfaction of the inspectors and the Security Council? That's the fundamental question. And it can in many ways be elaborated by the following problem: if it is that Saddam Hussein does not have weapons of mass destruction, it must be based on one of two scenarios, either that Iraq was free of weapons of mass destruction when the inspectors had to leave Iraq in 1998, but without knowing it, or that Saddam Hussein later removed weapons of mass destruction, but in a way that cannot be documented. The probability of these two scenarios is probably not all the world, and that means that here we are facing a serious challenge, which the Security Council has thus unanimously addressed. And when it comes to it, it's both because here we have a long history of UN resolutions that have been violated, where cooperation is not in place, and because we now more clearly acknowledge the great uncertainties that are. It's one of the lessons of September 11, that there's uncertainty, unpleasant uncertainty, that we can't close our eyes to, and that's what the Security Council has not done by giving Saddam Hussein a last chance. When the Security Council uses the phrase ‘last chance’, it is an emphasis on the seriousness of the matter now, that it reaches the moment when Saddam Hussein has to accept and implement UN requirements. But as I said in my presentation, the time for this last chance is not yet over, and then it's also crucial that this time is spent properly. But there must be no doubt in our search for instruments that it is Saddam Hussein who last and last sits with the instrument, namely to be able to cooperate to the satisfaction of the United Nations. It's often required, it's often underlined, and we don't have to express ourselves as if that requirement is no longer there. That's what's the central requirement, as it's also come from a number of posts in this room earlier today. With regard to the small opposition that has been against the broad perception that is in Stortinget, I have to say that I have wondered a little about what the alternative to Resolution 1441 is. I have noticed that SV has punished the Government and me many times to be unclear or passive, or whatever it might be. But the reality is that SV has not been in the vicinity of promoting a single position on how to achieve otherwise than the way Resolution 1441 provides. We have today received a proposal for a decision to guarantee Saddam Hussein that he will not be met by military means if he continues to ignore the UN's demands. But besides that, it's SV that hasn't been able to put a single position on the table. I asked for advice from SV during the previous debate we had, in October, but got no answer, and I must note that the answer is still not there. So far as the Senter party is concerned, it's closer. I think it is interesting to hear that there are now extended sanctions that should be the instrument. It's a little surprising, because it's been a one-sided criticism of the instrument of sanctions for many years up to now, and so the few have thought that this was a dangerous way forward. I believe in many ways that the committee leader, Jagland, had many important observations relating to the sanctions regime. Otherwise, I noticed that the Center Party usually remedied the Government for so-called inaction. Nor is it this time, I think, a well-founded criticism. You might recommend the Center Party to show a little bit more willingness to listen to and analyze what's coming. The centre party actually got hurt to punish me not least because I did not want to join a plan that it turned out not even existed. So maybe a little bit more passivity on the Center Party's hand would also be wise in dealing with the world of reality we're facing. It has been said that some of the inspectors that I am not going to repeat, just stress that it is clear from the statement that the government has spoken several times in favour of an extended period for the inspectors. Not least we said that after the statement made by the inspectors on 27 January of this year, and that has also been explained later. When there has been such a prominent point in the debate today, I interpret it as a connection to the line we have put on, and I do not see to it that there is a basis for any other line than the one we have put on here. However, it must be up to the Security Council, as the contracting authority for the inspectors, to assess how the inspection regime is to be passed on in a meaningful way. I think it was Jens Stoltenberg who used that expression, and I think that is a very central expression in this debate. Then there's also raised a couple of other questions that there'll be little time to answer. I might just mention that I fully agree with the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to highlight the Palestine-Israel conflict as a very important element. I also fully agree with him that it is the Quartet that is in many ways at the forefront of the political trail. But I must stress that we in Norway have said that the so-called road map must now be adopted and laid down. There's no need to wait any more with that. It is also important for us to highlight the humanitarian situation on the Palestinian side, and that was the background to the previous meeting, in the donor country group for Palestine. As far as the WTO is concerned, I would like to remind Jacobsen of the following: what we are doing now, we are doing in the light of the Doha Round and the missions given there. I have the impression that Jacobsen is infecting that basis, but will then remember all the damage socialism has done in the third world over the last decades, and will recommend that you follow the path that is there. In the EEA area, I record the point of view of the Progress Party, which is not new, and which they have made very clear to us. There we disagree, and I would like to remind you that there were similar concerns when Norway signed the EEA Agreement on what we should get from Southern Europe. It didn't make any sense. The southern Europeans discovered that Norway was a cold, wet, and dark country, and did not come and ask for our jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1123	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1126	One important reason for the opposition to American policy, especially in the Arab world, is that there has been no pressure to get to a Palestinian state that has been made to disarm Iraq. The Security Council has for 30 years required withdrawal from the occupied territories. The Security Council has given its assent to a Palestinian State. The Security Council has condemned the Palestinian terror. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: what can Norway do now to get the United States and the Security Council to impose on the parties to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict the same demands to comply with the UN resolutions they are calling upon Iraq? I am aware that the resolutions in this conflict are not under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, i.e. the so-called coercive measures, which is what the resolution on Iraq is. However, the question has to be what can be done to get through these resolutions. I know that of course it's an incredibly controversial question to travel. When I do it anyway, it's because you have to start asking that question soon. Is it simply time for these resolutions, which relate to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, to be brought under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter in order to get the parties to understand the seriousness? You can no longer live with this conflict either, just as you cannot live with Saddam Hussein's regime in Iraq continuing and not being disarmed. But the most important question is, what can we do to get this message clearer, among other things. To the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1135	I agree with Mr Jagland that the point in this matter is not under which chapters the resolutions have been adopted. What is important here is to try to get the political trail on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict to continue and realize what the United Nations has adopted a number of times, and to realize in itself what the parties ultimately think should be the important end point. What is our mission here is not to disarm a dictator, as it is in Iraq, but it is to make two people live peacefully side by side, and in such a way that it really is a way forward. I agree with what Mr Jagland said in his introduction, namely that it is primarily the Quartet that draws the political trail forward. But there is no reason either – and I agree with Mr Jagland – to hide that it is important to get the United States to commit itself in such a way that pressure is put in, so that the vision of the two countries side by side can also be realized. And Norway has repeatedly promoted this view towards the Americans, stressed that it is important, and I think we would be in a better situation if there had been much more pressure on it. The way we can work on this is to continue in the same way, to express our views and at the same time to help bring this process forward by killing our foremanship in the donor country group for Palestine in a proper and proper way. It is a track that gives us good contact with all parties in the conflict. If the President permits this, on Tuesday I had a meeting with five of the Palestinian ministers on the question and again got a clear understanding of what I have said to the Stortinget a number of times before, that when Norway is useful to the Palestinians, it is because we also have entrances to the Americans. And they asked me to take up a number of more defined questions with the Americans, because they knew that we have good contacts that way too. In this way, Norway can make a useful and important effort to resolve this unfortunate conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1148	I would like to allow the Foreign Minister to comment on an area that he did not have much time for in his speech, namely the WTO. This was affected in the Foreign Minister’s statement last week. Norwegian interests, as defined by the majority of the population, are, in short, about fighting for full trade liberalisation in fish, and, as far as agriculture is concerned, as far as protection is concerned, in order to put it in a simplified perspective. It is, as I see it, relatively illogical and perhaps difficult to argue with compared to counterparties. The Executive Director of the Economic and Social Committee on 5 February shall be replaced by the following: ‘It is more important for us to be able to export fish than it is to slow down imports of cheese, cereals and meat.’ It would be interesting to hear the foreign minister's comment on that, whether the foreign minister agrees with that quote. The same leader states that Norway, Japan and a few other countries are considered to be ‘exprehensive extremists’ in relation to the WTO agricultural negotiations. Is Norway worth being considered such an eccentric extremist? Are we not better served by being active, on-going, for liberalisation, whether it be fish or agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1162	I am so sorry that I did not have more time to talk about the WTO in my main post. However, when I had the priority I had, it is partly because Iraq is so important, but also because the Government is discussing with the bodies of the Storting these ongoing issues that we are facing here. It is important to stress that we are based on the work that was done in Doha, on the consensus that was reached there, which we have also cleared with the Stortinget. I probably feel that some of the debate on the WTO that we have in the main hall is partly about someone not agreeing with or regreting a little of what was agreed in Doha. Well, it's got to be. I think a freer world trade is important to the whole world, the opposite we have good experience because there is no good idea. I also think it is illustrated when it comes to service negotiations, which obviously some people have learned that we should not put so much pressure on. It is important for Norwegian interests, and I also believe that for developing countries having good and efficient shipping services worldwide will be very important for their economic development. When it comes to agriculture, it's clear that we have a very special challenge, as far north as we are, and that's why we have positions that aren't too many parts. That's absolutely right. I don't think we should set up agriculture and fish against each other, also because the sequence of the conversations that are about to take place now means that it's now we address the agricultural issues. I think that there is the core of whether it should be possible to move forward in the rounds of negotiations. It is a very difficult race, and even for those who believe that we have to change Norwegian agriculture quite significantly, it is clear that what is now being discussed, among other things. In the WTO, we face very significant challenges, to say the least. We have to assume that the result can be quite different from what we now have, and that means that we can have a good deal of change in Norwegian agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1169	It was a very interesting and also eye-catching line that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr Jagland, had on the Foreign Minister, namely the idea of imposing coercive measures also in relation to the situation in Palestine and the possibility of establishing a Palestinian State. It was a very revealing answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If you transfer that answer from the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the discussion and the situation we have around Iraq, you would have to answer that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Norwegian Government has no Middle East policy, there is no policy towards Palestine and Israel, because the Minister of Foreign Affairs is not immediately ready to impose coercive measures against Israel in order to achieve the establishment of a Palestinian State. Then you've gone very far. It is precisely this Minister for Foreign Affairs who has accused the SV and the Central Party of this debate: if you are not willing to threaten with military power and coercion, there is no policy in relation to a situation. It could be understood that this was an acute crisis initially, but it is so that even the Prime Minister says there was no acute crisis. The situation in Iraq is no more acute now than it was in 1998. The truth is that the Western policy towards Iraq has failed from Day 1. First, Saddam Hussein has been built. Thereafter, it has not been possible to pursue any sanction policy or threat policy that has undermined him. Now you're in the situation that you can face a war, and Norway's role is also interesting to ask. That is why I would like to know whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs can say anything about Norwegian military assistance, whether they are prepared in the event of a war in Iraq, whether there are any preparations for military participation, whether Norwegian forces have already been deployed in Iraq, in Northern Iraq, in Kuwait, or whether such rapid action is being prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1176	I have understood very well the message sent by SV, namely that military instruments will not be used in the Iraq conflict. That means the same thing as sending Saddam Hussein a guarantee of what you don't want to do. That means that this is really up to Saddam Hussein himself, unless you find other ways to get something out of it. That's basically what I've been asking: if you're saying that you don't want to follow the scheme that UN Resolution 1441 draws up, what do you intend to do? That's what question SV has not been able to answer. Then you're left to interpret SV so that what they're saying is: then it's okay that Saddam Hussein determines the speed of this question, and then we accept the answer he gives. If there are other lines that you want to draw up, like this. The center party pulled up, about sanctions or something like that, it would be interesting to hear it. It's not to polemize against it, but I'm actually a little interested in hearing just what SV would have wanted to do in that case. It's essentially the central question that we are facing a series of violations of UN resolutions, and you have no right to answer what you want to do with it. The result is that if you say that this is up to Saddam Hussein, you say that a large number of UN resolutions really don't matter. I think that is a very strong message.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1183	One obvious weakness both at Colin Powell's statement to the Security Council and the Foreign Minister's statement here in the Chamber is that we are not going to go into this matter of what an acute danger Saddam Hussein actually poses. We hear indications that he does not pose a greater threat than in 1998, but my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is simply whether he can elaborate on the extent to which he perceives Saddam Hussein as a real threat, because it is a very relevant question as to how long the weapons inspectors should have to work. We know that a core theme in the Security Council is now exactly what timescales to set. Then it must be assessed on the basis of what an acute threat we actually perceive that Saddam Hussein is. I'd like a little piece of information about that. In terms of penalties, we have some instruments internationally. The question of penalties is addressed in the UN Charter. The Secretary of State says I'm listening badly. I also believe that the Foreign Minister has listened to me a little badly, because what I'm saying is that I don't want the sanction regime that we operate with now. I want a new system of sanctions, which takes into account what is a reality, that a number of UN member states have actually sabotaged the sanctions regime that we have, that oil has moved out, that the flow of money has not been controlled, etc. What I'm saying is that I think the starting point for getting a new kind of sanctions is better now, given what's the current situation, and it could be possible to get countries to follow up in a completely different way than what you've done before. I just hear that this is going to be defecated. I want to hear the reason why you can't even think in that direction. As far as the issue of the WTO is concerned, we definitely need a statement in the Storting, both in terms of agriculture and services, and we need it before 31 March, which is a central date in those negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1192	I know that I am now stretching the rules to the very extreme, but I did not note the last question to Kristin Halvorsen, and it will be completely wrong if I don't spend a few seconds on it. We follow the UN track so consistently that we do not take a position on what Norway might do until there is a decision in the Security Council. That means, of course, that if we get so far that there will be a decision that will lead to the use of military instruments, we will have to start thinking at that time. It is a consistent implementation of UN decisions, so I think Kristin Halvorsen should be reassured at that point. In terms of penalties, I noticed that Åslaug Haga used the expression that she wanted a "new penalty regime", and I got the impression that the word "wants" might be the more operational approach here. I wanted to know what Åslaug Haga had in mind, because we've tried different types of sanctions regimes. They have been subject to several successive changes and at almost every point have been subject to quite harsh criticism, that they are going too far at any time. That's why I don't think it would have been easy to build an understanding of a sanction regime that we haven't seen the outlines of. But if Åslaug Haga now has a proposal for a new sanction regime to put on the table, I'd like to listen to it. I think I'd like to see it before I can give it my support. As for the danger posed by Saddam Hussein, let me highlight the point made in UN Resolution 1441. So here we have a number of very relevant questions that have been asked, among other things. by the inspectors, as Saddam Hussein does not respond properly. That's what's at the very heart of the problem. So the question is, are you celebrating it under the carpet, or are you not doing it? That's the core of the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1201	The Labour Party is in agreement with the Government and Government representatives on the issue of Iraq, as the Government and Government representatives put it when they are in the Storing, and as it has emerged in the debate today. I am also very pleased that the Norwegian government did not participate in the chain letter operation among European government leaders. I don't need a reason from the Government for not participating, because the result was good anyway. When it comes to further work in the UN, the Government has confirmed that it will actively work to use peaceful means as long as this is meaningful. I am naturally in agreement with it, and several have been joined in this in Stortinget today. The military pressure is necessary, we have heard. Rightly, we see that SV has a proposal that they will replace the military press with a ‘threat’ about providing humanitarian aid, which I doubt will have the same effect. But on the other hand, we have those who say they want to use military power, whatever the United Nations says. We have those who say that one in any case should not use military power, we have been told that. I think it would be useful for the Foreign Minister to confirm that the Norwegian government has exactly the same timeline with those who say that they want to use military power without regard to what the United Nations does, which it has for those who guarantee that military power will not be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1208	It is such that those who say that military power should be used in any case, are essentially the commentators, who have expressed the opinions of the various actors. I fully agree with Mr Blankenborg that what we are doing is following Resolution 1441, namely that the use of military resources is the last resort, and our aim is to work to resolve this conflict without the use of military instruments. I want to say that it was also the approach that Minister of Foreign Affairs Powell had in the Security Council, where he made it clear that Resolution 1441 was not a scheme for war, but an opportunity to give Saddam Hussein a last chance to implement the UN decision. It stands as the attitude, and therefore it is also so that Saddam Hussein has the power to avoid this becoming a crisis in which military instruments are used. He can simply do what the United Nations has asked for. It is the most dangerous road to peace here, and it must all underline. It has not always been clear, and that is why I think it is very important that it is made clear now. I do not need to go into the debate on letters of formal notice. I just want to say the following: I think it is very important that we now work together on the European side, as we did in the EU on Monday, and that the members of the Security Council are working together. There is a great responsibility on the 15 that we have experience of from the time we were there, and we must be able to assume that the members fulfil the obligations they have on behalf of others, without entering into the public debates and the polemics that we have seen over the past few weeks. That is why I agree with the Prime Minister in his assessments and will add that I believe it has also been important on the European side to establish that it is not necessarily France and Germany that define Europe's interests, but that it is a much broader group that defines Europe's interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1218	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1221	In recent days and weeks, the challenges have been great both in the NATO Alliance and in the UN. The disagreement between the permanent members of the UN Security Council on the Iraq issue can be dramatic. The same can be true of the use of words between the United States and some European allies. The debate in NATO on defensive support for Turkey under Article IV of the Alliance was a test piece on the cohesion only a few weeks after the very successful NATO summit in Prague. Now, however, we should be careful to draw the disagreement and nightly discussions too far. The scandal is itself an expression that the same countries perceive both the United Nations and NATO as important forums for making their views felt. Both NATO and the UN are important to Norway. We have always followed the UN Security Council and used the World Organisation as a tool for development, conflict resolution and conflict prevention. And for us, it was also very important and very pleasing that NATO came to an agreement. NATO is the cornerstone of Norwegian security policy. Our security, our defence and our security depends on the development of NATO. As a country outside the EU, we have one security policy leg to stand on, namely the NATO alliance. Today, the world has two key areas of security policy: the EU and the United States. As you know, we are not members of the European Union, and of course not part of the United States. But we are increasingly dependent on transatlantic cooperation, precisely because we are not members of the EU. Of course, this can be problematic. It is in my opinion in Norway's interest that NATO maintains its status and role. The events of the last weeks have shown us that the world after 11 September 2001 is not the same as before. Just as November 9, 1989, when the Berlin Wall fell, changed the world, so did September 11. It has these days in common. Yet they are very different: November 9 became a symbol of future-optimism – September 11 became a symbol of the fear of the future9. November was the day when many rebelled against the few – September 11, the few terrorized the many9. November The United States of America – 11 September can contribute to the fragmentation of continents9. November is one of the most beautiful days in modern history – September 11th is one of the darkest chapters But even though the events are quite different, they show us that Norway is not a screened island. International development affects us; we need to participate in the international community. It is therefore in Norway's interest that NATO is strong, that NATO is functioning and that Norway has a role in NATO. Therefore, it is important that we prepare when another flanking country requests defensive support under Article IV. And I would like to stress: defensive NATO support for Turkey does not mean the acceptance of any war against Iraq. Moreover, in the case of the Iraq conflict, it has reasonably shaped much of today's debate. I just want to join the other speakers from the Workers' Party and stress that the weapons inspectors need more time and that the pressure against Saddam Hussein must be maintained. Then it is important to us that we follow the UN Security Council and political ends up on the resolutions that the UN Security Council had to come up with. For the sake of order – at the end of the day: whether Norway should contribute militarily, for which questions have been asked in this Chamber today, is a purely national decision to be taken, which is not a matter at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1258	WTO negotiations have a significant impact both on us here at home and not least on people in other parts of the world. I would like to comment on some elements. First about the GATS. Norway has significant export interests linked to service negotiations in the WTO. In 2001, the value of Norway’s exports of services was well above NOK 165 billion, of which approximately EUR 15 billion was. half signed up from ship transport services. The objective is to achieve better market access and greater predictability, so that Norwegian service exporters are not exposed to arbitrary and discrimination when applying for a job on the international market. From some quarters, criticism has been raised that Norway has also made demands and proposals towards developing countries. The right supports the fact that one also promotes demands and proposals towards poor countries, precisely to facilitate the inclusion of these countries in the bilateral negotiation process. This must be a proper approach when, at the same time, the requirements for developing countries differ from those for developing countries. It may do so by referring to the provisions of the GATS Agreement to take account of the interests of the poor countries in the negotiations and by inviting them to cooperate in the areas proposed. Then to market access for industrial products. There should be broad agreement on a high priority for this area of negotiation, such as: includes fish and fish products. There seems to be a great deal of excitement about implementing customs reductions for all industrial products. In these negotiations, too, a major challenge is how developing countries' interests can be protected by positive special treatment. Therefore, the Government has Right-wing support if it is committed to the commitment of each developing country in line with its level of economic development. This means that developing countries should be able to reduce customs duties and have longer implementation periods than industrialised countries. So something about agriculture. The Government has previously informed of the draft reduction obligations presented by the President of the WTO agricultural negotiations on 12 February. The draft involves cuts in customs duties from 60 to 45 pst. for central Norwegian agricultural products, cut in trade distorting aid between 50 and 60 p.p., and complete phasing out of export subsidies. The proposal represents a major deviation from Norwegian negotiating positions and will have a dramatic impact on current Norwegian agriculture. On the one hand, we want to support an approach that takes account of the demands of developing countries and, on the other hand, creates understanding and solutions to meet non-economic conditions such as housing, cultural landscapes and the environment, as well as the specific problems of farming under the geographical and climatic conditions we have in Norway. In Doha, the declaration on patent rights and public health was a contributing reason for the launch of the mandate for the negotiations. This means that in crisis situations patent rights can be set aside to enable a country to obtain reasonable medicines by producing them itself. It is now working to find a legislation that will enable the poorest countries, without their own production capacity, to obtain reasonable medicines. The fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis is central here. The government must be able to count on the broad support of the Storting to find a solution to these problems. There has been criticism of the WTO practice of excluding the public from bilateral negotiating requirements between the countries of the GATS. In the view of the Right, the Government has found a good balance between openness and closure of negotiating documents to the extent necessary to safeguard our negotiating interests. In the GATS negotiations, this has led to the publication of bilateral negotiating requirements, both what Norway has asked for from other countries, and what other countries have asked for from us. This week a conference was held in Geneva under the auspices of the IPU and the European Parliament on WTO negotiations. The Conference concluded that parliaments should significantly increase their involvement in WTO issues and in shaping the negotiating positions of each country. This will increase the transparency of negotiations in several countries, and Norway has, in my view, followed a satisfactory policy in this way. However, increasing international focus on the role and co-responsibility of parliaments in WTO matters will naturally lead us to consider our own practices as well. Parliament’s increased involvement in trade is an expression of the importance attached to these issues, not least as one of the main means of raising developing countries to a better life based on their own production and ability – not unlike the country’s development work, as Mr Jacobsen said earlier today, but in addition to and in synergy with traditional assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1282	I'm going to make some comments about some of the things that have been said earlier today, and I'm going to draw up some threads -- much in line with a point that the Foreign Minister was at in the last line change. We are simply in a very dramatic period, in which many people know an intense fear of war and experience an equally dramatic lack of leadership in the international community. In a situation where one needs leaders who see joint action over one's own and short-term national interests, a play that is largely the mint of the internal debate, internal opinion, and that helps to divide the international community. One needs to focus on using the common organisation that we have in the United Nations to resolve the conflict that we face. This applies regardless of whether the leadership belongs to a superpower, a regional superpower or other. Here again, we have heard representatives who have expressed how difficult such situations are. Such statements are grossly uninteresting, for one needs the will to be consistent and to act along one line, and that line should be to implement the decisions that we have made through the UN. We have a collective responsibility for the decisions that will be taken. We also have a collective responsibility to build up the strength of the organization, and then a clear and consistent line is needed in which one rejects all ultimatums for treatment in the UN body, and now in the Security Council in particular. Therefore, it is very important to clarify that the Norwegian position is a no to all ultimatums of the UN Security Council, that Norway follows a line based on the current situation when the cases are being dealt with, and that one uses the peaceful line as long as it is meaningful, but has, in accordance with previous decisions, the possible use of military means if necessary, and so, when decisions are taken, reconsidered the situation in relation to the Norwegian handling. That's what's the line, and as I think we're getting very clear here today, and that's also the line of the great plural. Whether we have heard that someone might consider the situation of unilateral action when that day comes, and that some have excluded all possible variants of military action, there is a large number of people who support the line that I have outlined here and that, as far as I see, is fully consistent with what the Government has also presented. It is important that this is a line that one presents clearly and consistently from the Government both outside and at home as well as from that part of the opposition that is agreed in this respect, so that no misunderstandings about what is Norway’s line emerge. What has been unfortunate is that in some European countries it has been an internal debate that has created a ambiguity as to what is actually the country's line, and it has led to a ambiguity as to what should be the line of the United Nations. Equally unfortunate, of course, is the fact that one from the United States and others has gone to the other extreme in language usage. But the point of this is that the Norwegian government actively contributed to, as the Foreign Minister was in charge, collecting solutions, and not joining in on actions that have only one purpose, and at least only one result, simply to show a split, when one needs to reverse it, that is, a concerted effort to use a common body, which is the United Nations. In short, the central government of the Workers' Party has agreed in two rounds, and that's what's the line to the plural here in the house. That is also what should be the clear signal we are sending out in relation to Norway's attitude to the situation in Iraq and Kuwait.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1291	I showed in my main speech in the debate a specific section of the opinion of the Council of the European Union on Monday, using the term ‘the unity and firmness of the international community’. It refers to the content of Resolution 1441. But what is even more important than this is that a unanimous Council in the European Union, including Germany and France, is saying without reservation that now there is one thing that is at stake: to preserve ‘unity and firmness’. The fact that one has finally stumbled to the recognition is perhaps the most joyful thing that has happened in this process over the past few weeks. Therefore, it is also gratifying that it seems that more and more people have stumbled to that recognition in this room as well. After today’s debate, it must be noted that in this case, the Central Party no longer disagrees with anyone other than SV – and possibly itself. It is a step forward that there is clear and unambiguous support for Resolution 1441, and that it is clear and unequivocally recognised that the military pressure has made the movement in Iraq at all. Kristin Halvorsen said in his main post that this had happened despite the fact that there are soldiers around Iraq. I think she's alone in this world. All the authorities that have worked on this in connection with the UN Security Council, General Secretary Kofi Annan and Hans Blix, the head of the weapons inspectors, have found without reservation that there is just the threat of military use that has made it possible to interfere at all with the situation in Iraq, and that, paradoxically, perhaps one can see an opportunity to avoid this military power being put into effect. I've heard a lot strange from SV in foreign debates in the five years I've been sitting in this room, but I've never heard so much strange as in Kristin Halvorsen's posts in today's meeting. Talking about the 1980s has been the focus of attention and drawing up long historical lines on what has been made mistakes in relations with Iraq and the region. It's of course interesting in terms of the history books, but it doesn't help us one step further in the situation we're up today. It has been tried to minimize this by pointing out that there are so many dictators in the world, and that is undeniably correct, but it cannot have avoided SV's attention that the entire UN Security Council has agreed to deploy the United Nations authority to carry out the disarmament of Saddam Hussein. And then it's not a particularly constructive contribution to political solutions that in this situation one later on as if the problem did not exist at all. It would have been understandable to criticize the Government if one had had a single advice to give the Government about which line to follow. I do not have the slightest faith in a new version of the penal regime, after ten years of working to improve and create a more accurate sanction regime, including the law. through significant Norwegian efforts. Then the situation is that the company Saddam and his sons have become richer every year that has gone. There are between 30 and 40 billion kroner in the food for oil programme, but the regime does not want to use them, because it wants to use the distress of the population as a means of exerting pressure on the world community. It must be possible that if you really have a whole alternative prescription to the solution of this, you'll soon come up with that prescription.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1300	The company 'holy brokers' has also increased its basic value in recent years – then the representative may see if he will take the time to find out who was the director there before. We are talking today about a foreign policy line: Is it consistent, is it long-term? And then I want to quote the Director of the Nobel Institute, Geir Lundestad, who wrote in the Evening Post: ‘However, it is important to stress that after the Gulf War’ – the first so – ‘Saddam has not represented any major threat to Iraq’s neighbours and not to the United States at all. He got what was deserved in that war, and has since remained largely calm." That's the real situation. Lundestad concludes that Saddam is a threat to own people, but not to the world. It is the threat assessment we have carried out in SV that he is not the threat that can legitimize and water down international law and can legitimize as much an attack as he actually plans. We can't go so far that we're going to abuse the UN in such a context. And Norway, which is a flanking country in NATO, which is a small country that relies on international law to function, is going to deal with this with the fact that one, in my opinion, is going to water down international law and maybe also use Article IV in a situation that is not there. We should be aware that Turkey has made territorial demands in Northern Iraq, Iraqi Kurdistan, one has at the same time got some money and is waiting for even more money from the United States before one approves that American troops will use three airbases and come in with thousands of soldiers, just to attack Iraq. At the same time, ask for consultations to discuss a possible attack from Iraq, the country that one actually has plans to attack. So as a small country, we're going to be very careful about the backward positioning of power that's going on in the Security Council, where Norway is going to be more likely to represent, among other things. the demonstrators, including: those who may have a greater willingness of peace than those who today are trying to use international law for something other than what he was meant to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1314	The debate on case No. So 1 is over. I think the president has overlooked the fact that Kristin Halvorsen has asked for the floor. I didn't mean to, even if it could work like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1319	I notice the President's enthusiasm, and I'll try to be brief. But I need some comments at the end of the debate. I think we are going into a very paradoxical situation if it is to be such that those who believe that war and military use of power are not to be threatened against dictators or in almost any conflict have no answer to what to do. And that's the kind of suggestion and self-righteousness that comes out in this room in the discussion about Iraq. SV has disagreed that you should start threatening war, and it's simply because if you want to start threatening war, you have to be prepared to go to war. We have thought that we have not been in a situation since 1998 and until now where the world is coming out better with a war in this area than without. And the Prime Minister can't prove or prove that you're in a precarious situation with Iraq. The Minister of Foreign Affairs cannot prove or substantiate that Iraq was near to attack its neighbouring countries, or that it was in a precarious situation. What may create the precarious situation is the threats that the United States has faced against Iraq and the build-up of strength that they have done in the areas. That's what can make the situation at the head. After the resolution that has now been adopted, Resolution 1441, and the fact that the weapons inspectors are in place, it is the role of the SV to say that these weapons inspectors must now have time to do the job that they can actually do and that they have done in the past with great efficiency. So they've been able to get rid of 95 pst in the past until 1998. of the weapons of mass destruction which Iraq had, and which, even former President Clinton has admitted, have been more effective than the actual acts of war against Iraq were after Iraq invaded Kuwait. I have to say that this is a rather special situation. Now, if you're on the verge of war, and I think that maybe we are, there's so much in the situation that those who are not willing to join and press the button are left unanswered in a situation where war threatens. Then we have a debate here, where the hints are pretty loose, where one makes a point that if one has not managed to send one's own sons or another's sons to the Gulf and go to war, one has no answer. I can't. There are so many dangerous dictators in the world, there are so many dangerous crises, and there are so many violations of human rights that we have to find another policy. And point number. 1 in that policy is not, as Inge Wohnung says, talking about anything else. Item No 1 in that policy is to think in the long term. It's to make sure you don't build new dictators that turn against our children in 10 years and in 20 years, which you didn't think about when you rusted up Saddam Hussein. Item No 2 is that you don't gamble with world peace and civil life, that you don't start new conflicts and force dictators into corners, which means you start using the weapons of mass destruction that might exist. Item No 3 is that we have to find an effective policy, because we've been playing down. Penalties have been defaulting. The pressure that's been going on has gone down. The threat of war also falls at the moment of war and there are hundreds of thousands of victims of it – and no solution to what is the alternative to Saddam Hussein in 10, 20, 30 years. This is what I think has been sadly absent in the debate, and then I don't think about the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister, but maybe a little bit of light wisdom I think has been haggling around my ears.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1336	Kristin Halvorsen says that we – apart from herself – act with ‘lightness’ and are drawn into a mass suggestion. It is possible that there is an argument - or it is a characteristic. I thought that, in particular, there might be an argument that goes a little further when it comes to forming a Norwegian policy to resolve a tragic situation about the Iraq issue. One of them is not a sudden situation. For ten years, it has been using weapons to keep Saddam Hussein away from Northern Iraq and southern Iraq. Nearly every day, air raids keep the situation under control. Then SV must also have a sense of this. Then one should have lifted the flight ban in the area and only let Saddam Hussein return. It's a very concrete matter, which one must have an opinion about. No one thought this was a good arrangement, but it was the one that came about. Sanctions have led to total austerity, wealth for Saddam Hussein and the criminalisation of the economy – and SV has been against the sanctions. If there is too much sanctions now, there is a change in policy. So far, the sanctions are what you tried to do. One had no other instrument. Now there is a truce with the power to get rid of the flight ban zone, find a solution to the Iraq question and get Saddam Hussein to meet the demands of the peace settlement after 1990-91. It is a point to end the three wars – the internal one, the one against Iraq and the one against Kuwait – that Saddam Hussein started. That's what this whole thing is all about. Then one must also have a grip on what has happened before, on the flight ban zone, on the use of armed power and on the sanctions, as they have come to light. One finally arrived at a unified solution in the United Nations. A truce with power usage and got the inspectors in. Now we have a chance to get a peaceful solution. Then I thought that one should focus on it, and not characterize with debaters as if they were hooked on a mass suggestion, or that they were just swirling around with ‘light vanities’. It would be an advantage if someone tried to look at the arguments instead of characterizing them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1347	No pay has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1351	I doubt neither the seriousness of Kristin Halvorsen nor her good intentions. But I must note that the advice she has to give to the UN Security Council in the situation we are in is this: Forget it! There's no danger on the road at all. This whole thing is reconstructed. It is such a distinct perception of reality that it must be allowed to ask whether a political party with as much excitement as SV has is unable to come up with any better advice. It is in itself a fair position that under no circumstances will one accept the use of military power. But then you have to be able to figure out what alternative power you're going to use, and not choose to stand like the ostrich and hope that once you take your head up again by the desert spirit, the danger will be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1358	Kristin Halvorsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1361	Just a brief comment. The acute situation that has arisen with regard to Iraq is due to the escalation of the United States around the crisis. If Inge's wages and friends had got what they wanted, there might have been war already. They are the ones who have tried to get another track, who have made room for the weapons inspectors to do a reasonable job. We've been against threatening war. Resolution 1441 is now in force. We must now ensure that the weapons inspectors have enough time to do a sensible job in Iraq, because they have done it before. The consequences of getting enough time to do a reasonable job are hundreds of thousands of times better than forcing a situation where American soldiers are used – with the gambling it will mean for this crisis. It's our job to tell about it now. And that's the job that the Norwegian government has to do from here on forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1368	I must confess that I am one of Inge's wages friends, and according to Kristin Halvorsen, there would have been war already if it had gone as Inge's wages and his friends had wanted. One cannot come from the fact that it has been a continuous line, both from the Government and from the government parties in the Storting, with broad support from the largest opposition parties, to follow the track through the UN. That is precisely to prevent the conflict from being resolved with military power. How to be able to suggest that it is the UN track that has been prominent here for more than six months is completely incomprehensible. I also think that Kristin Halvorsen's posts are becoming very cramping when she again tries to glorify how great it is with the inspectors and the inspection regime, but does not suggest that one would hardly have had any inspection regime at all if one had not put power behind them. This skillful bypass of how important it was to press Saddam to accept the inspectors is an untruth that is no more correct if it is repeated.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1377	Now no more have asked for the floor for case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2033]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1393	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2033]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1409	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2034]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1425	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2034]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1441	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1450	The size shall now consider a proposal to include the placing on the market of farmed cod under the raw fish law. Targeted efforts are being made to increase the production of breeding cod and to find answers to some of the conditions surrounding this type of farming, which have not yet been resolved. These are conditions that everyone believes will find their answers, and the expectations that breeding cod will become a significant fish resource here to land in a few years are so absolutely justified. It is therefore important to have a thoughtful solution to the way in which this fish is to be traded and how the control is to be carried out in relation to the wild caught fish. It is important that the placing on the market and the control are so arranged that it is not invited to fish fraud and quota jacks. In its work on the referral to this matter, the Committee has held consultations with several stakeholders in the fishing industry. These consultations show that there are considerable differences in the view of whether farmed cod should be included under the scope of the raw fish law. Therefore, it is important to make a thorough assessment of all aspects of the case and of all arguments for and against what is contained in this proposal. It will include, among others: Points out that many different actors are to participate in the rearing of cod, while a large proportion of delivered fish are expected to continue to come from traditional fisheries. The question is whether we should then have two different systems of sales and sales, and how this will affect the existing raw fish law. Many questions about the free movement of farmed cod will lead to a pressure against the law on raw fish – this law that has been a good tool for ensuring equal treatment for operators in the industry over many years. The free movement of farmed salmon is being used by some as evidence that it must also be appropriate to market the breeding stock freely. Others believe that this cannot be compared based on the differences in the amount of wild caught fish, and indicate that at least 60 pst. of the large amount of wild caught cod is collected within four to five months. Aspects relating to control have been central to the hearings and to the Committee's involvement. Here it has been argued that it is difficult to control whether the fish sold is wildly caught or from farming. This is perceived by some as a problem in relation to the possibilities of fish fraud and quota jacks. Others believe that there is no problem in using the veterinary provisions in relation to control of the mixture of wild caught and farmed fish. Consumers' right to know whether they buy farmed or wild caught fish has also been pointed out, and a good labelling system has been established to ensure this. Because there are so many different considerations to take into account, the Government will need to make a thorough and comprehensive assessment of all aspects of the future turnover of breeding cattle and to report back to the Storting in an appropriate form. The Committee is divided into this view, and I believe that the other parties will argue for their respective views. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1469	Let me just start by saying that we are opposed to the motion for a resolution I and that is because the proposal is annexed to the protocol, simply because we do not understand the purpose of this whole proposal. It contributes to the raising of considerable doubts among operators in the farming industry, in particular among entrepreneurs engaged in innovation work in the field of cod farming. Among those engaged in research and development, and also among investors, this proposal creates considerable uncertainty as to where this case can be addressed. In my view, this proposal is also a little-needed proposal. I do not ignore the fact that Norway’s raw fish teams think this is an excellent proposal, but in the case of farmed fish, the Raw Fish Act has until 1991 covered farmed fish – when we talk about rearing salmon and trout. However, as is well known, until the 1991 FOS bankruptcy, the sale of fish farms gave a unilateral right to set the minimum price at first hand. There were many explanations why things went wrong then, among other things. with reference to the term ‘overproduction’. Norwegian salmon industry, which has become the best in the world and which is likely to have the best market knowledge – compared with all other Norwegian exports, few are able to compete in the same way as Norwegian farming industry in terms of market knowledge and market contact – today produces five times more than in the case of bankruptcy in 1991. I don't think anyone with his hand on the heart can say that today's first-hand sale of wild caught fish works optimally, if it were to be the example of follow-up. Today there is a strong need for Norwegian cod farming to succeed. Lower quotas on wild cod and a high demand in the market mean that we must allow this industry to develop naturally. This industry can be a good addition to wild caught cod. It is capable of creating new markets, which can also be a good economic complement to wild cod. If the actors operating within this industry are to succeed, they must not be hindered by introducing unnecessary laws and regulations. We know that in terms of this industry, in line with the salmon industry, competitors abroad will show up. The Breeding Act currently complies with the requirements for monitoring and reporting required by the proposal. The Fisheries Directorate will at all times have an overview of the number of juveniles placed in the sea, standing biomass, slaughtered quantities, etc. But that doesn't mean that we, which of course lies in the intentions of the proposal, should not work to improve everything that is about control and has to do with controlling the breeding of cod. Here the department does a thorough job. I also believe that what goes on predictability in terms of deliveries in an international market must be taken with the greatest seriousness. This has been understood by the Norwegian farming industry. The fact that you do not have the same opportunities for wild caught fish probably has something to do with the problems in the fishing industry as such. Today’s sales organisation with regard to wild caught fish is very little adapted to today’s requirements and needs for market and sales organisation. Therefore, it is important that we do not create uncertainties in these vital issues in relation to an industry that can really be a new economic locomotive along the coast. Finally, I would like to say in the light of recent years' extensive complaints about fraud and the circumvention of quotas and regulatory provisions: in that part of the industry that is still subject to the raw fish law and the sale monopolies, there are questions about the system's effectiveness in terms of control. Likely, problems have never been bigger in this area than they have been in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1486	Let me immediately record the proposal from the Progress Party, which is listed on page 2 of this setting. Let me also introductoryly say that in the Progress Party we are in principle opponents of the raw fish law and think that it should be liberalised even more than what has been done so far. I should not be surprised to see that we are well satisfied with the liberalisation that has taken place in the last few years in the area of raw fish law and that what has happened is a step in the right direction. However, from then on to again extending the raw fish law to the marketing of farmed cod is contrary to our principle. That is why we are tabling the proposal that this document No. The 8-proposal is being rejected. I see no reason why we should not follow the same principle for the marketing of farmed cod that we have for the marketing of other farmed fish. There should be a level playing field. It should not be so one should twist on this. I believe that by doing this, a breeder will also be strengthened. It'll be a good supplement. It will provide stable deliveries, and that means that this industry too can get a good price. I think that's important, because one is right now at a research stage, which means that it's important that the growers get a good economy in their facilities, a good economy in their test projects, so that they can further develop. Therefore, it is important that one can sell that cod at a time when there is no wildly caught cod. In my opinion, this also offers great opportunities for wild caught cod, because just as it does for agriculture, there will be demands for pure, fine fish without medication, etc. With good marketing, the wild caught cod could be an attractive supplement to farmed cod – I believe it may be large – which means that wild caught cod will actually increase in price and could become interesting for markets outside Norway, as this fish has grazed far north of the sea in water without pollution, and has food without drugs. I hope that one in the case of cod rearing can avoid medication. We don't know, because this is at the beginning. Therefore, it is important that we try to see this under the legislation attached to the breeding law. If we now go to this step and put this under the raw fish law, something that the industry itself doesn't want, we'll get politicians run by a little bit of an industry, and that'll be a shame. This will damage the industry, and it will not help to strengthen the potential of the Norwegian farming industry to find a new species that can contribute to the future of the growing industry that we all want this to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1499	The representative of Solholm has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1502	Growing of cod can, if we settle well, become an important supplement to wild caught fish. But I think we're all going to have in the back of the mind that there's a long way to go until this becomes an industry that has a great deal of profitability, and that has a large quantity. We're going to have that in our head, and we're going to have some ice in our stomach. There is also the background to the fact that the proposers have had to come forward with a proposal that could give rise to a little debate. Placing on the market of a breeder presents us with two main challenges. It gives us challenges in relation to the market, and it gives us challenges in relation to resource management. I believe that there is a monthly risk that larger quantities of farmed cod could be sold outside organised trading channels and can quickly reduce the value of wild caught cod. I'm not sure the market can tolerate that e.g. may emanate large quantities of farmed cod, in the short term, in the interest of some economic operators. I therefore believe that we need a coordinated market work in relation to the cod farming. When it comes to administration, many people have pointed to the challenge of getting three categories of cod in the future. We're going to sell wild-caught cod, we're going to sell wild-caught cod, and we're going to sell artificially clucked cod. These three categories are to be placed on the same market. Based on the control aspect, of which one in this room has been very busy, and which there has been a great deal of public debate over the last few years, it is obvious that registering the flow of a quota-covered fish species for fattening in farms will lead to major challenges. That is precisely why we have put forward this proposal. For the purpose of resource control, it is important to have a credible control system. I think that the Raw Fish Act is an available device that will work in relation to this. There are some who have claimed that the experience with farmed salmon means that the turnover of farmed cod is not to be subject to the raw fish law. But here the logic fails at a significant point, and that's that Norway had a negligible turnover of wild caught salmon at the time when a salmon farm started in Norway. And the contrast to wild caught cod, which much of the coast still depends entirely on, is quite great. That's why I think we have to separate here, look at the realities and not just look at the slight rhetoric in relation to the fact that it didn't work with the salmon, so why should it work with the cod? We are forced to take some care of the industry that is still dependent on wildly caught cod. I am afraid that the free movement of farmed cod will lead to a pressure on the traditional fishing industry. I am aware that this turbulence is also shared by the ministry, and therefore, of course, I am pleased that the Right and Christian People's Party write in their note that the ministry has a keen eye on this, and that one will consider a adaptation to what is required to ensure control of the placing on the market, etc. When the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party write in their note that the Ministry will also "look at the relationship with the rest of the central law", I cannot see it as anything but a promise that this is something that the Storting will be allowed to decide on on a later occasion. I therefore do not understand the problem of voting for I in the vote, because it is indirectly the promise given by the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. I believe that the person who is particularly interested and who has recorded the debate that has been in the fishing press when it comes to the committee's handling of this matter is likely to be a little confused. The government's spokespersons in the committee have come up with quite contradictory statements. I have registered that the representative Olaf Gedrem of the Christian People's Party has said to the «Fisker» that he sees it as natural that the Government will return to the Storingen with the matter in its own form when it is distributed, and that it is open to different solutions, as it leads from the committee. I just have to say that I think it is as natural as Olaf Gédrem that this matter comes back to the Stortinget in its own form, and rather the representative Kristiansen will have room to interpret the comitology as he needs. I don't think it's any secret that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have quite conflicting attitudes to the Raw Fish Act. I just have to say that I am very satisfied with the compromise contained in the Sem Declaration, which is also in the committee position today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1519	Developments in aquaculture and farming create great opportunities for value creation and employment, not least in rural areas. The marine sector is considered to be one of the areas where Norway has the highest potential for growth, and therefore this industry is the one that can make the greatest contribution when oil revenues are reduced in the future. We have to take care of and organise this industry and manage the resources well. Document No 8:145, which deals with whether the turnover of farmed cod is to be included under the Raw Fish Act, shows some of the dilemmas facing us in the work on this crop industry. These are clear to the Ministry, and therefore a monitoring work is being carried out, in which the fisheries management will work closely with the representatives of the scientists, the aquaculture industry, industry and fishermen in order to draw the most realistic picture of a future with a great deal of breeding stork. It is important that the fisheries management assesses the adaptations required to ensure control of the placing on the market and the importance of preventing the mixing of fish. The work already in progress in the ministry is therefore the reason why we felt it necessary to attach the document to the protocol. Where is the Christian People’s Party? The Christian People's Party wishes to underline the importance of the place of the Raw Fish Act in relation to the management of fisheries resources. The Raw Fish Act is an important foundation for the whole of the fisheries policy. At the same time, we see the need for adjustments that ensure the possibility to conclude binding, long-term delivery agreements between the buyer and the seller. On the part of the Christian People's Party, it would not be appropriate to weaken the Raw Fish Act. What will the breeding of cod mean for the districts? According to future analyses of breeding cattle, it is clear that cod farming has enormous potential in Norway. Cod farming can therefore become the major district industry, and this is important for the Christian People's Party. Another important question is how such a large quantity of farmed stork as we are now talking about will affect the situation of fishermen and for wildly caught cod at all. We need to know more about how greater quantities of farmed cod will affect the catch and movement of wild cod. We need to know more about how the fishing line will look at and tackle this challenge. It is a fine balance to find the optimal combination of farmed fish that can complement wild caught fish, thus providing a smooth supply of raw material. What about control and turnover? Control regimes, such as the Breeding Act and the Raw Fish Act, are of great importance. The documentation of processes through which the fish passes from it to the edge of the market until it is placed on the consumer's table will be intensified. The problem of traceability becomes significant. Consumers want to know more, whether the cod is wildly caught, or whether it comes from farming. If farmed cod can be combined with the supply of wild cod, we could have a stable and high quality of the deliveries. In this way, it would be possible for herdsmen to strengthen the marketing of cod and supply the markets during the periods during which fisheries cannot do so. A more streamlined supply of raw materials could also improve the economy of fish recipients and processing establishments, while at the same time strengthening local communities with new jobs. This is also good district policy. Stable framework conditions are of great importance for this industry. We need to focus on the same framework conditions as our competitors, so that the Norwegian cod farming industry does not come out worse than these. Here it is important to build up around the Raw Fish Act and the Breeding Act. The Christian People's Party sees a clear need to assess in depth the problem of the marketing of farmed cod in relation to the Raw Fish Act and the Breeding Act. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the work being carried out in the ministry and expects the Council of State to take account of the various issues to be addressed by the Ministry in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1545	The objective of this Document No. The 8-proposal was to make sure that Stortinget thought through a problem that was going to happen sooner or later. The issue is not acute right now, but it may be of great importance for coastal workplaces, and also for the market in which we are actually going to sell our fishery products. I have recorded the different attitudes that have come, and I am pleased that one of the departments says that there is an opening here to be able to use the Raw Fish Act, and that one is willing to look at the question in the future. Like the representative Elvik, I expect that this will happen in such a way that the Storting will also have the opportunity to discuss these issues in the future. Otherwise, I have to say that I think the representative of the Christian People's Party made a very reasonable impression instead of exactly those aspects of the question. She had an opinion about the road further which I distribute in full. I think one should be aware of the issues that will arise with regard to cod farming, and the expectations over a 15 to 20 year period with regard to the volume in which one can rise. I agree that per year. Today there may be talk of the breeding stork filling niches and perhaps creating a basis for a steady market production over the year. However, it is clear that at a certain time – if development is as good as many research environments think it can be – this will be a question of how to manage a single market, as well as of how to manage a resource management related to both wild cod and cod farming. These will be issues that it is important for us to be aware of all the way around. I also think it is important to be told that the issue of the role of the breeding stock and the farming industry in relation to cod cannot be compared to the situation of the salmon industry. In the salmon industry, and to the extent that also in the production of wild caught salmon, we have a very small market, and it is clear that the issue of farmed cod in relation to wild caught cod is quite another. There's thousands of jobs there, and there's a great deal of settlements along the coast. Then we have to think about the issues in terms of both market and resource management in a different way. The proposers have seen this primarily in relation to the issue of resource management and control, but I should not underestimate that for my part this is also a question of being able to deal with a single market, and of dealing with a single market in a sensible way. In the case of Norwegian natural resources, one natural resource must not compete with the other natural resource on the same market. There is a danger if you don't have a certain controlled turnover, and if you don't also have a certain parallelity with the legislation for the different parts of the industry, and then I think about what is the wildly caught cod, and what is the farmed cod. It's true, as we have also mentioned here, that we can face three categories of cod in the years to come: the wildly caught cod, the wildly caught but bred as a brood, and the fully bred. I have noticed that the right-hand speakers here are talking about an unnecessary code to which you put up, and questions about introducing unnecessary laws and regulations. Then I would like to remind you that this is actually the legislation we are discussing, which is the basis for the entire success story that Norwegian fisheries management is. I think it's important to underline that. In addition to the drifting souls along the Norwegian coast who have spent time and energy on fishing, it is also the law we have actually laid down as a framework around the fishing industry, which has helped us to become as successful a fishing nation as Norway is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-20.ana.ud1251e1562	The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is up. The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
