ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e37	Honourable co-representatives! The former depositors Roald Åsmund Bye, Ola H. Kveli and Olai Ingemar Eikeland have died. It was with sadness that we received the notice that former P.A. Roald Bye is dead, barely 75 years old. Roald Bye was born on 7 November 1928 in Malvik, South Trondelag. Both the living political environment in Hommelvik and the fact that he was the grandson of former Prime Minister Johan Nygaardsvold inspired him to early political commitment and work. Roald Bye was very active both in municipal policy, in party political work and as a cultural intermediary. Roald Bye came early to work here at Stortinget. As a 26-year-old in 1961, he met for long periods as an alternate for the Workers' Party. It was therefore an experienced politician who in 1969 was elected as permanent representative of the South-Trundellag County. Roald Bye was concerned with social policy issues and had a strong social commitment throughout his life. In all three of his periods at Stortinget, he was a member of the Social Committee. He was very concerned about improving the living conditions of most people, and it was his work in the social committee characterized. He was deeply concerned about matters relating to child welfare, military retirement, daily allowance and sick pay and had budgetary responsibilities for these matters. In his work here at Stortinget he was also among others. the rapporteur for major social security matters, such as the reduction of the retirement age from 70 to 67 years, the sick pay reform, which paid full wages under sickness, and the establishment of the Equal Opportunities Council. He also worked actively to develop a good health service for all children in Norway. When Roald Bye left the Stortinget in 1981, he was glad to come home to Hommelvik – to the Chairman's job in the field of measures, to continue his work in the Prefecture and to write the building book. He was also a driving force throughout his life as a scriptwriter and director of the local revy in Hommelvik. Roald Bye was a moody and very accessible person. He had a burning commitment and was a warm champion of the weakest in society. It was marked by his work, both in national policy and at the local level. Former P.Ola H. Kveli died in his home on 22 April, the day before he should have reached the age of 82. He was the great representative of the Left and North Trondelag for two periods, from 1965 to 1973. In the last year, he joined the New People's Party. Later he was the group secretary for the party's representative Ole Myrvoll. Later he came back to his old party. In other posts, too, Kveli made a major social effort, including: as rapporteur of the municipality of Lierne for 14 years, a long-standing representative of the State Conservation Council and the county of Nord-Trøndelag for 12 years – until retirement. His efforts are crowned with the HM King's medal of merit in gold. Kveli was active for the last time – several miles of skiing the day before he died surprisingly. The week before, he met in a selection for rolling the area part of the municipal plan for the Lierne. He was described by everyone as a very pleasant person, often with a lut smile, great kindness and a good comment. Kveli started his professional career as a forest worker and as a forest collector for the Swedish company Kramfors. As a 30-year-old in 1951, he became known to the public when, as a list top for the Left, he walked straight into the rapporteur's chair in the home built Lierne. He was before this educated at Maer Agricultural School. He became a socialist of format, among others. in matters of school development and power supply. During the period 1961-1969, Kveli was a substitute for Stortinget, and moved in when Bjarne Lyngstad became Minister of Agriculture from 1965. In 1969, Kveli himself topped the Left's list in the Nord-Trøndelag. He was elected a number of investigators in the area of municipal policy, and was not afraid to go new ways. It alerted him when he got his municipality to put the construction of a road to the company – long before it became a normal idea. He was a strong spokesman for District Norway. Ola H. Kveli was not the great speaker or agitator. His form was the calm and objective one. When he took the word, it was thoughtful, and it was listened. He did not like a loud fight, and was even diplomatic and solution-oriented. Kveli lost his dear wife, Gudrun, a few years ago. Together they had three children, and he had the family with him in the Easter – at home in Kvelia. On the second Easter day he went peacefully and quietly away. Former representative of the Central Party of Olai Ingemar Eikeland has died, 87 years old. Eikeland was born in Vennesla. When he was 18 years old, he traveled to Hillerød in Denmark to study agriculture, and he took over the cemetery when he returned. Eikeland was involved in political work early. He was elected to the City Council of Vennesla at the age of 32, and this was the beginning of over 30 years of participation in various political positions. Eikeland represented the Centerpartiet on Stortinget from 1961 to 1965, and was the alternate period before. At Stortinget he was a member of the Agriculture Committee, and the development of agriculture occupied Eikeland throughout his life. He made a very significant effort for the League of Bonds, among others. as leader of the West Agder County for nearly 30 years. He was appointed an honorary member of the Norwegian Bondelag in 1983. Eikeland had a lot of interests. He made extensive work for the Evangelical Lutheran Friar. The culture was also very important for Oakland, and he liked to perform with song and poetry. Oakland had a large social exposure, and he cared for people he met. He was optimistic, cooperative, and with a brilliant mood, which made him very many friends. We remember Roald Åsmund Bye, Ola H. Kveli and Olai Ingemar Eikeland with deep respect and gratitude and shines peace over their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e97	The representative, André Kukkestad, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the delegation of the European Parliament to the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee, signed by the chairperson of the delegation, Mr Morten Høglund, on the leave of the representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Julie Christiansen, Morten Höglund and Ivar Østberg on 20 and 21 May to attend meetings of the EEA Parliamentary Committee in Ålesund from the representative of Haakon Blankenborg on leave from 20 May to 22 May to attend meetings of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Sarajevo On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Sverre Myrli, Mette Korsrud and Harald Espelund For Uppland County: Reidun GravdahlFor Troms County: Leif Christian Johansen3. Mette Korsrud and Leif Christian Johansen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for representatives Julie Christiansen and Ivar Østberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e156	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Council on Tuesday 20 May – and will consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e161	I suggest Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e166	Mr. Finn Martin Vallersnes is proposed as President-in-Office of the Council. – Other proposals are not available, and Finn Martin Vallersnes is considered unanimously elected president of Tuesday 20 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e180	Travel operators are obliged to join the Travel Guarantee Fund. The proposal we are considering today concerns the composition of the board of directors of the fund. The current Governing Board consists of three members: one representative of the authorities in charge of the Management Board, one representative of consumers and one representative of the industry itself. The representative of the industry is appointed by the Norwegian Travel Association. The proposers Hedstrøm and Solholm want to replace the industry’s own representative with a person who is not himself an operator in the industry, for example. A lawyer. However, this person shall be chosen by the same forum, the Norwegian Travel Industry Association. The reason for such a change is that today's regime may be unfortunate in that the industry representative in the board of directors can gain insight into their competitors' plans, budgets and turnover. A majority of the Committee, all other than the representatives of the Progressive Party, considers that such an amendment as has been proposed is not appropriate. The majority agree that it is important that the composition and functioning of the Board of Directors does not contribute to some actors benefiting from the governance of the Fund, but does not see the need for this change. The main function of the Fund is to provide consumers with the protection they require. We therefore believe it is important in this case to look at the experience gained since the establishment in 1982. We are aware that the model in Norway is different from that in Norway, for example. Sweden and Denmark. The Norwegian model differs positively from our neighbouring country by the fact that the Travel Guarantee Fund in Norway has acted both faster and more effectively than the schemes in our neighbouring country. It has proved to be cost-effective for both consumers and the industry itself. Our conclusion is that today's system has proved to work well and consumer friendly. We also stress that there is no general dissatisfaction with today's system in the industry. We believe that industry representation is important in the context of unprofessional and economically weak actors. However, we believe that the issues raised by the proposers with regard to the composition of the board are relevant, but believe that experience so far shows that this has not been a problem. On this basis, the majority consider it unwise to change the composition of the board of the Travel Guarantee Fund. Today's composition with a representative of the authorities, consumers and industry themselves does not give a group majority of the board of directors. The majority indicates that the scheme has worked well so far, and cannot see any reason per year. today to change the composition of the Management Board. I refer to the Committee's comments and proposals for decisions to annex the proposal to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e206	It may not be this case that takes place most interest today. It's at least very empty in the press room. There must be something exciting going on today. There is no disagreement that the board of the Travel Guarantee Fund is doing a good job and has a quick procedure in relation to other countries, but the Progress Party's proposal in this case is that we consider it very unfortunate that a managing director of one of the largest travel operators is on the board of the fund. He/she thus has access to the budgets, plans and turnover of his/her competitors and, even if he/she has a duty of professional secrecy, there is a clear possibility of making arrangements that benefit from his/her own activities. We have to be aware that this is a very tough business. And even if you have respect for the obligation of professional secrecy in the first place, in some cases you have to be able to ask a question. We therefore want to change the rules governing the composition of the board of the Travel Guarantee Fund, so that the professionally appointed member is independent of the competing companies in the industry. I do not fully understand that the Committee can agree with comments such as: that it is important that the composition and functioning of the board of directors do not contribute to some actors taking advantage of the board of directors of the fund, but nevertheless say no to our proposal. With this, I will address our proposal, which is also presented in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e219	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. The President will assume that it is a reasonable assumption the representative made when he suggested that it is not this matter that exerts magnetic attraction on all the media people present in the house today. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2862]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e243	We have recently had many tragic deaths where weapons have been used by the perpetrators. Tragic deaths occur daily in Norway in many different ways, but luckily daily diets are not killed in Norway. Killer weapons can be so often. Most of them are everyday objects that are found all over the community around us. In the case of weapons, we have chosen to regulate both who can buy and own a weapon, what it should be used for, and how to keep weapons and ammunition. We have also decided to register the arms owners. Here, as in many other areas of our society, it is also important to continue good attitudes and rules on weaponry, simply. The Minister of Justice informed the Stortinget this winter that there is about one. 1.5 million guns in Norway, while we are only 4.5 million people. Most of these weapons are, in fact, hunting weapons and are owned by hunters who have a legitimate reason to own and use weapons. We should all respect the civil tradition of hunting in Norway. I will first point out that with this interpellation I will not hunt or hunt as a hobby to life, as I also know that hunters have great respect for weapons in general, and that they largely keep and handle their weapons with the care required. Hunters are also very often concerned about teaching others to treat weapons with caution. They also take their ordered hunting tests annually, so that they are fit to use their weapons on the annual hunting trips. Nor have hunters in general used weapons to hurt or kill people in most of the tragic incidents we have seen with firearms in recent times. Unfortunately, we know that environments other than hunters also have weapons in Norway. More and more criminal environments have large quantities of weapons of varying types and calibre. Those of us who have been allowed to take a look at the detention rooms in some of the police districts we have seen many variants. These environments need to be handled in various good, police-disciplinary ways. They're a challenge for the police, perhaps especially in the larger cities, where most of it is less transparent than it is in smaller places. The Arms Act allows the police to carry out pre-announced checks at private arms owners. On written questions from me about how many such checks have been carried out since this home came into force in the police districts, I was informed that the Police Directorate had no statistics on how often or how many such checks had been carried out. But they had been informed after a survey that at least four police districts had not carried out such checks, while the Oslo police district had carried out ten checks last year and planned several more this year. Does the Minister of Justice think it would be useful to obtain such statistics in the future? We have now finally got the central weapons register in place from 1 January 2003. The Minister of Justice has informed in writing that the local weapons registers will be included in the central weapons register during the spring. Now spring is here, and I hope the Minister of Justice can tell us how far this work has now come. Arm owners who have become mentally unbalanced for one or more reasons have been shown to be able to target their immediate family or close friends. The question that many people have then asked is: Does anyone have to understand that this person has had mental problems and tried to provide some kind of treatment for the condition? It's close to thinking that the health care system has been inside the picture somehow. But many health care actors have signed a taushet promise that applies to everything they know about all their patients. It is an obligation imposed on them in the form of law. This winter, the Ministry of Justice has sent out a circular asking for better cooperation between the health services and the police in matters where well-known gun owners are mentally unbalanced. But health workers have to deal with their obligation of professional secrecy. Does the Minister of Justice think that a circular is enough to solve health workers from his taushet vow and professional secrecy, or should this desirable cooperation be regulated in the form of law in the future? When a person who owns one or more weapons, is either mentally unbalanced or is in the habit of being in the habit of being mad and unable to think clearly, and he has his or her weapons readily available, I think the threshold for using weapons is too low. If the weapons or vital weapon parts were securely locked down, he would have to find the key and unlock the cabinet before he could use the weapon. Then it would take a little longer before the weapon could be used, and I would think that these minutes would be gold worth as a delay, and that it might not happen. It could give the gun owner time to think about one more time, and maybe the reworked mind would cool down a little bit. It might also give the victims the time they needed to get away from the dangerous situation they were in. By the fact that a weapon or a vital weapon part is not locked in, an invasion will also lead to weapons being put in the hands of unsuitable persons. If it had been properly locked down, an invasion would not have the same effect, then no one would get hold of the weapon. The legislation in force provides an opportunity for fit persons to own and keep weapons after they have been authorised by the police. Section 27a of the Arms Act states that firearms or a vital weapon part, as well as ammunition, must be stored securely locked down. However, in the regulations made subsequently by the Ministry, Part VI B2(b): If the number of rifles or hails exceeds four registered weapons in the household, the weapons shall be stored in FG-approved weapons. As a legislator, I thought that regardless of whether there was one weapon or several weapons in the household, the weapon or a vital part of the weapon should be kept locked in an approved weapon cabinet. Why does the prescription say anything other than what I perceive we wanted by the legislator? In reply to a written question about this, I read among other things. that the design of the new regulations selected a graduated system depending on the type of weapon and the number based on a purely risk assessment. But I am familiar with one weapon enough to kill with it, and then I have no understanding that you must have four weapons before they are to be properly locked down in a weaponry. To me, it really seems that private economic considerations have been taken into account, that the weapon itself is expensive, and that imposing weapons is also very expensive for just one or two weapons. If there are such reasons for the choice of four weapons, I will be told that at least I disagree very much in such a way of thinking about weapons. I have also had contact with several hunters who say that the weapon, regardless of its number, should be locked down for security reasons. We know that other hobbies too can be expensive, and being a hunter or having weapons that hobby is expensive, but then you should also take the last piece of safety, even if it can be expensive. Does the Minister of Justice think that the regulations are comprehensive and good enough to achieve the legislator's intention with the law? And is there any other thing that the Minister of Justice has looked at after what we have now experienced with firearms, which we should do differently in the form of law?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e279	In Ot.prp. No 19 for 1997-98 – formerly Ot.prp. No 74 for 1996-97 was promoted again under the third paragraph of Section 33 of Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure – the government then proposed a new section 27(a) of the Arms Act requiring firearms, etc. shall ‘storage securely locked’. The proposal was adopted by the Stortinget. There was never any doubt that the provision would apply to all firearms. The requirement for proper locking was not new, as the corresponding requirements were previously included in the Arms Regulation. The proposal to place the provision in the law was among other things. justified by the fact that the central provisions for storage should be set out in the law itself. At the same time, a more transparent regulatory framework was sought. Detailed storage requirements, including requirements for locking systems, were provided for in the Regulation. The same applies to ‘if applicable, different requirements depending on the type and/or number of weapons’ – Ot.prp. No 74, page 23. The motives for the legislative proposal, page 30, further state that the requirements for storage ‘must be laid down in a regulation. Such rules would be of a more technical nature and would therefore be appropriate for regulatory regulation. In addition, the requirements for safe storage must be graduated in relation to the types of weapons, the number of weapons, etc.»; A group of Justice Ministers agreed to the proposal. Below are pronunciations: ‘The Committee has noted with satisfaction that the proposition is not in favour of the closure of the main part, vital part and ammunition separately and also agrees that these provisions are included in the arms law itself. The Committee therefore advocates that the weapon or one vital part, as well as ammunition, be locked down and that approved weapons and so on. is considered as a secure and lawful storage.» In my opinion, the Committee's comment cannot be read as if all weapons had to be stored in weapons, but that such storage is fully satisfactory where it is not appropriate to split the weapon into several parts and where the vital part is kept locked down. In line with these assumptions, the new Arms Regulation established a graduated storage requirements system. From the exit requirement of the law that the firearms “must be securely locked down” this is reinforced in the regulation for the requirements of the FG-approved safety cabinet when the storage applies to more than four rifles/hagles. For the storage of pistol, revolver or fully or semi-automatic weapon, requirements shall apply to the FG-approved first-arm safe. For the storage of more than 25 weapons, which may be applicable to arms dealers and weapons collectors, additional requirements apply to FG-approved burglar alarm systems with day-to-day transmission to the alarm station, etc. When the new storage requirements came into force, the demand for FG-approved weapons became so large that it had to be opened up until dealers and manufacturers could comply with all orders. I allow myself to take this as an expression that there was a loyal outrage about the new demands of the law-abiding arms owners. I would otherwise like to state that, on my part, there has been considerable emphasis on preventing the use of firearms or ports in criminal environments. However, this must be done with reasonable respect for the many law-abiding people who find pleasure in the use of firearms for hunting, sport and other recreation. I have therefore also emphasised close cooperation with the many non-governmental organisations that represent important social networks for law-abiding arms owners. In this context, the development of open and trusting cooperation between the authorities and the responsible arms organisations is also seen as a useful tool in the fight against the illicit use of firearms. Taking into account the implementation of a national weapon name path in the current year, this cooperation will also constitute an important pillar of support. The representative has quoted breast-feeding correctly. As far as I've been informed, the first phase of what she's asking for, how things will come into place, will have happened by the end of June. In my opinion, the weapons history period planned for the coming autumn, together with the central registration of all firearms now in operation, is important measures to improve the control of firearms and to achieve an uncontrolled spread of weapons to criminal pre-federal environments. However, this requires that we keep focussing and pressurise. In this context, I am also aware of the need to evaluate the measures in order to see whether the intended results are achieved. Here, as well as in relation to other regulatory regulations, I am open to changes if experience so requires. For the sake of coherence, at the end of the day, I would like to draw attention to the fact that several of the tragic deaths of the representative Rui are obviously aimed at in the interpellation, the use of military weapons. These fall outside the regulation of the Arms Act and thus outside of my primary responsibility. But, as you know, this has been followed up by the acquisition of so-called "chamber locks" for home weapons, which have had a broad and strong connection in Stortinget. With regard to other questions raised by the representative, I agree that in an evaluation I will be concerned with how to carry out the verification. It goes without saying that you have to know how this happens, so that having such an overview, I think you'll also be able to show that you're keeping the law in law and using it. On the first question of knowing about controls, that there is important information, there is an opinion I share with the representative. The representative was also concerned about the relationship with the health authorities. I have stressed that this should be a good cooperation relationship. I myself, subject to the fact that I am not a lawyer enough in this area, understand the care provisions of health law so that you have an independent warning task when you see people who can be unstable. I still want to work with the health authorities to see if the provisions are good enough, so that we can avoid tragic situations. Some of the debate has been mainly related to the use of firearms and their prevention. Here we also know that there are names in the different municipalities that are going to look at these questions. I've previously mentioned, and will continue to address, with the Minister of Defense how this system works. It's part of the natural whole. Another thing I want to mention is that I know that some police districts practice a system that is such that if someone gets caught in a state of emergency, and you record that he is a gun owner, it becomes a warning. Then there is fast justice where the weapon is drawn. I myself think that such a handling in relation to the weapons legislation and the breach of other legal provisions is a correct marking. These are also aspects I would like to take with me in relation to the practice of legislation and in order to keep culture in place. However, let me stress this: there are many firearms in Norway. We probably have the greatest density of private firearms in the Western world after the United States, along with Finland. But there is a difference between the weapons cultures in the countries. The Norwegian weapon culture has been based on the fact that this is part of a hunting tradition, a leisure tradition, a shooting, shooting and sporting tradition, where we have had exceptionally strong social mechanisms through voluntary organisations to control these weapons. This is a control system that I've met through social reality, not only in District Norway, but also in large cities, among others. in this city. It was just a fear that, on the outside of these environments, this tradition no longer existed, and that there could be a risk that something might come out of control, which led to the authorities in their time making proposals to tighten up their arms legislation. We're still going to keep an eye on that. Ultimately, nothing can replace tough social control. We see from countries that are trying to do that, that if it fails, there is a lot that is lost. That doesn't mean we don't have to evaluate what we're doing now. That doesn't mean we're not going to see what we can learn, because I'm open to that. Let me also conclude by reminding you that in the statistics that I have seen, at least for the last year, what we can call common hunting weapons, which is what we are talking about here, is used in a minority of killing cases in Norway. It has been remarkably stable until this day. It can at least be read as a sign that social control is significant. I perceive the representative so that we do not know what has been in force so far, will still apply. That point of intersection, with legislative responsibility in the position I have, will follow very closely. That is why I am concerned about an evaluation. That is why I am also open to the possibility of coming back with further corrective measures. Of course, it is part of the reflections I have given to the representative on inspection information and close cooperation with the health authorities. I see it primarily as particularly challenging in relation to home-stored military weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e320	I am pleased that the Minister of Justice has an open position on the question that I have asked. I agree with the Minister that most of the tragedies that have happened to weapons have happened to HV weapons. We've got it under control. The second is that you actually have criminal environments that have weapons. That's the harder thing to get into. Neither are they under the same social control as the minister mentioned. It is quite right that Norway has a long tradition of hunting weapons. Hunters in general have good kisses on each other. In arms clubs and that kind of thing you're very concerned about being fit to have weapons. There is actually some reason why I asked questions about locking and what the regulation says about one and four weapons. The hunters' sails are very concerned that they won't come into the light that weapons can be used in killing. They believe that if all weapons had been locked down, this could have prevented the possibility that those with a weapon could almost be spotted. We had a tragic event recently. It was said that there had been problems between two people over a long time. One had a weapon. In the light of thought, perhaps the police should have done the same thing as the Minister of Justice spoke of in relation to those who were in prison, that he should actually have received a warning and the next round was taken. Then maybe some things had been avoided. When the Minister of Justice has his annual conversations with the police officers around, I think he should put the spotlight on this, because it can prevent the loss of human life, which none of us want. It's about making sure you don't have the opportunity to do anything in Harmony, which you wouldn't have done if you hadn't had a weapon, or if it had been locked down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e333	No one has been given to reason on what could lead to a killing. It can be complex and very complex. I note from the statistics on killings in countries that have a number of killings higher than Norway, also in relation to the population and where there are fewer firearms, that unfortunately there is no lack of imagination about how to kill people. I'm not gonna go into details. It would actually have been to go on the side of the main point of the interpellant. I perceive the interpellant there to find, in our country and with our culture, the right point of intersection at all times. That's how I see it. I fully agree with the interpellant that there are situations where criminals have weapons. The police are probably putting a lot of emphasis on it. We must be very aware that there are three countries involved in daily unarmed policing in the Western world. It's Iceland, the United Kingdom and Norway. At the same time, there is no doubt that our police are also trained for the sharp situations that may arise, and the training of the police is so good that it is virtually not fired by our units. So that means Norwegian police training is good. I have been told that the unarmed Norwegian police are more trained than the armed Swedish police, and that the training procedures are good. Then it's the intersections of everyday life. The representative was concerned about some of what I myself took up in my first answer, which I think is a good practice, namely to follow with people like this. is drunk, and then abuses the weapon, and so, as I said, as one does in some police districts, giving a warning, and next time it slams. There is one way to turn on the tone and express your responsibility. We know that driving a motor vehicle in a crazy way has consequences. I believe that the marking that some police districts have made here, also in parts of the country where there is much of the culture that the representative says, is important. Let me nevertheless stress that the culture that she knows well, and that I know a lot about, is not just about districts. It also applies to urban communities. I know, for example. Good for weapons-gathering environments. People are deadly and very real about acting properly. I think the danger can always occur in relation to the weapon, which it can occur in relation to other ways of harming or killing people, at the moment it's tipping against a purely psychic. Finally, I would like to say that there is no doubt that the law requires the weapon to be locked down. But it's the details of the cabinet and when you're going to use it, that's been evaluated in regulation later. Of course, those are the questions that I want to include when we're going to evaluate the entire system we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e348	The President will assume that the expression ‘next time it smacks’ was intended to be understood in terms of transferred importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e351	This is a debate that might have deserved much greater attention and also more political resources than we choose to give it. But I must say that I believe that the inter-pellant, and indeed the Minister of Justice, has a clear approach to this issue. Actually, here we are talking about what is part of the criminal policy we politicians could finely discuss more, measures and thoughts that come into front, and not afterwards, measures that can help prevent episodes from happening, and that do not necessarily refer to the thoughts of the reactions that are to occur to a possible attacker after tragic episodes have occurred. I also fully agree with the Minister of Justice that here we must have a balanced relationship against the concerns of weapons owners in Norway today actually take. Most of the weapons owners are serious. Most of the weapons owners may be more eager than those of us who don't have weapons, thinking about security. Nevertheless, we know that the general rules we have in the Arms Act and in the Arms Regulations are of great importance to those who do not handle weapons in a good enough way. In this way, I think the signal given by the Minister of Justice now is important, and also the willingness he gives to evaluate the set of rules we have, and also – as I understood it – to continuously evaluate the events and incidents that characterise much of the debate. That's what's needed. This debate should not be taken on Monday after tragic events have occurred, but we should take a general debate and have general instruments put in place. I must say at the same time that I believe that that evaluation should certainly involve a new round and a new assessment of the issue of lockdown, and that there should be further clarification. We know that in terms of crime rates in Norway, the number of killings is very low. I think part of the background for that, among other things. is that we have such a serious armed team. But it's a moment in relation to the crime scene I think we should bring with us in the assessment of the weapon situation. This does not apply to killing and, to the extent that actions that would seem so good, but it is the threat picture, especially in the case of vulnerable women at home. Many report that one sees it as a threat only that the weapon is there, and that it is used in hidden contexts and through hidden statements. Such a threat might have been overcome by even more stringent requirements in relation to the issue of lockdown.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e364	We've seen shocking episodes from our society in the use of weapons. Not long ago, the police revealed a HV-man in Eastfold who had over 40 firearms at home and 20,000 shots lying down. We know that easy access to weapons in general increases the possibility that weapons will be used for criminal purposes. The fact that a person is able to gain access to so many weapons that he can almost wage a war alone is shocking. The existing weapons laws and instructions can, in my opinion, only go one way, and that is for tightening up. Weapons will be more difficult to get, and it will be more demanding to keep weapons. I think the film 'Bowling for Columbia' gives a shocking account of what happens when liberal forces control the development of arms in society. Last year the police were given extended opportunities to visit after weapons. The punishment for carrying weapons and arresting weapons during fighting has increased and provides better protection for the public against criminals. Extended law enforcement powers and enhanced criminal responses will provide criminals with clear information on how the tolerance limit goes, as well as zero tolerance for the use and storage of knives and firearms in the public space located easily accessible both on the body and in cars. The fact that people can legally keep so many weapons at home poses a security risk to the surrounding environment, especially when people act in the affected area. It also poses a security risk by allowing these weapons to easily land in the claws of criminals in the event of any burglary. Then I would say that on the other hand, if you buy a gun or a revolver in Norway, you have to join an approved club. You have to have extensive training, you have to have a permit from the police, which also checks your reputation, and the weapon can only be used for sports, exercise or competition on the courts approved by the police. Nevertheless, the use of these weapons is killing in Norway. And then the question is, Will laws, rules and ban reduce the number of killings committed with weapons? Is it so that legal weapons take fewer lives than illegal? Or should we look at other instruments? And how do you get control of the illegal arms market? We can leave to arms clubs to provide rational and thorough training in the use and storage of weapons, but will this prevent people with weapons from acting irrationally, from losing their minds, from becoming mentally unbalanced, and then using weapons in an effect? Will a person who loses his mind come back to his rational "I" from the time he will use the weapon for the purpose of killing, until he unlocks his weapon and takes out his weapon? Of course, it's impossible to give any answer to this. We are also told that those who commit these acts are often controlled, calm, and mindful people. Nevertheless, they do these actions that have such great and fatal consequences. So I would like to say one thing about the Workers' Party's wish to remove the obligation of professional secrecy for people in public positions. So first you have to break the obligation of professional secrecy in the case of the Arms Act – now it is also set up to apply to the Dog Act. I have to say that the obligation of professional secrecy for civil servants is finally being diluted. In addition, the Workers' Party, SV and the Progress Party show a seemingly touching concern for people's privacy by wanting to give people a receipt when they are being searched in public places. It seems to me to be an inefficient way of detecting weapons in the public space, where the use of weapons is most often carried out in a drug-affected state.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e383	The intention of the interpellant I think is good and important, and it gives a signal that you care about an area that can create great tragedies for people, and we should appreciate that. At the same time, I think we have to be careful to think that locked-down weapons are the solution. I think the issue is much more about the person behind. If we focus on the weapon, we focus initially on a dead thing, which does nothing more than the one who uses it, is willing to do. Ergo, we have to shift the focus from the weapon to the attitude of the individual who has access to the weapon. That's where the answer lies. If we want to affect people mentally so that the threshold for using weapons gets higher, we have done something about this. I don't think locked up weapons as such is the solution. What about the criminals? Will they have a problem with locked weapons? At my discretion not at all. They acquire weapons independently of any regulation to which society is otherwise attached. It's clear they have their channels that the police have to fight. But they get guns, and it's naive to think that if we lock them down, they won't get hold of it. The penalty framework is, of course, as the representative Dybevig had in mind, a signal externally on how to care about this. It was with interest that I heard the reasoning of the representative, Dybevig, because it must mean that on behalf of his party, which is one of the government parties, he now intends to do something about this, and that we can probably look forward to a real commitment to justice policy, among other things. in revised. So far there has not been any winner in the government, at least from my point of view. So then the representative Dybevig has a job to do internally. Once he's done it, we'll see what he can deliver. Another element in which the interpellant was involved is the health issue in relation to those who have access to weapons. That, I think, is a key – communication and interaction between public services: those who know who have weapons, and those who assess their health status. If we get a good interaction between them, we're going to be far from preventing tragedies. To the extent that confidentiality is a problem, I registered what the minister said, and I assume that you work actively with that piece, so it won't be the triggering factor that creates more tragedies. Nor can we prohibit any thing that can be used as a weapon when acting in an affect. You don't want to get that far. You can't ban all knives, you can't ban cars, ski poles, lawn mowers – whatever. You can't get over it. The safety factor is at the seventh and last on the unbalanced one. Of course, we should support all good measures, but from my point of view, I have to make it clear that a weapon itself does not do more than the human being behind it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e398	I would first like to thank the representative Anne Helen Rui for bringing up this debate. We on the SV side think it's an extremely important debate to take. I think it's a little strange to hear the representative Ellingen, who really cares about how important it is that the weapon is properly stored. For me and for SV, this is also about protecting the environment, including the arms owner's family. We know about some suicides committed using firearms, despite the fact that they are perfectly legitimate weapons. There has also been a lot of debate about expanded suicide lately. This might have been avoided if you had not had weapons so easily available, if they had been properly locked down, but even if it had been so that you had knowledge that the mental state of the weapon holder was not such that they should have weapons, and that it had been intervened. The two things in combination I think had been terribly important. That, I believe, is a challenge for the Minister of Justice and the Government to address. We have a very large gun density in Norway. There are a lot of people who have guns at home at sea, and most of them keep them safe and use them properly. We're a hunting and fishing community, but it can't prevent us from doing our job to get an overview of who has the weapons, how many weapons they have, and that the weapons are securely locked down. Then I and SV also believe that one must go in and check sometimes if one suspects that the weapon is not securely locked down. I don't think that's a very high priority for the police. I have also asked questions about whether the police, for example. has moved out to so-called housewreck, has made sure to retract the gun license afterwards if it turns out that something has happened. The answer I got, I can't say that made me completely calm. I think it's a field that we need to have some focus on the future. I'm currently playing that ball to the Minister of Justice, but we're going to follow closely on this particular area in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e415	It's a commendable commitment on the part of the interpellant in this case. We always want and always need to focus on weapons and safety around weapons. All laws, regulations and administrative provisions can be improved by having an involvement with developments in this area, which these laws and regulations must respect at all times. There are, as several speakers have pointed out, limitations on the impact of interventions. Of course, in utmost consistency, it is possible to propose to lock down any weapon and thus seek to secure itself in relation to unauthorised access to the weapon. But everyone knows that in practice this will not be done, and in practice it is absolutely impossible to control whether everyone would do so. I have personal experience with the damage the weapon can cause when they are being used improperly and incorrectly. I have also experienced suicide with weapons in my immediate family. And I dare say that rules on locking down and securing weapons in the two cases I am thinking of had not helped anything. It is, as Ellingsen's representative points out, the people behind and the people around the use of weapons that will ultimately be the decisive factor in whether arms teams become a happy phenomenon, or whether it becomes a disaster. I also believe that, in parallel with looking at the law and regulations in relation to weapons, efforts should be maintained and continued to improve the understanding of the use of weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e426	I think this has been a constructive and good debate with a fine tone. That is why I was actually a little surprised when the representative Dybevig came to the end of his post and accused the Workers' Party that we were supposed to break the obligation of professional secrecy for health professionals. My question was really the opposite: how can this be done? So it's Dybevig's own government that has sent out a circular stating that the cooperation between health professionals and the police should be better in such cases. And my question is, how should this be solved? I have experience in health, and the duty of confidentiality is one of the most sacred things we have. It's mostly because we're bottled up with it from the health service, but also because we can actually be court-martialed when the obligation of professional secrecy breaks down. That is why I am a little surprised that this can only be done by a circular. Then the Minister of Justice was on the alert. I agree with that, but I am a little uncertain as to whether one should at least make an assessment of whether the obligation to provide a warning against the obligation of professional secrecy in a courtroom would be the one that would lose. Several have been concerned with what is going on, both housewrecks at home and threats in homes with guns. There's something going on at home in those situations, but if there's not going to be any health professionals or the police to know about it, it's not very good to do anything about it. But, as I said, the weapons are locked down, I think that time is an essential factor in getting back to mind presence enough to know what you shouldn't do. Then the Minister of Justice was inside our police, our unarmed police, and I'm very happy that we have it. Because in the country where most police are shot, they're shot with their own guns. It's in the U.S. police. So I would very much like to keep our policemen unarmed. I hope we can keep doing that, and I think that's also some of the reason why we're lucky enough to release a lot of gunpowder with the police, who'll be the victims. But being without weapons means that we have to be good at preventive work around weapons. It means both locking down and encouraging social control, but also encouraging weaponry. On the police's side, it's probably the most important thing to get hold of where you can see that there may be problems, that they're checking out if there's a gun owner in front of them, and that they're trying to remove the weapon quickly when there's an imbalance or a rush in the picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e437	It was the representative of Storberget who said it was important to have debates ahead of tragic situations. Yes, and it requires a reflection, and I think there has been a lot of reflection in this debate. It made a special impression on me to hear the representative Holstad, who could see for himself that in two tragic events in the near context, locking would not have solved anything. That doesn't mean that there's one answer here, that probably means that we have to balance more relationships all the time. The basic thing for me is that in Norway we still have very strong non-governmental organisations that exercise social control and self-employment that are incredibly important. It has been a concern to me in many ways that we have underestimated this tradition in Norway. I can see that no one here has done it, and not at all the interpellant. But when you're at the edge of this tradition, where, we're going to say, culture doesn't inherit, or is in environments where it doesn't exist -- what do we do? That's exactly what makes us hold the debate, and we're discussing how to regulate our weapons legislation. There is no doubt that the law says that the weapon should be locked down – it should be from the first weapon, so the nuance is technically safe in relation to rifles and hails, but not on lockdown. You have that duty from the first weapon, including rifles and hail. For the other weapons that I mentioned, there is a requirement for a safe from the first weapon. We have also strengthened considerably what many of the representatives have been involved in, the police's right to seize weapons in the open street and in the vehicle. Of course, we have done that because it is vital to create respect and understanding for not carrying weapons in such a context. It's also to create security from most people when it comes to violence. I am also aware of the situation which may be behind the closed doors of the home, and which may arise, and one of the conditions mentioned here by some, among others. The representative of Thorkildsen is, of course, the knowledge we are now aiming at in the police in relation to domestic violence. I've even met it when I visited the police district and saw how you actually became aware. There is no doubt that threatening weapons in such a situation should be a very serious thing in relation to the one who is actually a gun owner. As for the general, I think we're going to be careful to draw comparisons between us and other countries. It's not because we have to be blind in order to move elsewhere, we can come here, but because I think we should first of all take care of what is the positive aspects of our own culture, the strong voluntary tradition. In addition, we're going to be open if there's something that could risk slipping out. I said in my first post, and I like to repeat it here, that's why I want to keep up with the development, evaluate the measures and see if anything more can be done. But the representative, Mr Rui, said it most clearly when she said that we must be good at all the prevention efforts. As far as her questions about health professionals are concerned, I understand that, but as far as I have understood the law, there is also a responsibility for care. I perceive, however, that she wanted a closer drilling in the principles surrounding this, and I will contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e450	Then the interpellant debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e466	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e474	During the debate Ulf Erik Knudsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to amend the rules governing the composition of the board of the Travel Guarantee Fund in such a way that the member nominated by the branch is independent of the competing companies.’;» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-15.ana.ud1342e496	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
