ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e45	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.A. Harry Hansen and Arne Kielland resigned at death. It was with sadness that we received the notice that formerly aggrieved representative Harry Hansen from Hordaland was dead, 84 years old. Harry Hansen came early into the political work of the Workers' Party in Bergen. He was elected as a youngest in the Presidency and the City Council in Bergen from 1952. From 1964 to 1969 he was rapporteur in Bergen. He became a popular rapporteur, concerned with people's everyday lives and living conditions. He had confidence in broad circles, he was a living commitment to housing, power supply, party games and municipal mergers. He was the rapporteur who gave the city life and face, as Bergen’s Official Journal so aptly wrote in his memory at his death. And the Bergen stood closest to Harry Hansen's heart. He himself said that it was with some resentment that he left Bergen when he was elected to the Stortinget in 1969. Here he sat for three periods, until 1981. In his first period here, he was a member of the Committee on Transport. He spent two years in the Defence Committee before joining the Financial Committee and the Workers' Party's Financial Policy Spokesman. He was particularly concerned that the young people who were going to the housing market had to receive interest rebates in the tax on interest costs, and he was able to do so. In the Working Party’s big crowd, he was the knowledge-rich, thinking, and foolish man who was always in a good mood. He was warm, raw and inclusive. He had the ability to make other people feel significant. But he wouldn't be in spite of any more offers. He preferred the role of big business representative, where he could more easily keep in touch with Bergen and Hordaland and the people there. Harry Hansen became a member of the Tax Commission of 1981 and head of the Board of Directors of the State Borrowing Fund. His whole political activity was permeated by improving the everyday lives of ordinary people. He was deeply concerned that normal youth would be given the opportunity to get education, and he did a very good job of obtaining good loan conditions for the youth. Even after he left office as an active politician, Harry Hansen was busy and engaged in politics. He participated in Bergen Arbeidergemeinschaft as long as health allowed it, always engaged and informed, always with the ability to grasp the political substance and to go to the core of one thing – an ability he retained until the last. Harry Hansen had a burning commitment to people and society. He is characterised as a highly performance-oriented politician, always with a dream of improving society, so that individuals would experience material security and freedom and justice. Arne Kielland was born in Skien on 8 September 1939. Through his growth he developed an interest in politics and social issues that came to follow him all his life. He studied state science, with the main task of the work movement in Nigeria. He also spent six months in the UN forces in Congo, which helped to develop his contacts and interest in the region. The political and professional career of Kielland was diverse. He began as Secretary of State at Unge Left 1958–59 and then became Chairman of the Young Workers' Union in Telemark 1966–67. He worked as an editorial secretary in the Labour Court in Røros for two years at the end of the 1960s. In 1969 he was elected to Stortinget. There he was for two periods. Later he worked as an hour teacher and consultant at the Telemark District Court School in Bø and saw two years as amanuensis, then as editor of the Bø Blade newspaper – a position he held until he died. Arne Kielland entered the Stortinget for the Workers' Party, South Trondelag, in 1969. In his eight years at Stortinget he was a member of the Justice Committee, the Defence Committee and the Foreign and Constitutional Committee. In its time in the Judicial Committee, there was in particular decriminalisation of male homophilis Kielland was concerned about and became known for. He promoted an interpellation on the repeal of the law paragraph as early as 1970, but did not get a pass until two years later. Kielland was the case-rapporteur for this case, a natural conclusion of an engagement for what he called ‘this convict of criminal law’. Nevertheless, foreign issues were an area Kielland was very concerned about. His period in Africa early in life contributed to this interest. It was also his view of the great foreign policy issue in the 1970s, namely Norwegian membership of the European Community, which was going to affect his life and political activity. Kielland left the Workers' Party on the same day that the EC vote was held in 1972. The time was not randomly chosen. He wanted to show that the outcome of the vote did not matter to the change. He then represented the SF for the rest of the period and the Socialist Left Party for the period 1973-77. Member of the Socialist Left Party he remained until his death. Kielland moved through large parts of the political spectrum during his political career. Although it led him into many discussions with colleagues in and outside his own party, he kept the main features of his political views throughout his life. Kielland had a broad field of interest. He studied Russian in Defense, where he had the sergeant's degree. He studied Nigerian socialism and took the basics of public law in 1983. He held a position of trust both in the Joint Council of Southern Africa and the Norwegian-Cuban Association and combined his interest in sport with trust in the Board of Directors of the Norwegian Cycling Association. Kielland also wrote several books, from its time on the Stortinget and on issues related to defence and foreign affairs. He also published regular letters of hoarding about his work at Stortinget. Arne Kielland leaves behind wife and three children. We remember Harry Hansen and Arne Kielland in deep respect and bring peace to their memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e94	Two permit applications are available: from the Christian People's Party on sick leave for the representative Ivar Østberg from 3 November onwards and until further notice from the Right-wing Group on maternity leave for the representative Silja Ekeland Bjørkly from 3 November onwards and from the Spring session of Stortinget On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the county of Hordaland: Erlend NornesFor Troms County: Leif Christian Johansen3. Leif Christian Johansen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Ivar Østberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e127	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e130	On behalf of the representatives of Lodve Solholm, Øystein Hedstrøm, Øyvind Waksdal and myself, I allow myself to propose a reassessment of protective measures on Svalbard in terms of protection and mining.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e140	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will propose that the Stortinget deal with the supplementary agenda on the ordinary agenda. . No objection has been raised against the proposal and is deemed to have been adopted. The case listed on the supplementary agenda has not been covered by the regulatory period, i.e.: 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e162	There are thousands of protective cultural memories around Norway — castles and shelters, which are important testimony to past times, church buildings, railway stations, defence buildings and fortifications. In short, the Norwegian community, that is, all of us in common, is responsible for a variety of cultural-historical buildings and facilities in which the offspring should be allowed to participate. But although we are a small and relatively rich country, with all the world's opportunities, we have no thoughtful strategy to ensure maintenance and conservation. I have tried to study the various professional budgets and the responsibilities that the various departments describe within their fields of competence. What I can first of all conclude from this review is that it is likely that all the departments will conclude that no adequate funding is provided for the ongoing maintenance. That is, the maturity of this building mass is large and is likely to only increase in the future. Experiences from the Castle and from Bygdø Kongsgård should indicate that we should learn. The costs of missing maintenance result in either a total or significant cost of complete renovation. I am convinced that it is not a lack of will that necessarily is the cause of this lack of maintenance. But the preservation of these cultural-historical buildings is in strong conflict with what is the primary task of individual departments and departments. And of course, when the budgets of public enterprises are under pressure, primary tasks will be ahead of secondary tasks. It's just natural that it gets like this. A budget of 2 million is proposed for the next year. kr for the preservation of Sami cultural memories. Nearly 1,200 buildings and cultural monuments have been registered in the Sami settlement areas that are protected. It means roughly that most of these buildings are protected from decay, not protected for posterity. There is no possibility of having such control over this as to avoid maturity. In fact, the defence is the only agency, at least as I have an overview of, that has promoted a big message and given the Stortinget the opportunity to discuss society's ambitions in terms of maintaining the building of defence policy and national political importance that there is a need to protect the future. The Defence Committee has repeatedly wanted feedback on how this should be followed up. I understand that at a time when there are major changes in the defense, there is not exactly the preservation of the attachments that are in the shot when discussing the use of the funds. But the lack of follow-up in this area can lead to the loss of valuable parts of our cultural history for the posterity, and there is little we can do when the decay is total. The aim of this interpellation is primarily to focus on this and to invite the Minister of Labour and Administration, which I believe has a coordinating responsibility, to take the necessary initiatives to make a full registration, to evaluate the ownership of these future and present cultural historical buildings, to ensure that a comprehensive plan is presented for their management and to give the Storting the opportunity to discuss this, so that it becomes part of the social policy. The government of Stoltenberg took an initiative for a pre-project for a registration that was made in cooperation with both the Defence, State Building and the Riksantikvaren. I believe that this preliminary project is a good basis for further work. But it's urgent, and I mean it's urgent. I've been on a couple of small inspections for my own part to perhaps get me a better overview. In the municipality of Rollag we have a great stave church from the 1200s-1300s. It is municipal property and is actually used by the community. It can almost only be used in the summer, because it would be quite disastrous to fire there in the winter. On the municipal budget there are NOK 5000 per year set for maintenance. It goes without saying that then the Riksantikvarn must enter with funds from time to time to make considerable upgrades to keep this church at all, along with other churches, in the condition necessary if they are to be preserved for the posterity. And it would now be strange if it were to be so that churches that have existed from the 1100s to the 1200s, and that we have managed to keep living, would be due now when we are in such a welfare situation and in such an economic positive situation that we are actually in. It would be shameful if that were the case! But in fact, I believe that these stave churches, for example, with the considerable value they have for the afterglow, should not only be the responsibility of the Church and the municipalities, but a state joint responsibility, in which we actively participated in the maintenance through a comprehensive management plan. In conclusion, I would like to mention that it is not just money that is a matter of concern. This is primarily a matter of organisation. But the worst thing about the lack of organisation and the continuous maintenance is that eventually it starts to be pretty messy with craftsmen who are able to take this job. I think that both the municipalities, the county councils and the state, including the defence, would have everything to do with running programs that actually trained the craftsmen that are needed for us to actually be able to do the work in a proper and good way in retrospect. To repair the most vital parts of a stave church, pine trees are needed at an age of up to 250-300 years. Because we don't have any policy of caring for our forests, in a few years' time, this type of pine tree will no longer exist again. It just shows what broad field society needs to engage in if we're to be able to do a better job in the future. My appeal to the Minister of Labour and Administration is that he hurry, get this whole cooperation going, get a comprehensive policy presented and invites the Stortinget to take part in this policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e190	Let me first say that I fully share the concerns of Jørgen Kosmos both for the Rollag stave church and the other stave churches – they are magnificent. I share his concern for the old pine forest. Fortunately, we have some left in the Tolga-Nord-Österdal area and also some in the North Gudbrandsdals area, but we have to make sure that we have a good composition of the forest in Norway also for the protection of buildings. In general, I share the Kosmo's concern about the protection and preservation of the country's cultural-historical properties, and it's not just me, it's the entire government. The Bondevik I government therefore set up a public sample in 1999 to assess objectives, strategies and instruments in the field of cultural memory. The committee presented its position in 2001, which, following a broad consultation process, is now being prepared to be submitted to the Stortinge. The study points to a number of proposals to strengthen cultural memory protection, including: A cultural memory law should be developed.Privately, costs cannot be borne by them by imposing unreasonable costs on cultural memories of national value.The Planning and Building Act must be strengthened as an instrument of cultural memory policy.Better criteria for prioritisation between cultural memories need to be developed.Economic instruments must be strengthened, inter alia. the establishment of a cultural memory fund, and charges for the monitoring, protection and maintenance of cultural memories, should be reduced.The availability of data on cultural memories and settings needs to be improved and research and knowledge-building needs to be focused on cultural memory registers and their use. Today, private owners are responsible for the daily management of the vast majority of cultural memories and environments in Norway. I want to make it clear that very many of these owners are making an extraordinary effort, an effort far beyond what could be expected from both their responsibility and their economy – they are making an extraordinary effort to preserve these cultural memories. But we can't expect private individuals to assume a responsibility that goes far beyond their ability to bear, or what is reasonable based on the national importance of cultural memories. In order to strengthen private efforts and reverse negative developments in individual areas, it is necessary to develop instruments to stimulate increased protection efforts by private owners and businesses. Thus, in the context of the revised national budget for the current year, the Government proposed the establishment of a cultural memory fund, initially with an administrative capital of 200 million. kr. The fund is intended to mobilise funds from individuals, businesses and others, thus creating a synergy effect that will give us a greater effort that far exceeds the fund's amount. So to what is the primary responsibility of the Minister of Labour and Administration: how to ensure transparency and funding in relation to the cultural-historical properties that are state-owned. It is a problem – I agree with the representative Kosmo – that there is not a sufficient overview of the properties the state owns directly or through entire companies. What we can determine with great certainty is that the state owns a significant number of properties of cultural historical value, and that there is a significant lag in the maintenance of many of these properties. The interpellant itself, as Minister of Labour and Administration, helped to focus its attention on this problem through the creation of a pre-project for the country's cultural-historical properties. The March 2002 pilot project report pointed to some important issues as well as the lack of overview of cultural historical property in state ownership: No government property manager has the management and conservation of cultural historical properties as its primary responsibility, and few of the state property managers have their own professional competence in cultural memory protection.The maintenance situation varies from sector to sector, and there is a significant impact on individual sectors.One side of the problems is that the funding is fragmented, as the representative Kosmo himself was involved, it is divided into many budget chapters and many arrangements where maintenance is very often a low priority task. And the funding is too poor, especially where there is a lack of renting arrangements. On the basis of the pre-project report, the Government decided last September to carry out a major effort to get an overview of the country's cultural-historical properties, both through national defence plans, rapid registration and its own work on models of ownership and management of the properties. The work is initially planned for 2003 and 2004 and takes place in close cooperation with the departments and departments concerned. By the end of the current year, a rapid registration of the country's properties shall have been carried out, with a preliminary and rough assessment of the protection needs. The results of the rapid registration can be systematically reviewed and evaluated in order to satisfy the regulatory requirements of the Culture Memory Act and to identify the need for improved maintenance and any exceptional measures. But the main part of the work is to get all sectors to develop national defence plans. The national plans for which sectoral authorities are responsible will provide the necessary basis for a full overview and facilitate the planning and implementation of adequate maintenance. Such major works have already been carried out for, among others. a sector such as the Defence and several areas of the transport sector. It will require additional resources to repair damage after many years of failed maintenance. However, satisfactory solutions must also be available to finance ongoing management, operation and maintenance over time. Many of the cultural-historical properties are not only attractive from a cultural-historical perspective, they are also attractive as properties, although they are not designed and designed by architects in our century. Because they are attractive as properties, they can also be assumed to be self-financing. At the same time, it is certain that several important properties with a high national protection value do not have sufficient income potential. In order to find out how ownership and management of properties, buildings and structures of historical value should be organised, we have launched an investigation work on different models. In this work, several models are being considered, including proposals addressed in the Stortinget on a model cultural historical fund. by the National Trust in England. But no matter what form of ownership or administration we choose, we have to keep in mind that the best way to ensure protection and maintenance is that the properties are in use and that they are used by someone who is interested in preserving them and has the financial ability to finance the costs. To think that we can get a good form of administration, finance and ownership here if it doesn't imply that the buildings are actually in use, I think that's naive. But we have to find a model that combines the organisational and financing conditions with the desire to use the properties, to the extent that they can be used. Because today's responsibility for and management of property is scattered, and because one lacks an overview of what the state actually owns of cultural historical property, this is a difficult job. The work must also be seen in the context of the work of the Government to assess the modernisation of Defence Buildings and State Buildings respectively. I think I have everyone with me when I say that both big business and government are concerned with securing the country's protected cultural-historical properties, and that we are all impatient to get suggestions on the table on how to improve the preservation of these values. At the same time, it is important to take inwards that these issues are so complex and complex that it takes time to provide an information base for the right decisions in this area. I can assure the interpellant that this work by the Government is given both priority and resources, so that we can make proposals and take the necessary action as soon as it is sound from the information we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e255	I thank you for the positive attitude – I really do – and I hope that the positive attitude will lead to positive action. But because this is so complex, as the Council of State also says, it is necessary that someone takes an initiative and decides and initiates the process. It can't be expected that the various bureaucracies in all these thousands of errands just by finding a letter will come up with the good ideas for how this will be coordinated in the future. For everyone wants to hold on, even if you can't manage the responsibility you have. That is why I think the Council of State must, in its position as Minister of Coordination for State Administration, take some in-depth initiatives that push results, otherwise this will be a desert-free migration without results. I agree with the Council of State that one of the most important elements is ownership and responsibility. It is clear that when buildings are in use, the user, together with the owner, also has an interest in keeping the building in order. But it's complicated, especially when we're talking about protective buildings. The defense has many buildings that have changed perhaps a hundred times. It's really just the outer shell that's left, that's protective. This must be adjusted with reason, while recalling what the historical value is. I'm aware of the Cultural Memory Fund, and that this has actually resulted in a slightly larger provision this year than what you might have hoped for last year. But it doesn't help much when you reduce other resources. The result is zero, nothing better than last year's. And that's what's sad, because I think when you set up the Cultural Memory Fund, you actually had a desire for the return to be added to what you had in the past. But when you actually reduce, among other things. the appropriations of the national product for this, I think the win goes up in the spin, unfortunately. I agree with the Council of State that much of this will be privately owned in the future. That's why it's important that you also have a policy on how to help the private to do this, otherwise they too will have to let the buildings fall due.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e266	In many contexts, it might be tactically reasonable to say that we really agree. In this case, it is very gratifying to note that on a non-tactical basis it seems to be this way, at least very far along the way, that we actually agree. I don't think that's any of what Jørgen Kosmo now said, to which I can't join, including the need for central initiative, and for coordination. And that's exactly what was in what I was responding to the interpellation. A number of key initiatives are being taken. We made a big message about cultural memories. An initiative for registration has therefore been taken. Requirements for national protection plans are in place. We are working on changes in financial support schemes and framework conditions. These initiatives are therefore taken from the centre and coordinated. But at the same time, we must be clear that we must not believe that the problems can only be solved centrally. It has to be coordinated and initiated centrally, but then we have to stick to the sector principle, that it is the defence that is responsible for the defence facilities, universities and colleges that are responsible for their buildings, etc. Because if we were to try here to develop a model where everything protection was actually going to happen from a central point, we would remove the unusually important impulse it is that there is a terrible strong commitment to protection and conservation also out in the sectors, and we would break with what are good principles for administration in general. So we need to find a good balance between local responsibility and central coordination and initiation. I also want to say – and it is basically just to give a compliment to the Defense, since I have no responsibility for it and therefore no honor either – that I think the defense's work in trying to preserve by transformation with the continued use of old defense facilities in many ways is exemplary. I don't want to say that they've done it in all areas yet. But if you, for example, see projects they have for the preservation of Old Fredrikstad, with the combination of new uses and conservation of the environment, I think there's a lot we can learn from that way of working. When it comes to budgetary issues, I think I'll leave it here now. I don't think we can necessarily assume that the total expenditure of the state should be increased for the preservation of cultural-historical properties. There should be good space within the budgetary framework we are already talking about. And it's a problem that can naturally come back to at the budget procedure in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e275	This is an important interpellation, mainly because we are in a field where we lack more pressure – pressure in relation to central government initiative, pressure in relation to how county councils work with protective cultural memories outside, and not least in relation to how Norwegian police and prosecution authorities deal with very sad matters, and which in many ways is a symbol of how local cultural memory protection works in Norway. We're getting ever-increasing cultural memory crime. That is a result – and a political responsibility that I think many have to share – of the fact that over many years we may have actually talked more about plan and bureaucracy than about tangible resources. What I want to dwell on in relation to cultural memories and cultural memories is perhaps primarily the local and everyday cultural memories, not just castles and fortresses and churches. If you take a journey through the Gudbrand valley or the Østerdalen, you will experience that many of the protective cultural memories we surround with just fall down. And if they don't fall off their sails, they get good help from those who either sit as lodgers, or who have some connection to the buildings. It's tragic. And it's a paradox that the richer society seems to be, the less we actually use to take care of our own culture. So with regard to the challenge Norway has as a nation to meet new cultures, I am convinced that they are right, those who say that we must first be safe and secure in our own culture, before we can meet others's. And there's some people who've managed to figure it out through history. We hear stories from after the siege of St. Petersburg and from other cities that had been hard hit by war – the first thing they fixed up was their own cultural memories. It meant something to identity, and it meant something to society. There are two points I would like to raise in the debate. The first is what I mentioned in relation to the more local and everyday cultural memories, especially the industrial ones. In Hedmark we are facing, among others. preservation of Folldal Gruver, Klevfoss Industrial Museum, etc., which in many ways stands in the situation that they have almost no chance of receiving public support. The second is what I've also been dealing with, the question of the building culture memories, which extend from housekeepers' places to nobles, and which today require considerable incentives, not only in the form of money, but in the form of crafts and in the form of a planned work that can ensure this for the future. Therefore, a further debate on this should help to ensure not only fair support schemes but also classification here in relation to the issue of protection and the question of what to peace. Efforts are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e286	I would like to thank the Council of State for a convincing statement of the things that the state is now doing to create a plan and to take the necessary steps to ensure public construction. But however we turn around and turn around, we know that the number of buildings is significant, and we also know that a lot of buildings are privately owned. I want to emphasise here the importance of creating a climate that makes it a private owner of a protective building a good situation. I strongly disagree with the representative Storberget when he says that private owners provide good help for falls. I would like to point out that private owners in Norway have been considerable custodians of cultural memories, whether we are talking about housekeepers' places, or we are talking about large farms. We see a great deal of effort in many villages and a great awareness of caring for the countryside. If you travel to Heidal in Gudbrandsdalen, it is a valley that is largely peaceful – rubble and stump from end to end for many miles – and it is very well cared for. But that doesn't mean that being a private owner is just easy. We have an institution called Norwegian Cultural Heritage, which is doing an important job linking public efforts to public protection and putting private property at work. It is an activity that should be considered in this context. Tax issues should also be considered, and it is important to look at this with craftsmanship and the link between education and the ability to live from their craftsmanship. Today we have 27 subjects, I think, which are perceived as vulnerable, for which Norwegian Crafts Development has a special responsibility. What we see is that it's hard to get education in these areas, and I think in particular that the mechanisms that lie between education and work are something to look at in this regard. I am absolutely convinced that for many of these crafts there is a market that makes it possible to live on them. We should look at how these mechanisms can be improved. When we get this review of public buildings, I will also point to the efforts and importance of the Council of State in terms of its own interest in its constructions and structures. I also want to bring forward the defense, where we not only see a great will in the establishment, but where we also see a very large voluntary effort from former officer or people who have been associated with the Defense, among others. in the performance of the large model collections held by the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e297	The theme of protecting and preserving the country's cultural heritage is very complex and challenging. Registration is an important theme, but also the selection and demarcation of properties to be preserved and secured is an important aspect of this matter. Good cooperation between protection authorities and owners in this context will be difficult. The main clear challenge is to ensure an economic foundation for the implementation of protection and conservation. Extensive registrations and plans are of little use without funds for both upgrading, maintenance and operation. Experience from its own municipality suggests that repairs and maintenance of cultural historical buildings are very costly and labor-intensive. I am therefore pleased that the Ministry of Labour and Administration has undertaken the investigation of various financing models and is looking forward to having these presented. That this will probably be a demanding task, I don't think there's any disagreement about. I am also grateful for the Minister of Labour and Administration's thorough presentation today, and look forward to a big message on the matter. It should not be to suspect me to put anything special in this, other than that I would mention especially church buildings in this context. The minister did not explicitly mention this, but it is a topic that is very topical for many, and that one must look carefully at and also shed light on in this big message. It has been mentioned that many cultural historical properties are not owned by public authorities. It is necessary to assess the means by which owners can operate well and properly. Many put a lot of effort into this area, far beyond what is both commercially and economically sound. And the idealism and self-esteem displayed should be valued by the public. Finally, we must also be aware that the lack of clarification and comprehensive protection plans can hinder development and planning both in public and private terms. An example of the railway works' ingenious planning of their protection plan can be mentioned. These are also moments that would indicate that it is important to make rapid progress in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e310	The centre party thinks it's brilliant that the representative Kosmo has taken up this interpellation. And we wholeheartedly support the wish of the inter-pellant for a comprehensive plan for the management of peaceful and protective buildings, boats, etc. We also wholeheartedly support the need that lies there for some to take responsibility for coordination. The responsibility must be placed, and I think it is absolutely right that it should be placed with the Minister of Labour and Administration. I wish he were even clearer about saying: I take responsibility, I'll make sure that coordination takes place. It is also not difficult to find grips that should be taken right now to move forward in this work. The cultural memory fund must be built up. This is also a challenge in the budget in the autumn. We need to provide better facilities for all those who take on a very high responsibility for preserving buildings and boats already. We can do that, among other things. by granting VAT exemptions, and we can develop the support schemes we have. We definitely need our own arrangements for church buildings. The center party has proposed loan arrangements, but we're prepared to look at other ways of solving this. Crafts traditions need to be better respected, including: through the awareness of lines and bets in higher education. So this is about consciousness, and it's about political will to do something in a field that we're unfortunately far too far behind. I would like to mention one concrete example of how the state is failing so fundamentally in its day-to-day operations. Norway's agricultural high school at Ås has a total of 128 buildings, which are initially located in a magnificent high school area. State buildings have provided an overview of the cost of rehabilitating 36 of the oldest buildings, and that's 750 million. kr. They're talking about immediate action, estimated at 21.5 million. kr. This year's government budget has a total of 1.5 million. kr. Obviously, it's hardly a drop in the ocean. This speaks its clear language in relation to the fact that the state does not do its job daily. Old and beautiful buildings are getting confused. The maturity is very visible both inside and outside, and it is simply a shame. But this isn't just about building protection, it's also about having an indoor climate in school that's acceptable. It's about not being allowed to happen, what's now happening, that rock is falling from the roof. It's actually dangerous to move around some of these buildings. There is also a danger for balconies, for decks that can fall down. We just can't have it like that! It's about caring for important cultural treasures, but it's also about people having good relationships at school. It's about schools not being a danger to people. We have a hard job to do, and we need a common roof.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e325	This is an incredibly important interpellation. And it's important to get started, so that one now can do something more than what we're all talking about is important. It's great that we have so many valuable cultural treasures that can tell our history, and we can proudly carry on. But we never have to put ourselves in such a situation that these values are lost because we don't allow enough resources to keep up with what's built up. As leaders of the Church, Education, and Research Committee for some years, there was almost nothing that frustrated me more than looking at all of our beautiful churches, both stave churches, medieval churches and other churches, which did not get enough resources to keep up with them – because that is necessary. We can be proud of them, but if we can't keep them together, it's kind of wasted that one over a hundred years ago with small funds was able to get these big buildings in place. I don't think there's anyone who can expect the municipalities to do this on their own, with the small funds they have. So there has to be a cooperation between the state, maybe the state and at least the municipalities to make a setup, so that we can take care of these buildings. I don't think this is someone who's likely to blame each other because we haven't allowed enough. We're all going to have to take a joint responsibility that we haven't done. But then we have to move on, and then it's the cooperation that the interpellant points to, that's the important thing, and that's absolutely necessary. We don't have to worry about handicraft traditions, because we know how difficult it was when you were going to start with Nidarosdom, what you had to do to get craftsmen in places that could really do this job. Hence, it is important to take care of the craft traditions. This needs to be incorporated into the big context – with the maintenance, with the traditions for this, and not least that we have to allow money for it. Of course, as many people have done, I would also like to point out that all of the day-to-day constructions that we can't keep up. But the most important thing now is that we get a system to take care of the buildings, and that we make a plan for how we're going to keep them on, to carry on the proud tradition and the beautiful buildings that we have, and that we show up to the tourists when they come, and not least to ourselves. So it's important that the cooperation between the different instances is followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e338	SV is also very pleased with the initiative that Jørgen Kosmo has taken in this matter. We have, in fact, discussed the issue both in the Committee on Energy and the Environment and in the Party. We have also discussed this for many years in an environment outside the house that is concerned about the need to get through, clean up, get something that works. So this initiative is good. I also think there are trends towards a positive response from the Council of State. I also think that is good. But I want to challenge him, as both Kosmo and Haga have done, to take responsibility and make sure that something happens quickly. I wish the Council of State could be very clear on that. In the past, he has the courage to take responsibility in difficult matters, such as: in the case of supervision. SV is also pleased that the Government has finally launched a case of Norwegian cultural memory fund. It's an old SV proposal, which finally a consensual pudding joined, and which this government made sure came on its legs. That's good. But when you do this -- and it's a good way to think about having both the public and the private on the team -- it's a problem that one of them cuts and doesn't give the same priority to the other items in the budget, and that's why the cultural memory policy is completely lost. It's not sustainable. And it's also unsustainable when you think about the poor local economy that many people probably get with this budget as well. Local politicians have to search for places to cut, and this is an area that unfortunately often loses. There are many things to grasp, and not least what several speakers have had, the tradition of craftsmanship and the knowledge that lies there, which is very important. We don't have to do anything but think that here it's actually also a work potential, as there are so many unemployed. It's important to have the knowledge you have in this area that we can lose. This is a great initiative, which I hope the Council of State is very clear that he will follow up. SV wants to be part of that layer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e352	Like all previous speakers, I would like to stress the importance of the interpellation that the representative of Kosmo has traveled. I am, as the leader of a committee where these things have a not insignificant place, want to express my thanks to Jørgen Kosmo for initiating a debate on a topic that has very often been easy to get through in any budgetary context, including in the various professional committees. It is right that the Council of State has expressed in its response, and I was also very pleased to point out the complexity of this issue, both in terms of ownership, in terms of economics, and also in terms of organisation. I think it is right, as the Council of State also stated, that a number of measures need to be taken on a number of fronts to see how best to deal with this issue. Cosmo is involved in the maintenance of the building mass and cultural memories in its interpellation. I might go even a little bit further than Cosmo did, and point out that it's not just the future maintenance that's a demanding challenge, but maybe as much it's re-entering after the maturity that's happened over decades, and doing something about the maturity that's come very far in many of our most important cultural memories. The stave churches are one example, the Industrial Workers Museum may be another example. We know that it will require very large resources, competent labour and a reasonable discussion on how to organise this in the best possible way. It thrives, which is probably also understood by Jørgen Kosmo, a number of different calculation models for what it will actually require of the public and the private in common just to recover the maturity that has come a long way. Then we're up in billions of dollars. So that means that this is very demanding. I do not think we should be so bold and stand on the pulpit in Stortinget today and say that we should deal with this through the budgets. We know that will be very difficult. But I am very pleased with the invitation that Jørgen Kosmo is making to the Stortinget to discuss this. That invitation I would like to encourage an overall big deal to accept, because it was a very important debate that was going on today. Jørgen Kosmo initially said that the primary tasks go ahead, and that he also understands them. To some extent I understand that. The question is whether this should not have actually been a primary task in relation to the values of the type of building mass held by Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e368	First I have to say that I am happy that this matter has come up today. Maintenance of the country's cultural heritage is a neglected chapter in line with many other projects in Norway, which should not be when the country floods with money. We have unemployed people who are capable enough to do the job, and machines and equipment are available. But that's not how society works today, unfortunately. Very often, this is a debate on public buildings. But also many private owners of construction that are affected either by conservation or protection by either owning it voluntarily, they have bought it after it has been saved or protected, or they have inherited it, and then the buildings or whatever it may be are affected by a conservation or protection. What can we do to help these, so that they can take care of the values they possess? We can, among other things: First of all, look at the Law on Construction and Design, which is maybe something square and something strict. Maybe we can look at the economics. Maybe they could get the amount of VAT back. It goes without saying that restoring construction that is either protected or protected is much more expensive, more extensive and more difficult than restoring something that is not affected by it. Often you need professional help to do the restoration right, and it is not always that the professional assistance is in the municipality or county. What you get is impositions and restrictions and maybe not so much help in how to solve the problems. Perhaps the case handler does not have enough knowledge to get into the heart of the matter. The result is that the buildings are due, and we get an undesirable effect. That's why this is one thing we need to work on, both in order to take care of our culture and tradition, and not least our values.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e375	I am glad that the consensus we can observe in this matter is so clear. That also the SV's representative is up and inclined to brag by the Government, I believe that there is a clear and clear expression in this Chamber that there is a great deal of agreement on the objective, not to say the policy, in this important area. We heard from the government council Norman that the government is taking this seriously and is developing strategies to contribute to the achievement of goals and coordination. They should have all the honor of that. It was also this government that established the Cultural Memory Fund after many years of refusal. As for the stave churches and interpellant that were especially concerned with them, I want to refer to the stave church program that is now going on and will go over ten years. Two to three stave churches shall be upgraded in the year, i.e.: our 28 staves in ten years. But we also have 150 medieval churches in stone, often with important cultural values such as wall paintings, etc. needing maintenance and maintenance. So a little comment to Storberget. He is, of course, aware that the Government has also taken seriously the issue of the grant scheme for industrial cultural memories. The Norwegian Vasskraft and Industristad Museum in Tyssedal is a good example in this way. In the next year's budget, it will be fully financed and completed, with a grant volume of nearly 50 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e386	First, I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate. I think this sounds very positive. However, the debate also underlines the broad and broad scope of this, and how many areas of society this affects. I therefore repeat my prayer to the Council of State: this you must push in all your strength, otherwise it rots at the root because there are so many interests out there and going. I want to mention that I am so lucky – most people in Norway are so lucky – that we are allowed to travel on vacation. This year I actually drove northwards, followed the Helgeland coast and was inside the Alstadhaug church, where Petter Dass was driving at worst. There was a red ribbon around the church on the outside, out on the cemetery, because it fell roofstones down. The roof was so bad that they had to have a band around to protect people from lasting damage by moving near the church. I called up last week to hear how it went – there was nothing done. Of course, the oil and energy minister thinks it's not raining enough. He thinks it should count even more. But at least it's calculated enough that this roof will be destroyed in a couple of years, if it should be so. It wouldn't have cost a lot of money if the Council of State, for example. would have been willing to use labour market measures to rehabilitate such things, in proportion to the cost of the permanent destruction that has now taken place. But this is hundreds of examples of. It shows that it's urgent if we're not going to keep wasting our society's resources. I believe that at a time of such high unemployment, it should have been possible to focus on investing in cultural-historical buildings, and at least on the maintenance of these and on training programmes, instead of letting people go free. That is an opportunity, and it has been done before with very good results. I agree that the stave church program is good. It goes over ten years, but it goes so small. There's so little money being spent on this program that I fear that the lack of maintenance on other stave churches and other medieval churches will lead to the situation actually as bad when this stave church program is finished as it did when it started. There is too little pressure on the matter in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e397	Let me first point out that it is very gratifying that the representative Kosmos' involvement in the matter is so strong that he even addresses personally to the Council of State from the pulpit. It's good he doesn't sit in the president's chair. I fully agree with everyone who says that we greatly appreciate the fact that Jørgen Kosmo has addressed this matter. The debate, if you can call it a debate, has been very useful, with very important input to our work. But there are three things we should remember as a background, and which I think are important. One is that Norway is a young country in terms of awareness of cultural protection. This means that awareness of the need is much newer in Norway than in other countries, and, therefore, much more remains to be done. We have to remember that. The second thing I think we should remember is that in Norway, we tend to suffer from a belief that all problems will be solved by investing – that we can invest ourselves out of the need for ongoing operation and maintenance. It's riddled us a little bit like a bore, and it probably has led us to generally spend too much money on new investments in relation to what we spend on maintenance and operations, even regardless of whether these are cultural-historical properties. This must, I think, both government and greatness do something about general. The third thing, and I think we should remember, is that we've tended to view cultural work as something that's nice to do when we don't have anything more important to do. This is why there has been a tendency to, for example: work on protecting cultural memories is something we do when we have unemployment, and then we forget it when we don't have it. I want to very strongly warn against that line. We need to have a systematic work for cultural memory protection all the time, and there must not be a switch-off where we use cultural protection as an employment measure and forget it when unemployment goes down again. So to the direct challenges. I would like to have the entire cultural memory area in Norway, but I don't think that's right. Cultural memory protection is such a major and cross-sectoral issue that it belongs in the department responsible for environmental protection in Norway, i.e. the Ministry of the Environment. And it's the Minister for the Environment who's going to present the big message about cultural memories, where what we're doing on the side of the state, is also going to be involved. I have full confidence that we have an Environment Minister who can do a much better job in this field than the Minister of Labour and Administration can do. What is my responsibility and my department's responsibility are the state cultural memories. And I think we have a big enough job in making a good plan and good organization of state cultural memories so that it can employ the Minister of Labour and Administration in the priority moments it should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e414	The President is quite sure that the representative Kosmo knows that all speeches must be addressed to the President. The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is going to be equal to 1. Then went to manage it
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e433	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who draw on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e442	This is a matter which passed the State Council last Friday, a matter which the Committee examined and gave its opinion on on Tuesday, and on which the Parliament is to decide today. The proposal is that the Coast Guard should hire a hauling vessel to be used for oil protection in East Finland. It is also briefed that the defense undertakes to make two boats available from West Finland and down to South Troms. In this case, the Committee has unanimously chosen to place a decisive emphasis on the fact that some oil protection and some towing capacity in the northern regions will represent a significant improvement in relation to the current situation and will therefore support the Government’s proposal for a decision in the case. A majority of the Committee considers it necessary to criticise the Council of State because of the short deadline. If the tugboat was to be ready from 1 November, we had to deal with the matter today. This means that the Committee has not been sufficiently able to assess whether the measures proposed by the Ministry are adequate in relation to the threat we face. The threat we are facing is also a little bit difficult to deal with how the department itself assesses. We've read a lot in the media about that threat. The World Natural Fund has this fall presented a report that says we can face a situation with thousands of oil tankers this year and 150 million tonnes of crude oil along the coast by 2010. Bellona operates with a prognosis of approx. 10 oil tankers in the week along the coast by 2007. It is unclear to me what kind of forecasts the Ministry of Fisheries is operating with in relation to this development. Of course, it is also crucial in relation to the amount of tug capacity needed. I am also not aware of, and do not have a response to today, what the response time is with the capacity proposed by the department, if we get a thought going somewhere off the coast. On 25 March the Stortinget unanimously adopted: ‘The Government is asked to provide assessments and concrete measures in the context of the revised state budget to strengthen the towing boat capacity in the northern regions.’ It was a decision that was just taken to face this threat. It did not happen in the revised state budget, but at the end of June there was a Russian supertanker operating 19 nautical miles outside the North Cape. The boat had had an engine failure. The nearest tugboat was ten hours away. Fortunately, the crew on board got started on the engine again. In Finnmark Dagblad we were able to read about the super tanker "Moscow". Janne Johnsen, an employee of the department, says in a comment to Finnmark Dagblad: ‘The Russian super tanker ‘Moscow’ operating outside North Cape created hectic activity in the department’s offices.’ She admits that this was a thought arouser. It could have been too late for that thinker to come. So it was a think-tank for the department four months after the Stortinge had decided that the towing boat capacity should be strengthened. The Committee has traveled and seen oil protection in the United States, Canada and Australia. In particular, it made the impression when we in Canada learned that with regard to the shipment between Alaska and the United States, Canadian authorities require it to take 150 nautical miles off the coast. We've just been able to raise the territorial limit from 4 to 12 nautical miles. It's clear that 12 nautical miles require an extremely short response time, and I can't say today that we're sure to make it. I would refer, on behalf of the majority, to the proposal for Decision III referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e474	It's an important thing we're dealing with. At the same time, there is one thing that the majority of the committee is dealing with with with a certain discomfort, because the time that was given at the disposal was so extremely short. You are involved in something that you are not sure fully answer the questions that you have asked in advance. It says in the setting that we've spent one day on this. The truth is, we did it over the table. The time we spent was more of a formal nature, we had to deal with the criticism of the proceedings. Because we put a few hours into it, we can be liberal enough to say that we've got one day at our disposal. We have received suggestions for containment that I personally do not feel comfortable with. It may be that the proposal for containment presented by the department is correct, but in a situation like this, I do not think it is particularly pleasant to be involved in an invasion of which the consequences cannot be easily seen. I mention that some of the money being redispatched goes from the warning systems or the identification systems, which are a vital part of this whole problem. And then you could say that yes, but in the short time that applies, it's possible that this is completely OK. That's when we in the majority have chosen to say that it's possible that it's OK, but we're definitely not safe. The majority of the Committee suggests that we have to have a long-term model for dealing with oil protection in the area. This is a serious signal from the majority. We want a long-term model, but we want it in place as soon as possible. The minority in the committee says that it is perfectly OK to include it in the national transport plan. This is not a good answer to the seriousness of the situation. That we are in favour of a temporary solution over six months is definitely not a signal from the majority that we have a good time. There are needy people who make us trade. But we want the model in place a lot earlier. If it were to be the government's attitude to wait for the National Transport Plan, it would be as if you weren't taking the problem seriously enough. The fear of Murmansk oil is an environmental risk, for various reasons. It is also an environmental risk because we have not yet established good enough agreements so that the Russian boats both as boats and with the equipment they have can ensure good enough monitoring in the area, where the freighters and from Norwegian side those monitoring the transport are well on track. The representative Sørensen also expressed the concern that we have extended the territorial limit to 12 miles. It doesn't make the problem any less. My conclusion is: we are in these six months with discomfort. However, it should be acknowledged by both the Government Parties and the Government that they are making a promise that a long-term model of how to deal with oil protection in the area will be available as soon as possible and before the debate on the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e493	There is broad agreement on the actual political grip being made in this setting. The government is following up previous policies in relation to the maritime environment forecasting and the political commitment that has been in the near past on this topic. We value the Government's action, and I'm sure the Council of State will explain the time spent in the processes that have led up to this conclusion of the contract. The exposure has been large to put this in place as early as possible, so that we can meet the challenges that winter could have in this area. I'm not going to go so much in detail on this from my side, just dwell a little bit on the majority's worry about scarce time. In any case, the majority have found it appropriate to take the decision requested by the Government. The Progress Party and others in the majority also have concerns about the budgetary impact. Although the formal processing has been short, as has been said here, the document has nevertheless been known in the landfill environment more than these hours it is referred to. I'm really excited about whether the requirement for quality assurance in budgetary positions in the future will be as large in these batches as it seems to be now. I would remind you that we have dealt with an innumerable Document No. 8 proposals, e.g. from the Progress Party with, at my discretion, poor quality assurance and billions of budget implications. So I allow myself to suggest that in a shorter time, in the time that I have been in Stortinget at least, it has been moved on larger amounts with less quality assurance. Then I can also give an explanation of vote when I have the floor. It is not so easy to see the big difference between the government party's remark and the III proposal in the vote. It should therefore be noted that there should be a right of unanimous support for that proposal when the matter comes up for voting. There is also treatment of similar issues under other issues, and I could well challenge the political environment to perhaps focus on the national transport plan as a correct and important document in order to get a broad overview of the oil protection perspectives that lie both in this case and in time-related issues of the same nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e504	I think it is an amazing approach the representative Hoddevik has when he says that Storting has known about this matter for a long time. Very familiar was this matter referred to Stortinget on Friday, and it is not such that the Stortinget will deal with matters based on rumors or the possibility that a matter will come to Stortinget. I think we're going to deal with things more seriously than that. Today, maritime traffic along the coast is high, and the number of vessels is increasing rapidly in the northern regions. The background for this is the transport of oil from Russia. This transport will accelerate to an extent based on the need for new oil supplies from places other than the Middle East to the United States. The quality of these boats is mixed and not always as good. Of course, as this activity increases, the need for towing boat capacity is also increasing. This has been said by Stortinget during the treatment of Innst. S. No 161 for 2002-2003, St.meld. No 12 for 2001-2002, Clean and rich seas, where the Storting adopted: ‘The Government is asked to provide assessments and concrete measures in the context of the revised state budget to strengthen the towing boat capacity in the northern regions.’ It wasn't done. The background for this was, of course, experience from, among other things. The ‘John R’ and the ‘Green Ålesund’ spills. It shows that the response time in the event of an accident must be minimal, and that there is a short space for action from accident to incident, until the situation is out of control. Since an accident can happen anywhere and at any time, I believe it is particularly gratifying that this has come into place now. Consequently, I will place the decisive emphasis on the fact that some oil preparedness and some tug-boat capacity in the northern regions will constitute a significant improvement to the current situation, and will therefore support the Government's proposal for a decision in the case. Having said that, I would like to recall the decision taken in connection with the treatment of Innst. S. No 161, on clean and rich seas, asking for both assessments and concrete actions to be included in the revised national budget. To me, the harvest storms this year seem to have come as a surprise to the Council of State. I didn't expect that, especially considering where the council came from. It is very critical that the committee's ability to deal with the matter has been reduced to one day, and as the Labour Party representative was involved, it was actually not a whole day, but a few hours. I believe this shows that the Storting is not taken solemnly by everyone, and it is in fact a degradation of the Storting to any sandfighting organ. It's not acceptable. The Committee has been deprived of the possibility to check whether the draft decision by the Council of State covers the actual need to meet the challenges posed by oil cargo in the northern regions. Furthermore, the Committee has the opportunity to check thoroughly whether these budgetary re-priorities lead to undesirable effects. This is in stark contrast to the wish of the President at the opening of the Storting that the Storting should go to his work with thoroughness. This possibility is largely excluded from the size of the population when the treatment is done in such a way as this. Finally, since the contract expires in the spring, I will inform the Council of State that until next year the harvest storms will also come to the harvest. So do they in the coming years. Therefore, it is important that long-term contracts and contracts are concluded as soon as possible, so that we have this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e524	Let me start by saying that it is not ideal for Stortinget to have so little time to deal with matters as in this case. But the massive criticism, particularly now that the Progress Party is coming here, seems to me to be falling on its own unfairness. It has been said in the context of the case that we have to deal with, that the actual needs should be returned. Here we are talking about emergency measures, and emergency measures based on the situation we're up against. I think there's reason to praise more in this case. Firstly, there is reason to commend the rapporteur, who threw himself around in a short time and quickly got the matter through in the committee, and who in a good way presented the facts in the matter. I'm not going to comment on that. I also think there is every reason to commend the Minister for Fisheries, who has really speeded up an important matter – a certain investigation period is also required in the department before a case is brought up. In addition, a wish to get this done quickly, which is why we have a little shorter time. The growing oil transport in coastal and marine areas outside North Norway has become a special challenge for us, but I must say that some of the forecasts presented on the number of ships, and I hope the Minister of Fisheries will also point to, fall on the calculation used. I think that Bellana here is closer to reality than you are to the other thing that was presented here by the case-rapporteur. In the north, there is a significant activity related to the exploration and extraction of petroleum resources. In particular, what is now happening on the Russian side, both on the continental shelf and on the mainland, leads to an increase in the transport of dangerous goods along the coast. At the same time, we have invaluable marine resources and considerable fishing activity in the area, which could be significantly damaged if environmental considerations are not properly taken care of. That's exactly why we have this case on the table today. In addition, I would like to point out that the Government has taken a number of measures to improve safety and coastal preparedness. The size has recently decided to extend the territorial limit from four to twelve nautical miles. The Coastal Agency has sent out proposals for instructions to the Hearing Officer and a network for the reception of AIS signals is being set up to cover the entire coast during 2004. Further proposed by the Government of St.prp. No 65 for 2002-2003, additional appropriations and re-priorities to the 2003 government budget, to establish a traffic centre for North Norway in Vardø, and in this year's budget, there is money for planning and projects. Then we are at the point we have on the table today, which concerns tugboats. I am pleased that, despite the short duration of treatment, a Joint Committee on Transport supports the Government's proposal to hire three tow vessels to strengthen preparedness and security in the north. This is not a permanent solution. The long-term model of towing boat capacity in the northern regions shall be returned by the Government. For the Christian People's Party, it would have been natural to come back to it in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan – it's fairly fast, it also – it comes in the spring. But, of course, we support the whole proposal that is to be adopted, and then we will see if it becomes a separate matter or if it comes in connection with the transport plan. In addition to what we are now dealing with, an intention agreement was reached in August between the Ministry of Fisheries and the Federation of Fishermen for cooperation to improve the tug capacity in North Norway. The compound represents at the lower edge of 100 seagoing fishing vessels with towing power. The intention of the IA is to assess the possibilities for improving and exploiting and coordinating private and public resources. Overall, this shows a strong commitment from the Government to strengthen preparedness in the north. We cannot afford accidents or accidents associated with the transport of oil in our most vulnerable areas. Oil beer will not only cause irreversible damage to the environment and ecology, it will also affect the basis for the important value creation in the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e539	It may seem strange that a matter where the whole committee agrees on the realities leads to such a long debate. However, when the committee is given a day to prepare and present its position on the matter, it must lead to reactions. I thought it would be a bit strange when the government party in the setting uses such mild formulations as that such a short processing time is unusual and not ideal. No, it would only be lacking if this were a normal and good procedure. It is also a little strange when the government parties write that the committee has nevertheless received sufficient information. I thought the majority should consider what is sufficient information to deal with a case. The case-handling time did not allow for thorough evaluation and clarifying questions. There might be a need here, as in a lot of other things. Others have previously been asked a number of questions that we would like to know in more detail, such as Heidi Sørensen, the reaction time for the tugboats that are now to be placed in the area. And is the financing solution the best and the ideal? It was also a question that could have been the basis for looking at it more closely. Then it's not every day that I'm in agreement with the representatives from the Progress Party, but I have to support the representative from the Progress Party who reminds us that the fall storms are coming in the autumn, and now we're going to the late fall and winter with a chance of storm. We know that it increases the risk of accidents and accidents in traffic along the coast. The situation with a lack of tug capacity and a lack of oil protection along the coast of North Norway has been pointed out many times in this room. A solution to these challenges has been called for a long time. Neither can it be said that things have happened in good time, as representatives from the government party try to produce it. But when that is said, it is positive that, after all, we have got a case with proposals for a short-term improvement of the situation. The seriousness of the missing tug capacity in North Norway means that the Central Party will support the arrangement of the Government of St.prp during the short processing period. No 6 for 2003-2004. With the solutions that have been outlined, and that the case-speaker went closer to the inside, we get a short-term constraint. But we expect the department to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a more long-term solution, both in terms of oil protection and towing capacity for the coast of North Norway. I would particularly like to refer to the last point, point III, of the motion for a resolution in the vote, which is a very important part of the vote. Now it looks like it's going to be the agreement, which I think is very positive. It's important that we work closely with III, and that the committee gets it back at a time when we can get a more thorough treatment than what we're experiencing with the things we're dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e554	Then the president perceives that there is a fairly broad deal about the fall storms coming in the fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e557	I'm not going to concentrate on the harvest storms. It's been said enough about them. But it's useful to masturbate. I am slightly abandoned when representatives from the Progress Party talk about the reputation they have heard that tankers are going off the coast. I have stood on this pulpit, time after time, and said that there are tankers off the coast. It's definitely not a rumor. It might be considered as wrong, that what's being said from this pulpit, is not true, but I'm now standing here, I'm now here. What I'm saying is, as I think, true, and then they get to believe what they want. They're not rumors. I have said that we have no oil protection in Norway, and I stand by that. We don't have it. We're getting a tug capacity, and I'm glad. I have no difficulty in voting in favour of this proposal. Like I said, it's good to masturbate, but it's terrible that it's going to take so many years. We have an accident documented with the oil tanker Prestige. There were 60,000 tons of oil disappearing in the sea, and they're still struggling with the oil outside Spain. Can you think of the accident that is taking place in North Norway if a tanker loses? In 2005, three fully loaded tankers shall pass down along the coast at one point. It takes three days from north to south. We have nine full tankers off the coast and nine inches on the way up. 'John R' was empty when disaster struck. Everyone is shifting responsibility. There were twelve departments that pushed away responsibility. They wouldn't have anything to do with it. Think about – 18 tankers in 2005 and we don't have tug capacity until now. Finally, it's taken seriously, and I've had to do this for many years. The Ministry of Fisheries has concluded an agreement with the fishing boats. Yeah, it was just supposed to be missing. Have you heard about force majeure in the room? If you have not heard about it, it is such that all boats can go to assistance if there is any damage, and it should just be lacking that fishing boats should not go to assistance. It's okay that an agreement is written, but they don't have tow hooks that are approved by the Maritime Directorate. Nor has the rescue company, they have not approved the towing hook. But you can go to the assistance. However, the skipper on the boat may refuse to receive assistance, if we do not decide that a harpoon or a dragonfly will be fired on board that boat. The skipper on that tanker can refuse to receive assistance until he reaches the rocks and pollutes the coast – no, he does not pollute, he asphalts the coast with mycassals. We have several institutions that can handle the drag. We have the Rescue Company, we have the Coast Guard, and we have coastal radio stations. It's just a little monkey with the Coast Guard, for example. - They don't have money. We decide they don't need money. But we're introducing VAT, so they have to pay money to the state. In Blackland, they have two and a half ships all year round that they can ship at sea, because they don't have any more money for them. They have two and a half vessels lying ashore. They have five vessels in total, but they can't afford to ship them at sea. So these boats have to drag. So, the Ministry of Fisheries says we're going to have a sailor. We're going to pull in the ship's traffic within 12 nautical miles. Are you aware of the critical phase between getting machine damage and getting the tower on board? A boat is about two miles an hour, and the nearest member is eight miles from land, after the new proposal – that is, four hours from the boat. Then it is not useful with towing capacity, if there are not boats that at force majeure go and take the towed right away. But the skipper can refuse. We need a department that has the full responsibility for everything that's going on on the coast. Whether it's the Ministry of Fisheries or the Ministry of Transport, I don't care. I would like to see that it was the Ministry of Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e578	I am pleased that a joint committee joins the Government's proposal on rental and cost recovery related to the North Norway towing vessel for the last two months of the year. I have also noted the comments and comments of the Committee and of the participants in the debate on the short term. Until then, it is said that there has been a strong desire on the part of the Government to put this into operation from 1 November, and that that is the background for it. If you wanted to implement it at a later stage, you would of course get better time, but I note that there is a broad consensus about the desire to further strengthen the towing boat capacity. Let me hurry to add that it is not that there is no tug capacity already. I also recall that in the 2004 draft budget we are proposing to continue the lease-in of this ship, as well as that we are reporting on several actions that have been undertaken and will be implemented, in order to strengthen maritime safety and preparedness. Then, as of 17 October, we were given a coastguard ship, Normand Drum, a large tugboat that has been launched by the Coast Guard and in cooperation with the Coast Guard, which is now patrolling the Finnmark coast and is currently in East Finland. In addition, the vessel we are dealing with today is leased by ‘Scandi Beta’ – subject to Storting’s decision today – could be in place with a base in Honningsvåg and patrols on the coast from 1 November. Then the defense has also undertaken to further strengthen the towing boat capacity in the area outside West Finland and North Troms from 1 November. I want to praise the Defense, which has shown great willingness to cooperate with the Coastal Agency to find good solutions to remedy the risk that has, of course, increased dramatically with the large number of vessels now in existence. The defence has also undertaken to have a towboat capacity outside the West and South Troms, and from 1 October a vessel in the North Cape class has been continuously patrolled outside the West and Troms, and at present the coastguard vessel ‘North Cape’ is there. As I said, we also set out in the budget proposal for these things – to finance the whole year's lease-in of the vessel that we are dealing with today. The majority will have a new opportunity to address it in the ordinary budgetary procedure. But our wish has been to put this into operation as of 1 November, and I am pleased that a total amount of money has been agreed, and that we were willing to take the short procedure as the rapporteur, among others. of the Committee of the Regions. Then it is also that the future need will be affected by what kind of solutions may come when Snow White is in operation. There is a lack of private tug capacity in the north that makes you need strong government involvement. In other parts along the coast there is no need to do the same, because there is a towing boat capacity related to private operation. In addition, as has been explained, we have entered into an agreement of intent to involve the largest fishing vessels in a first line standby and, in that context, we have been able to identify the equipment on board to enable them to operate in a given situation, in addition to the fact that any fishing vessel, commercial vessel, Hurtigruta and other vessels along the coast could be involved in a crisis situation. The government has also started to build a traffic centre in Finland, in Vardø, which is an important part of total preparedness. We have also started a good dialogue with the Russian authorities to see the new measures linked to Russian oil transport and look it up against a mutual warning and information system for total oil transport. It is also worth noting that we need to have a continuous upgrade and balancing of the preparedness in relation to the traffic that may come in the future. Let me also remind you that we have drawn up an overview of emergency ports and coastal sites to be implemented from 1 February next year in line with the EU directive in this area. The experience with Prestige has shown that shipping is not always the best solution to the greatest possible extent at sea. As the Stortinget is also aware, it has been decided to extend the territorial border from 1 January next year, and in that context also the regulation on required sailing managers. We have built up a significant oil defence pool on the coast and prioritised North Norway in this context, while maintaining close dialogue with both the Rescue Company and the oil companies to involve more resources. I will follow up the decision that is being taken today, as regards reporting back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e597	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e600	Of course, when the majority have been involved in dealing with the matter, it is because we understand the need for this to be completed by 1 November. And in this way, we're going to get rid of the seriousness of the situation. The concern – which I have tried to say a little about – is that the government parties in the committee obviously do not complete this, but express the desire that the ministry follow up the matter in the national transport plan for 2006-2015, while the majority say that this must be followed up immediately. And I'm a little uncertain about what answer the Council of State has now given, because the proposal in the 2004 budget does not mention this theme within the idea of a long-term model. They describe it in a different way, but not within the long-term model. So the question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State itself does not feel the need for this to be followed up immediately and that it is not possible to wait to deal with this in the context of the national transport plan 2006–2015. Otherwise, I was especially inspired by the consensus that has now developed that harvest comes every harvest, and with harvest comes harvest storms. I think we can make a decision on that in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e607	It's harvest, it was five degrees this morning.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e613	Of course, you can be concerned if it is such that several of the guttering representatives have not been aware that the harvest storms come in the autumn. We've been aware of that in the department, and that's why we've taken action. We have wanted to further strengthen preparedness and get the additional vessel going already in the autumn, in addition to the preparedness on the Finnmark coast and along the coast of North Norway. I agree that the seriousness of the overall size of this case has materialised in the form of a quick procedure that allows it to be put in place. On the part of the Government, we have outlined next year's budgetary proposals and some of the measures that go beyond them. As far as the longer term is concerned, it has been intended by the Government to return to it in the national transport plan because it is a matter to be submitted already to spring and dealt with by the Stortinget, and it would be natural to see it in that context – as has also been stated in several lots. I perceive that I have a gliding mouth to assess whether it is this or some other form of feedback to Stortinget that will be most suitable for taking care of this over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e622	The council had a clear statement on the content of the matter, and everyone agreed that something had to be done with this. But I think the Council of State is taking this very easily with the processing time. He says he is very pleased that a case has been presented this autumn and has been decided, so that this tug boat can be put into service from 1 November, and that everyone in the department is aware that the harvest is in the autumn. But I wonder if it is such that one should deal with a matter at the same time as it should be implemented. So when you have a thing that's important to the coast because of the harvest storms, you have to deal with it at the same time as the harvest storms set in. And you don't take Inner. S. No 161 on a rich sea seriously, where it was decided that this matter would come under the revised national budget? Why didn't it come?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e629	I repeat that I am very pleased that an overall increase agrees with the Government that this is a good measure, this is a necessary measure in relation to the situation that has developed dramatically in terms of increasing traffic along the Norwegian coast. So it's just that the Storting has announced, among other things. in the context of the revised national budget, where it was clearly stated that the pace was not satisfied. We took the consequences, and in July we started the process of renting additional tug capacity in line with the analyses made by the Coast Guard and others about the need, which are described by three vessels on the North Norwegian coast. We then sent out the tender in August and had to comply with the EEA Agreement's rules on tenders and follow the procedure laid down there. This has made it impossible for us to make progress in the past. We wanted to get it operational from 1 November. That's what the Storting agrees with. Of course, it would have been possible to take a different date and give us better time. But we wanted this to be implemented as early as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e634	I register that the Council of State says that the tender was sent out in August. Perhaps it was the hectic activity that the department representative described in Finnmark Dagblad on 27 June, that we realized that we now have to send out the bid – before the harvest storms start. That offer could have started working on the day after the Stortinget decided that the towing boat capacity would be available. And then I agree with the Council of State that this is a good step. The problem is that I have no nubbeschanse to assess how well that measure is, when the department does not explain the state budget, either now, rather is out earlier and even says something about the extent of the problem, makes forecasts for the number of boats and response time, or tells us exactly where these boats are going. When can we get such a composite overview? Does the Council of State today know anything about the response time from 1 November this autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e641	The wish to have three tugboats with large enough tug capacity on the coast of North Norway is based on analyses carried out by the Coastal Works and underlying departments, and on the mission of the Coastal Directorate. It is then calculated a response time that is satisfactory in relation to the risk that may be present, but giving an exact response time on any vessel is completely impossible, because it depends on where these vessels are located. The experience with ‘Moscow’, to which reference is made, shows that there was a safe towing capacity to reach the Hagarist. It would also have been if it had been spherical. So, on the basis of an overall assessment by the Coastal Works and by the Department, the towing boat capacity obtained from the Storting decision and the vessel will be operational from 1 November, in addition to the Defence vessel and in addition to the shipping operations that take place along the coast. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e648	I have noticed that in St.prp. No 6 says: ‘In the longer term, the Ministry of Fisheries will consider a longer-term model...’ I choose to interpret this so that it is not just an assessment, but that a long-term model should also be implemented. And then in the proposition, there's a list of elements that can go into the long-term model, and there's a lot of people in the debate about using the drag force of the ocean-going fishing fleet in the northern regions. I am, of course, in agreement with the Council of State when he says that one should use the resources that one has, but I would like the Council of State to elaborate a little more on how one thinks about the fishing fleet's capacity. It is well that for periods the fishing fleet will be on the field and thus not be available for assignment at all times. Can the Council say a little bit more about what he thinks when it comes to the fishing fleet? Should there be one of the important elements in the currently active scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e660	Of course, as the representative of Ringstad says, the government has announced that we are assessing the long-term measures and a long-term model. It is of course a matter of having an opportunity to implement it. It will also depend on the decision of the Storting, not least in budgetary terms. In the case of fishing vessels, we entered into an intention agreement with the Federation of Fishermen, which has approx. 100 vessels with a significant towing boat capacity. A significant number of these vessels are located in the Barents Sea and in the northern fishing regions, and are in this respect in close proximity to the coastal traffic. Of course, any vessel will be able to be involved in a given situation to be in first line standby and to be able to take a tow on board and thus prevent drift until a professional towing vessel is put in place. What we have been aiming to do is — by training crews on board these fishing vessels and placing equipment on board some of them — to have the capacity and competence to intervene. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e670	I have a question for the Minister for Fisheries, but I will come to that conclusion. We have some depots, and it's decided that those depots will last for so long, where there are oil lances. The only special built vessel in the world – yes, I said in the world – I have been on board. I have bala since 1998 to get aboard such a ship. I guess that's the time it takes to draw, finance and build a ship. There is extraction in the Barents Sea today. That's what oil traffic is all about. Then it becomes a little strange to go over Karl Johan and then meet Greenpeace on the other side, where they say, the oil companies out of the Barents Sea! It is strange that the Ministry of Fisheries is investigating the pilot-in-command when we know that the time from the ships gets a response to their notice and until they are hauled on board is critical. Does the Ministry of Fisheries do anything to prevent the skipper from refusing to accept a tower, thus polluting and asphalting the coast? What is being done concretely?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e681	Under international maritime law, we have the opportunity to intervene when the authorities consider that the risk is so high. We also did so in a specific case outside the Norwegian coast this fall, where the ship did not ask us to intervene, but where the authorities did so. We intend to follow that up on the basis of an assessment in the individual cases. In the case of the other matter raised by the representative, namely the depots – I realized that it was the depots of bilges and the kind we have lying down, we have set up new depots in Båtsfjord, Honningsvåg, Skjervøy and Sortland during the year. In addition, we will establish a further six coastal intermediate depots. And during 2004, without prejudice to the budgetary procedure, we will upgrade the main deposits so that also bilges and the preparedness for the rest of the deposits are further enhanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e688	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e693	I don't think I'm going to take 3 minutes. The members of the Defence Committee have discovered this matter today. It also concerns the Defence, and it concerns the Defence Committee to a great extent, at least the part of the case concerning the use of two defence vessels for oil protection. We were partly informed by the Minister of Defence during the debate on the MTBs on Tuesday that the KNM ‘Valkyria’ would be put into operation. It was probably for the part that covers West Finland and North Troms. With effect from 1 November, it says here, and I assume it will be operational on 1 November, while KV “Nordkap” is already in operation. It is not new that the defence in given situations may be an operational resource for other preparedness for all types of civil protection. But as this case looks, these two vessels are temporarily inserted. The Ministry of Defence's budget proposal states that one vessel is to be used by the Coast Guard until March 2004 and the other out of 2004. This is, of course, something that has not yet been dealt with, because it is in the budget proposal. Among the conditions that I had at least intended to ask our Council of State about were the use of these vessels. The second is that in a longer-term strategy for oil protection, the role of defence must also be integrated into a model and not just acute. I understand you've had an acute need here, and I think it's okay. But I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Defence's budget proposal states: ‘In readiness and in war, the Coast Guard resources shall be transferred to the Coast Guard.’ So it has to be transferred to the Marine Defense with immediate effect. Now there's hardly a war, and there's probably no other crisis either, although you don't know that, but in that case these two vessels are going back to the Naval Defense immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e708	I record that the Council of State says that the response time to the tugboats is satisfactory, but he has no number for it. It is quite obvious that it will of course vary from place to place and where the boat is, but it is quite common to operate with an average response time. That's what we have to assume when we're going to evaluate the risk along the coast. I also record that I am not getting a response to what the Council of State or the Ministry estimates as predictions for the development of the cargo in the future. Until 1 August, 119 oil tankers had passed along the coast. The budget for Bellona is 520 in 2007. The World Natural Fund is estimated at 1 000 in 2010. It is important to know the extent to which we are going to assess the overall risk, and also to be able to say something about whether this preparedness that we are going to have in place from 1 November this year is satisfactory or not. I record that the Coastal Agency has sent out on consultation proposals to the Head of Mission within our territorial waters. The committee has been in Canada, as I said, and there oil tankers from Alaska are being sent 150 nautical miles off the coast. I don't think 150 nautical miles would be appropriate for us, because then you would just end up in the ice, and there wouldn't be any cargo. I register that Bellona recommends 35 nautical miles, and I see that Greenpeace has recommended 50. I have also registered that the Ministry of the Environment has taken the initiative to make the Barents Sea a so-called PSSA area – that means a particular sensitive sea area – that allows us to have jurisdiction beyond 12 nautical miles. Examples in these areas have been seen in Australia – Great Barrier Reef. It will at least take a few years to get such an international process through. And until such a case may be in place, it will be particularly important to have an overview of the tug capacity, because that means that the boats will go closer to land than we could possibly require if we get the Barents Sea to become such a PSSA area. I would like the Council of State to confirm that he shares the view of the Minister for the Environment that this work is of great importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e717	This debate has had some strange entries. There's something Norwegian about that if things come, it's all right, but they're always too late. There's always some negative starting point that you can figure out. Otherwise, the debate has been about this coming too early because we have had too much time. Both arguments have been put forward by the opposition. What is at the heart of this matter is a risk assessment of a very important element, namely the special oil transport from Russia and around our coast. There's the big dimensions. And if this is going to go wrong, there will be proportions of the challenges that we're going to face, which will be completely incomprehensible. That is why the debate is very important, and it deserves the attention it has received, with the exceptions I mentioned at the outset. So we now need to strengthen maritime safety and preparedness, and that's why the government has wanted to hurry through this tug capacity and get an assessment of it. If you don't think it was a proper way to bring the matter up, then the opposition can say that it's not fair, and that we have to wait. We clearly agree, however, that by 1 November we should have it in place, and then these elements have had to give up. We come back to a risk assessment and a capacity assessment, and not least this by integrating the private fleet into a standby. The Committee shall have every reason to come back to it, and it shall do so, because that matter is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e728	I take the floor because I noticed that the State Council of Ludvigsen said in its statement that the reason for the matter coming so quickly, with such short deadlines, was that they wanted a standby in place on 1 November. However, there is still an impression that there is a deficit, that the Council of State and the Ministry are in arrears when it comes to getting up to date with a proper preparedness. And that impression is definitely created when we read what is in the revised national budget. Because it says that the minister on his desk had a report that concluded that tollboat capacity should be rented to cover East Finland and West Finland. Despite that report and for that reason, appropriations were not proposed for that capacity in the revised national budget. But then there is a confession, after the revised national budget, which results in the matter we have on the table today. It is very tempting to conclude that the recognition came after having the uncontrolled – we can say – situation with the Russian oil tanker ‘Moscow’. When you first discovered that you had to give full gas here, because there may be serious things happening here when the harvest storms occur. The minister admitted it indirectly when he said in his post that they wanted to proceed in the matter because the Stortinget thought it was too slow. It is probably also an indirect admission by the Minister today that there has not been any clear enough, and that it was a mistake not to propose additional appropriations for the purpose of the revised national budget, as proposed by the SV, the Centre Party, the Progress Party and the Coastal Party. I hope that today's debate will at least give the ministry a clear signal that you have to be here in advance, here you have to wait, and that you have to get a separate case early in 2004 to tell us how you have thought that coastal preparedness will be in North Norway in the years to come. Making this happen as a matter of national transport plan is not going to be good enough, so the national transport plan will apply from 2006 and the years to come, and it will not be that long before Norway has a satisfactory coastal preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e737	I am recording that several people are concerned about the short period of time they received in Stortinget. I just repeat that it was a strong wish from our side to get the tug-boat capacity running from November 1, but neither I nor the Government are in such a position that we can order the Storting on the processing time. So I am pleased that you have agreed with the Government that you should have it in place from 1 November. The representative of Nybakk, as is right, stresses that in a given crisis situation, these vessels, such as the Defence, must, with great goodwill, have made their way back to the Defence. It is clear that in such a crisis situation, much of what is going on along the coast will be in a very special situation. It may also affect the number of vessels that will patrol if such a situation occurs. In the case of the sailing manager, whom the representative Sørensen had in mind, there are different perceptions of this. There are different perceptions of how much traffic will be in a short-term and a long-term race. We have taken into account several analyses that have been carried out and that the three vessels that are now in readiness will be satisfactory to meet the traffic that is in progress. And so it is that we constantly assess whether traffic is increasing, and whether it requires extra resources. That is also why we have announced that it is an analysis that we will come back to on a later occasion, which the Committee is also concerned about. As far as the Ministry of the Environment and the PSSA is concerned, it is clear that they are carrying out an important assessment, but it is also worth noting that on our part we are assessing this with so-called routing, which we have every opportunity to contribute to, outside the territorial limit, regardless of the PSSA. All of these relationships are part of the assessments that we are now going to make in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e748	The debate on the matter on the supplementary agenda is closed. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e756	Let's go to voting. In Case No. 1 on today's map, no. 8, no voting theme is available. The President will then deal with the matter on the supplementary agenda, Agenda No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-10-23.ana.ud177e891	The President has understood it so that everyone will vote for the vote.
