ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e57	The representative, Jan Simonsen, will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e60	I'm delighted to make two suggestions. One is on the action plan for increased road safety, including: proposals for reducing the import charge on cars and increasing speed limits on certain road sections. The second is a proposal that all foreigners applying for a residence permit in Norway must sign a declaration of allegiance to the Norwegian Constitution and the promise to comply with Norwegian laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e69	The representative of Thore A. Nistad will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e72	On behalf of Siv Jensen, Kenneth Svendsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the construction of environmental tunnels for Rv 4 in Oslo inner east from Hausmann's bridge to Sinsen. I would also like to make a proposal on behalf of Kenneth Svendsen and myself on the extension of Rv 4 to motorway through Nittedal between Gran in Oppland and Grorud in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e79	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e98	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Council Torild Skogsholm The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e114	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. Social security is the cornerstone of the Norwegian welfare society. There are many hundreds of thousands of people who depend on income from retirement — retirement, disability — and it is important that people can rely on popular security and trust that benefits are promised. All parties have promised that pensions will be regulated in line with other social wage developments. In the revised budget, the government estimates that wage developments this year will be 4.5 pst. average for all groups. Nevertheless, it offers 4 pst. That is why we believe that the offer from the State is too poor and does not comply with the guidelines that the Government has also adopted in the case of pensionstopping. We invited the Government to resume discussions with the pensioners to see if there was an opportunity to reach an agreement on a pension regulation agreement in line with the guidelines laid down by the Stortinget. My question is: Will the Prime Minister take the initiative to re-contact the pensioners' organisations in order to get regulation in line with what is promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e125	I agree with Mr Stoltenberg's emphasis on the importance of popular protection and that those who benefit from it are given in accordance with law and regulation. That's what the government is doing. Firstly, the offer made by the State to the social security and pensioners' organisations has fully fulfilled both the Storting and the Government, and signed as Prime Minister, saying that it is under-regulating the former under-regulation of the basic amount that has taken place under changing governments, including the Labour Party Government. We've done that by re-regulating underregulation in 2001 by 0.6 pst. and in 2002 by 0.5 pst., and I have understood that this is satisfactory. In addition to that, we have proposed a regulation of the basic amount of 4 pst. We guarantee that the pensioners will get in line with others. That is why a regulation clause has been introduced, just as in the settlement of government employees, by ensuring that from 1 January, if this means less than in the LO and NHO areas, they will be reregulated. And from 1 May next year, when you have a better overview of developments for all groups, according to the rules of the Storting, they will also receive a back-up if they do not have income developments in line with others. This guarantees the Government. This is in line with Storting's guidelines and our own promises. The two after-regulations plus the adjustment of the basic amount mean that they will have an income development of 4.7 pst in 2003. The G-regulation itself shall also be brought into line with the other, corrected for specific conditions. Therefore, it is not possible today to say that this is 4.5 pst, as the representative Stoltenberg says. The size has itself said that it needs to be corrected for specific circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e134	It's not going to pass that the government has created a lot of confusion about what it really thinks about the retirement stoppage. It's created unnecessary uncertainty. When the revised national budget was presented, everyone understood that it was not going to be re-regulated. Since then, the Prime Minister said it was a misunderstanding, but that misunderstanding had created the Minister of Finance. There's some of the problem, that the government has obviously communicated two different messages. It's good that it's now being re-regulated. The problem is that there is a new underregulation, because the budget says that the wage increase is provided for is 4,5 pst. We are willing to see if there is evidence in relation to whether or not it is lower – if the Government can prove it. But no one thinks it's going to be 4 pst. Nevertheless, the Government offers 4 pst. The working party reached agreement with the pensioners’ organisations in all settlements in the 1990s, even when we were with the government in 2000 and 2001. It has been broken the times that Bondevik has been Prime Minister, simply because it has not taken seriously enough the importance that people can trust that the pension will be regulated, as all parties have promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e143	When it comes to creating confusion, I think the representative Stoltenberg should be a little careful. In fact, he himself has contributed significantly to it. I think it's wise for someone and everyone, including Stoltenberg, to wait for the proposition that is planned to come on Friday. That's where we're going to explain the different numbers. This is complicated, but with the adjustments made, with the adjustment of the basic amount proposed, a rise in income development of 4.7 pst. In addition, if one also includes the extraordinary effort for married and cohabiting pensioners, which is true for some and not all pensioners, one will arrive at an additional 0.5 pst. higher. But we have also said that the basic amount should be regulated in line with the income development for others. We guarantee that through these regulation provisions. Even I have never used the word misunderstanding. The media have done that. But we've said that someone has tried to create the impression that we wouldn't meet the Storting's re-regulation requirement. We've done that, and we'd put that in our original budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e152	There will be follow-up questions – Bjarne Håkon Hanssen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e155	Last week, the Stortinget, which has also been addressed by the Prime Minister, dealt with the guidelines on social security. In the setting, it's called: ‘The discussions will focus on the expected wage growth for all groups in the coming years, as reflected in the Government’s proposal for the Revised National Budget 2003’.» [[total employees]] As you know, the government salary estimate in the revised national budget in 2003 is 4,5 pst. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: how is it even possible to misunderstand what Stortinget has said about this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e167	We have, of course, carefully read both the setting and the decisions taken by Stortinget about this. If I don't remember completely wrong, the bulk of the population has also said that one should be able to correct for specific conditions. This doesn't necessarily make this 4.5 pst. We will review this in the proposition submitted to Stortinget. I think it might be wise for someone and everyone to wait for that review of the proposition. However, if the organisations are offered in the new year, should prove to be below what is applicable to other groups, they are guaranteed to be re-regulated, guaranteed, if necessary, in two rounds – initially in line with the state structure in order to align with the LO/NHO area and in other ways in line with the average for other groups in terms of income development. Proposition comes to Stortinget. Then Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and others will have a good opportunity to discuss it there. I think it's wise to go into the number material before you become too bombastic.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e175	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e178	I am pleased that the Prime Minister – and also the other parties – now admits and accepts that the regulation of the basic amount in 2001 and 2002 was too low, and that there is now talk of post-regulation. The Progress Party proposed a higher basic amount for both settlements, as it was then evident that there was too low regulation. What is remarkable, however, is that both the Prime Minister and Jens Stoltenberg and Kristin Halvorsen, who also admit that the regulation has been too low, only back-regulate, but do not make any post-payments. When you admit that the pensioners in 2002 and up to 2003 have received too little money in relation to what they should have had, why in the whole world you do not pay back that amount of approx. $800 million. Do you really want to delete this item? The progress party proposed to pay for the post-regulation as it was discussed last Wednesday. What is the reason why the Prime Minister accepts that you do not pay back what you owe the pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e185	I also recommend Carl I. Hagen that someone come back to this when the government promotes its proposition for the Storting. We will then be able to discuss the impact dates of the various back-regulations. I would also like to remind the House that we are in a year of cooperation with income policy. It is important to anchor everything that is happening in terms of income development — whether it is for this group, for different groups of workers or for different self-employed people, such as young people. The farmers — in a framework that fits in with income policy cooperation, in order to bring cost developments under control. The government has also stressed what we have presented. It was also the basis for the offer offered to the social security and pensioners' organisations. But I repeat here: we have guaranteed, through regulation provisions, that pensioners and the social-securityed will have income developments at least in line with the rest of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e194	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e197	We had certain hopes when this case was being dealt with in the Stortinget, that the Stortinget and the Government would be able to agree on a zero point as a starting point for the negotiations on pensions, and that they would then be able to get into a track that would make real negotiations between the organizations and the Government anew – away from the track where pension stoppages end up in the Stortinget and underregulated. But I have to say, I am very impressed with what has obviously been the government's starting point for the settlement of the pensioners, when I hear the government council Norman say in the daily revision that the government has made an offer that is in line with the expected wage developments for the front-line industries. In the opinion of the Committee — and during the discussion in Stortinget — there is no doubt that the majority of the population used for the settlement in 2003 is the overall development of employees, i.e. 4.5 pst. [[The President clubs.]] Is it the case that the Prime Minister wants the Stortinget to take the retirement stopover in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e204	Kristin Halvorsen – I have to ask you to respect the speaking time. When the President gives the floor to someone else, you have to stop talking.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e207	I'll be out in that way. We've agreed on a zero point. The government has fully fulfilled the Storting’s assumption of a back-regulation due to past under-regulation of G, by 0,6 pst. in 2001 and by 0.5 pst. in 2002. The underregulation has occurred under changing governments with changing batch color. The zero point is created. So the Storting has adopted guidelines for future regulation of the basic amount. They will also follow the Government. One shall be a little careful to determine bombastically what will be the development of income for other groups. We don't know that at this point in 2003. In addition, Stortinget has also said that one should correct for specific circumstances, such as: the extraordinary promise made to teachers. There may also be other specific circumstances. That is why we do not know exactly what the 2003 revenue development is, and therefore we have introduced a guarantee provision to ensure that pensioners are at least aligned with other groups. That's what the Prime Minister promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e216	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e219	I want to go back to the question of afterpayment. In the context of the 2003 state budget treatment, an overall increase said that underregulation should be adjusted and the back-up should be covered before negotiations on pensions were opened in 2003. It hasn't happened. Last week, Wednesday, we discussed the policy on pension settlement. Then the State Council Norman could not answer if this money had been deposited or not, at least not where the money was written and how much it had been paid for after payment. Like Carl I. Hagen, I am also interested in: is this money coming, and is it to be paid after? The centre party has also submitted proposals for this to be covered and paid after, 857 million. kr we have suggestions on. It's not just the Progress Party that's in this. It seems that both the Progress Party and the media have overlooked this. We want this to be paid after, and I want a clear answer from the Prime Minister now: is this to be paid before the addition of 4,5 pst., or is it just to be added as a symbolism?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e228	Now all of this comes into the proposition on Friday. Every tenth, as far as I remember, costs $143 million. kr. The deregulation does not cost 800 million. So it's going to cost 0.6 plus 0.5, which is 11 times 143 million. kr. Well, well over 1 billion costs the back-up. It has been deposited by the Government, and it is paid out. In addition, the regulation of the basic amount for 2003. What income development is for other groups, we can't do with 100 pst today. Safety is established, we don't know until New Year's. Therefore, we have put in a security provision that, if the regulation of the basic amount does not satisfy the income development of others, the social security and pensioners should at least be in line with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e233	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e237	First, I have to say it was gratifying, what the Prime Minister now said, where he promised that there will be a post-payment of NOK 1.1 billion in the proposition presented on Friday. It was very good news for the country's pensioners. My question is more about the government's priorities now in the context of the revised budget. The Prime Minister has repeatedly stressed the need for tightness, the need to be careful with money use and the need for a very, very careful priority. Then I react to the fact that the additional fee is set at NOK 1 billion – 1 000 million. kr – for immigration policy purposes without making any attempt to tighten up the legislation of that sector, in order to limit asylum immigration. We are about the European champion of asylum immigration in relation to the population. Other countries can no longer afford to spend so much money in this area. Why is it that the Norwegian government says that this is perhaps the highest priority area to spend money on, instead of spending it for the necessary purposes here at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e244	First, since Carl I. Hagen returned to the retirement detention facility, I think what the opposition's spokesman has said today about pensions, it might be wise to await the proposition and see the exact calculations. It was clear that someone here thought that the back-up would cost 800 million. kr. In reality, it costs about twice as much. I did not say 1.1 billion, as Mr Hagen said. I said 143 million. I don't know. I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. It's known to be significantly more than 1.1 billion. It's these things the government has to deal with. It would therefore be wise for someone now to receive the proposition and enter the figures, the date of effect, etc. What I have said is that the regulation is proposed by the Government, as we suggested to the organizations. Then we're at a zero point, and then we're going to move on in regulating the base amount. There we have introduced safeguard clauses that make the development of income, if it is lower than for other groups, gradually at least come into line with others. So for immigration. I do not know if the representative Hagen here tried to link payments to pensioners and appropriations to immigrants. In this case, I think it's a very unfortunate connection. I hope that's not what was meant. A government obligation to enter into the budget the actual expenditure that goes with the asylum influx we actually have to deal with. However, it is not right that the Government has not done anything to reduce the problem of manifestly unfounded asylum applications. On the contrary, the Government has been actively engaged in information work, including: through TV films that have now been broadcast in several of the countries concerned, and we are now recording a clear decline in applications and inflows from people who have no good reason to apply for a stay in Norway. So this is now starting to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e255	First, I want to draw attention to that amount, $857 million. kr, which we proposed to be paid back to the pensioners, has come from the Ministry of Finance and not from ourselves, just so the Prime Minister is aware of it. But I am also pleased that he promised in his previous reply after payment – not regulation, but after payment. When it comes to immigration, he says that the government has an obligation to make proposals to cover the actual expenditure that goes with it. In that case, there would have been an estimate, for the government does not do so in terms of hospital, hospital or other purposes. There is no automatic additional appropriations to cover what goes with it, based on the need. Will the Prime Minister take the consequences of what he has now said? Will he agree with the same principle of spending the money that goes with the policies that have been pursued, including in these other areas? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e264	It's very hard to keep 1 minute, even if the clock goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e267	Yes, it's very difficult, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e272	But then we'll be trained – Prime Minister Bondevik!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e275	That's what we're doing now, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e280	Obviously, there are still some visible results of this training. And besides, it's the Storting that's set the one-minute rule, that's none of the government's business. As for what I have said, I clearly believe that I have been talking about post-regulation. The dates of application of the after-regulation will, of course, be explained in the proposition. In the case of appropriations for asylum seekers and immigration, which are now linked to hospital appropriations, it is in fact, as I know, handled quite equally. In the revised national budget, we need to brief the European Parliament on changes in the allocation needs of asylum seekers and immigration and integration policies. We have done so, and we have made proposals. That's the same thing we do when it comes to hospitals. Both last year and this year, the government proposed increasing hospital appropriations because it turns out that the activity and needs are greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e289	There will be follow-up questions – Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e292	The Prime Minister would like to refer to the government's actions, which clearly do not work, because the fact is that asylum immigration to Norway is increasing dramatically, and so does family reunification. But if it is that the Government has measures that it has faith in, I would like to challenge the Prime Minister for three other measures that the Government is at the forefront of: The government does not want transitional arrangements in relation to the EU’s 10 new countries from 1 June next year.The government wants to extend the immigration of unskilled workers outside the EEA area.In addition, the government wants to open up asylum to people who are being persecuted on the basis of gender. Does the Prime Minister think that these three measures, which relate to a priority area of the Government, will increase or decrease asylum or immigration in general to Norway in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e309	It is wrong that the government's actions are not working. In several countries, we have been informed about the facts through a TV film, and the number of asylum seekers from these countries has fallen sharply. The measures work; the situation is getting under better control. But I have to say that I am somewhat surprised – even though there are some things about the policy of the Advancement Party in this area that may not eventually surprise – when the representative Sandberg, among other things. mentions gender-based persecution, that it should be so very wrong to open people up to Norway on that basis. Then I really have to ask myself: is it so that the Progress Party does not believe that we should give protection to people who are persecuted? For these are people who are persecuted on the basis of gender. Is it really the case that they should not be protected? I didn't even think the Progress Party stood for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e317	Ola D. Lukewarm – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e320	First, I want to solve this with this 857 million. kr. This concerns back-regulation due to under-regulated settlements in 2001 and the period 2001-2002. That is what the Stortinget decided last December, that this delay was to be covered before the negotiations took place, in the spring of 2003. And then it's not just a question of underregulation, then it's a question of covering this up and following the decision that the Storting has made. I would like to ask the Prime Minister again: is it so that this is covered up and paid after and not just withdrawn as a regulatory matter in the settlement of the year? This is at least the decision of the Storting and it should be complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e327	All of this is coming – and it will be explained in the proposition – on Friday. And that's right, the 2001 back-regulation costs about 850 million. kr. But the government also proposes post-regulation for 2002, because that year is now behind us, we know that. There we propose a reregulation of 0.5 pst. And that's approx. 700 million. kr. In total, it is approx. SEK 1.5 billion. That's what the government needs to find cover for, which it also does when it comes to regulation. The timing of payment of this is going to be back in the proposition, but of course this money has been added.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e332	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e335	I'll have to ask the Prime Minister a question. Lower employers’ contributions to jobs in districts have been the most important regional policy instrument we have had, and without it, thousands of jobs in the districts are not life-created. In 1999, when Bondevik was the last prime minister, Norway was convicted, and this scheme is now illegal in Norway because we are a member of the EEA. Three governments now have four years to put in place a new system that can save jobs in the districts. The government has now sent its proposal for a new arrangement to ESA, and they have obviously done a very bad job, because that answer is dramatic. There is considerable uncertainty about all the mechanisms proposed by the Government now, including the transitional arrangements – whether there will be a derogation from agriculture and fisheries, whether there will be transport aid for rural enterprises. The government has not even tried to approve transport aid for the whole area of the country that can get it. Can the government now guarantee that they get the least in place they have applied for?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e342	When the question is whether we can guarantee that we can at least get what we have applied for, it might be a slightly distorted problem, because an applicant cannot guarantee what the answer is. I hope that's understandable. But what I can guarantee is that the government will do what it can in terms of maintaining the strongest possible instruments in this area. And it's wrong when the media try to create the impression that the government has been passive on these issues. Firstly, we have fought to maintain the general system of differentiated employer fees, which I fully agree with, has been a successful and important district policy instrument. It has not been possible. On the other hand, we have reason to believe, and at least we want to take it into account, that we have to deal with the action zone in the north. For other areas, we have to choose other instruments. The government has explained what a person will work to counteract the negative effect of the loss of a differentiated employer’s fee. This applies in all the district zones currently subject to a lower rate than the maximum rate. But of course, we can't guarantee what the final answer is from ESA on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e347	I'm recording what the Prime Minister says. In 1993, Bondevik assured the Norwegian people that we would retain this arrangement under the EEA. Now I see that the government does not have any particular faith in its own possibilities in these negotiations either. And I have to ask, what does the government mean when it says it's going to do what it can? I'm now sitting, for example. with a press release sent by ESA yesterday, where they say that it is possible to apply for e.g. aid for transport for larger parts of Norway than what the Government has actually done. Will the Government now review its positions and seek to use the possibilities provided by the legislation, in spite of everything, to put in place schemes that are vital to the jobs in the districts? Does the government now have any other solutions that it has tried, or that it has not tried, and that it can come up with in the last round? It looks like what the government has now done will not be approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e354	The representative Karin Andersen can be absolutely certain that we will do what we can to maintain the most possible and most effective district policy instruments as compensation for the loss of a differentiated employer’s fee. The government initially wanted to include the entire district policy scope for, for example: the aid for transport, which has been specifically discussed in relation to the central eastern region. But during the process against ESA, we were given clear signals that they would not accept such a large scope of transport aid. It was shown that e.g. Hedmark and Uppland were too close to the central eastern region and thus could not detect such extra transport costs. However, if the new ESA signals come through press releases, it is clear that we will seize every opportunity to maintain the strongest possible instruments. There is no need to create a political dispute between the parties in Norway about this. We – I was saying – are fighting with bodies in the EU and EFTA, and we have to do that together.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e359	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e362	Unfortunately, as of 1 January next year, we are likely to face a situation in which many parts of Norwegian business have completely changed framework conditions, having received a higher employer's fee and new schemes that are more bureaucratic, more difficult to access and much less accurate than those we have today. For Finnmark and Nord-Troms, this will be a dramatic situation. So we can face a situation where you go from zero in the employer's fee to 14,1, possibly with some compensatory measures for some enterprises. But the point is that this will be about so many jobs that, for Finnmarks and Nord-Troms, if you don't get a system similar to that of today, you can actually say that the areas are being closed down. This is the dramatic situation we're actually facing. The cost to business in isolation is over DKK 8 billion if you want to have a full employer's fee, but it is clear that the cost to society, the structure of society, the settlement, is much higher than just these DKK 8 billion. What unfortunately is the situation is this. What I'm sure is that the government does of course what it can, but how is it possible to find measures to compensate for this, without just getting a lot of bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e367	In fact, the government has explained to the Storting what compensatory measures we intend to put in place. Now, I think perhaps the example of Finnmark from the representative, Djupedal, was little chosen, because, as is well known, the government assumes that we maintain the zero rate for the employer’s fee in the action zone, which includes Finnmark and Nord-Troms. This I thought the representative of Djupedal was fully aware of, and one should not then try to create a completely different picture and a fear of a situation in which the government does not intend to go into. It is also important that, in the case of the transport aid scheme, which has been particularly debated in relation to the central east region, Hedmark and Oppland, it is only part of a compensation for the loss of a differentiated employer’s fee. We have also presented the Stortinge to other measures we intend to put in place, and we will now consider further efforts for conversion and innovation in the regions affected by the conversion. This comes as a proposal for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e375	Sylvia Brustad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e378	There is no doubt that this matter is of great importance both in relation to the whole of the district policy and in relation to jobs, where we know that there are significant challenges in these days. I hear now that the Prime Minister says that the Government has fought what it can in this case. I have to say that I put a little question mark on it, in relation to both fighting for the scheme and for compensation. Karin Andersen has pointed out here that compensation schemes are not available, for example. in relation to Hedmark and Oppland. I think it's strange that the government four natives, also in this case, I would say, as little attention as it does. We know that it will be dramatic, among other things. for these two counties, if one, for example: are not compensated for by transport aid and a person loses the differentiated employer’s fee. Can we now expect the Government, in particular because there are slightly different signals from what the Prime Minister here is now saying, to go through this carefully and see if it is possible to give compensatory measures as monks? So far we haven't seen it from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e385	The answer to that is yes, and it is given at least twice earlier in this spontaneous question hour. Firstly, the Government has been active, and in order to use the expression of the representative Sylvia Brustad: we have fought – both to maintain the differentiated employer fee, which would have been clearly the best and easiest, and for other measures, when this is no longer possible. The Minister of Finance has personally been in two meetings with the European Commissioner for Competition on this, and we have, of course, addressed it at a number of other levels – the Prime Minister has also personally addressed it in meetings. We've also given a lot of attention to the interior. We are aware of the problems that, among other things, Hedmark and Uppland may face in the event of the loss of a differentiated employer fee, and we would therefore have seen it as desirable, for example. had been possible with transport aid. We have received quite clear signals from ESA that it will not be possible. But if there's any new signal, I can assure you that we'll seize any chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e392	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e395	There is a cross-political consensus that the differentiated employer fee has been the most effective regional policy measure we have had. Now we have to wait for what ESA says, there's a lot of uncertainty about it. But until then, I would like to challenge the Prime Minister and the Government on the following: Will it be difficult to find a new system that is equally accurate? Does this mean, then, that the Government is thinking differently in its industrial policy in relation to the districts? This may result in the Government, inter alia: through the transport plan with other eyes on road construction, on infrastructure in general? Will this mean that the Government will look with other eyes at being able to use gas, expand gas power, other power build-ups? Will this Government take unemployment seriously in relation to the introduction of measures — with public sector construction projects — create incentives in the private sector by creating construction activities, both in the case of roads and construction and in order to meet what might have additional consequences if the differentiated employer fee disappeared?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e400	The government takes the increasing unemployment seriously, even regardless of any loss of a differentiated employer's fee. That's the whole background of our budgetary policy, where the main problem is a high cost level, through high interest rates and strong cost rates. Now the interest rate is falling, now the dollar is falling, this is the main contribution we can make, and it is important that the budget framework can be maintained, so that this positive development can now continue as a key instrument in the fight against unemployment. In the fight against unemployment, we have also significantly reduced taxes and charges for businesses. The situation would have been much worse if these fees and taxes had not fallen away. This is why we are increasing the framework conditions for research and development – in enterprises. In the case of gas power, all of the Government know its position in relation to it. Three gas power plants have been granted a concession; in this case, additional gas power stations must be equipped with CO2 management. We cannot follow the direction of the Progress Party on budgetary policy. Then we'll stop the interest rate drop and destroy thousands of jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e409	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e412	I want to ask a main question to the Prime Minister and follow up where the Prime Minister himself left off in his last answer. There is no doubt that the growing unemployment rate is the biggest problem we are facing in our society at the moment. Unemployment is increasing in all industries, and it is increasing throughout the country. The worst hit is the Norwegian industry. More and more are being permitted, and more and more are now at risk of cancellation. Today, representatives of the Norwegian shipyard industry stand up and ask the Prime Minister for assistance. Industry needs measures in addition to those with a lower crown price and a lower interest rate. I fully agree with the Prime Minister that success is essential, but industry is asking for relief for measures beyond that. My question is therefore: will the Prime Minister and the Government, when examining the revised budget, support concrete measures to ensure jobs in the shipbuilding industry, such as the construction of ferries, gas ferries and other entirely concrete measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e421	The revised national budget has now been presented to the Stortinget. The discussions are now taking place here, and the government parties are open to cooperation with others. The Labour Party is now discussing a budget to actively combat unemployment, but within a responsible framework, which is also important in the fight against unemployment. There I have understood that the Workers' Party has a common understanding with the Government. On the part of the Workers' Party, a number of proposals have been presented to us so far in the process that they will increase expenditure, and in the case of proposals that will reduce expenditure accordingly, so that the framework can be maintained in order to continue with a fall in interest rates and rates. But within those frameworks, of course, government parties are open to discuss with the Workers' Party measures that can further help us in the fight against unemployment. The government has also made suggestions. We have created 3 500 job vacancies, of which 1 000 are available for so-called job clubs and job search activities, which can provide 6 000 job vacancies to get back to work on their own. I mentioned instead what we have done for research, for tax relief, for the companies – here, for the rest, the Workers' Party has gone another way. They will impose higher costs on enterprises than the Government has proposed, which would be dangerous to the development of unemployment. We have also achieved income policy cooperation that has brought income development under control, perhaps one of the most important measures in the fight against unemployment. However, in addition to this, we are open to discuss with the Workers' Party further action if it can take place within a sound framework and with an invasion that the government parties can also stand behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e430	It must be noted that despite all the things that the Prime Minister has now listed that the Government has done, it is an inevitable fact that we are facing an increasing unemployment – it will continue to increase out this year, and also into next year. This means that it is necessary to consider measures in addition to what the Government has outlined in the revised national budget. I note that the Prime Minister is reluctant to respond to concrete projects aimed at industry, which have been hit hardest, and I can assure the Prime Minister that when the Workers' Party is going to propose such projects, they will also be financed within responsible budgetary frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e437	Yes, the government takes as seriously as the Workers' Party the increasing unemployment. We want to fight it, because we want it, for example. not to get into such a high level of leave as it was during the Workers' Party in the early 1990s. We have never had so much leave in Norway in modern times as during the Workers' Party. We will avoid that, and therefore we are pursuing a policy to actively seek to avoid getting into that situation. As I said, we are open to further measures, including those aimed at industry, if this can be done within sound budgetary frameworks. I understand that the Workers' Party agrees, and then we have to present concrete proposals from the Workers' Party before I can take a stand on expenditure increases across the Stortingen Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e445	There will be follow-up questions – Tore Nordtun.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e448	The availability is now approx. It's 100,000. There is an increase of one year of over 30 p.m., and there is an increase in all occupations and most in industry. The forecasts also show that we can count on approx. 160,000 unemployed in a year. The Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour have expressed that the Norwegian industry is black-painting its own situation and that the employment situation is greatly exaggerated, while the Minister of Industry has previously blamed the good wages and salaries. Does the Prime Minister feel that it is worrying when solid enterprises in different areas of Norway are shutting down and flagging out production, and that the whole community is left without work?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e457	The answer is yes. It's worrying. Since the representative Nortun now mentioned the actual unemployment rate, I should be considerate of him and his party and not mention the actual unemployment rate under the Workers' Party in 1993. It was unfortunately much higher. But we're going to do what we can to avoid getting up to the top-recorded unemployment level of the Workers' Party. That is why, as I said, we are open to measures that can further strengthen the fight against unemployment. One shall not stem from the problem that wage developments in Norway have created for business costs. One should not travel on many companies to hear that it has actually been part of the problem. That is why income policy cooperation was so important to the Government. It has also been a positive contribution from the National Organisation. We have now brought wage developments under better control. Everyone should be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e464	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e467	It is wrong when the Prime Minister claims that the Government has an active policy to combat unemployment. The government is doing nothing to combat unemployment. What the government is constantly repeating is that it is necessary to have a sound framework and a tight budget, so that you can get interest and the dollar down further. That's what we're hearing. Yesterday, however, the governor gave a whole new signal in relation to interest rate policy in the future. It is now, at least in many contexts, that a significant fall in interest rates means that the economy is in a bad state. How does this harmonize with this so-called government's recipe for a successful economic policy, when a strong fall in interest rates in that case is a signal that the economy is going significantly worse than what has been foreseen? Is it not true that it would be better to relax something on these so-called tight budgets, stimulate the economy, especially in areas where we have free capacity, get workers out in the street to build roads, make optimism and create activity, rather than sit still in the museum, as the Government does?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e474	I have heard that the representative Siv Jensen is talking about the government sitting in silence. It's not going to be more correct if she keeps repeating it. The government has – I don't think I'm going to repeat that list now – a number of measures to combat unemployment. However, I would not recommend following the direction of the Progress Party and blowing up all the budget lines responsible by presenting proposals in the context of the revised national budget, which is, in effect, between 5 and 6 billion kroner. And it comes about adjusting a budget, and not in the main debate on the harvest! It almost seemed as if Siv Jensen was now nothing particularly happy because the interest rate is likely to go further down. Is it true that the Progress Party wants a higher interest rate? It is left to Siv Jensen's question. We are pleased with the signals that came from the governor yesterday. There is still a clear difference in interest rates between Norway and the rest of the world, the countries with which we compete. It'll still be a problem. Therefore, it is important to bring the interest rate down further. The whole world economy is debilitating and slowing down. It also hits us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e483	Heikki Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e486	The Nobel Prize winner in Economics Joseph Stiglitz just wrote in an article in the Evening Post about how important it was to spend more money focused on downtime to combat unemployment. In the construction industry we have now doubled the unemployment rate since July last year. Now more than 8,000 people are going unemployed. At the same time, we have received a quarterly report from the House Bank showing a dramatic decline in the construction of rental homes – a dramatic decline of 72 p.m. So there's only 16 homes built for the homeless, and there's only 25 homes in the escalating plan for mental health protection. This is much less than the need. Then my question is, what does the Prime Minister intend to do about us being, at the same time as there are 8 000 unemployed construction workers, lacking money to bet on solving the housing problems for those who need it the most, most of all?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e495	First of all, the question of spending more money targeted. Yes, the government actually does. We spend more money than what a so-called mechanical return of the Petroleum Fund is now supposed to be, i.e. 4 pst. Read the budget papers and see that the government uses more than a mechanical application of the rule of action, both last year and this year, through so-called smoothing of the rule of action, i.e. that one sees this over several years. We're taking out more now, for example. Because we're in a recession. The government does. So there's a question of dosage. Our perception is that if we were to go a lot further, such as the Progress Party in particular, but as I have understood that SV also wants, we can counteract the drop in interest rates that is now in place. I refer you to the Governor's lecture yesterday, where he says that the Government's revised national budget is so arranged that it prevents the lock-in of the crown price we could otherwise get. So there was a positive character to the Government's proposal. I get to get back to the construction industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e504	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e507	I'm going to try to keep away from polemics about which periods of unemployment were the highest, and try to address the fact that unemployment is now rising rapidly, and that industry is seriously concerned about how development is going to be – especially the industry that is used to having some wave valleys, among other things. the paint industry. They say that economic policy is well and good, but where is the active will to pursue an industrial policy that benefits not least the coast and the districts? They also accuse the Government of inaction in industrial policy. Therefore, I will challenge the Prime Minister on four concrete proposals and ask whether the Government intends to support the four concrete proposals: The government will reverse the cut of 53 million industrial research. Do you think it would be a good idea to do something about it, and it would be a good idea to do something about it. Will the Government change the law of leave, so that one increases the period of leave from 26 to 52 weeks? Will the Government contribute to the building of gas ferries and the development of gas technologies through guarantees or subsidies in Norway? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e521	It was just three!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e524	Let me just first, since I did not get a response from Holmås about the construction industry, show that the government has actually proposed a significant extension of the loan scheme for upgrading school buildings in the municipalities, which could put vacant building workers into work. Most of the proposals now presented by the representative Arnstad are part of the discussions on the revised national budget – and I do not believe that the representative Arnstad expects the Prime Minister to decide today on the positions of the government parties in the Financial Committee in the consideration of the revised national budget. The proposals submitted by the various parties, and in particular those with which we may have an agreement, will be considered. As far as research is concerned, I would like to point out that the co-operation administration has actually stimulated it significantly for industry – not least through the FUNN tax scheme, which gives all Norwegian companies tax deductions when set aside for research and development. That arrangement has almost exploded. It's positive and works for conversion and innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e533	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e536	It may be tempting to follow up on the very latest Prime Minister now said: The industrial research that the Prime Minister now holds leads to redundancies in SINTEF, which is the most developed and some of the best research environment we have in Norway today – regardless of the FUNN tax regime. I will follow up on the question of a differentiated employer's fee. The Prime Minister said he would assess all the measures, and then it might be tempting to ask if he would like to cancel an agreement that does not allow us to maintain such an effective and good system as the differentiated employer's fee. But I realize that the answer to that is a little too simple to predict. However, there has now been a legal investigation by the law firm Thommes Krefting Count Lund, which indicates that they believe we should use the exemption clause in the EEA agreement – not only in Nord-Troms and Finnmark, but throughout the area that currently enjoys a tax exemption for employers' fees. Legal developments in the EU have justified the use of a parallel provision in EU laws. Is the Prime Minister and the Government willing to assess such an opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e545	Of course, we study with interest all the material that comes and that can help us to maintain good district policy arrangements to counteract the negative consequences of the loss of a differentiated employer's fee. Now I think the representative Arnstad asked us if we could consider this implemented throughout the area that has had an exemption from the employer’s fee – she thought it would be reduced, I would assume. Only Nord-Troms and Finnmark have an exemption. So that's where the government assumes that we're maintaining the exemption. We have received clear messages from ESA, also based on judgments, that we cannot count on maintaining the differentiated employer fee in additional areas – if there is new material that should be different, we will of course study it – it has been the clear impression we have received after we have brought this matter to the top of the EU and EFTA systems. So what we have now concentrated on is developing other district policy instruments, which will be acceptable under the EU and ESA competition regime. We will come back to Stortinget with concrete proposals on when we've come further, but they're already publicly announced, part of the arrangements we're now assessing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e557	I thought of a reduction in the employer's fee, and I thought of a reduction in the employer's fee in the mountain region of South Norway, in parts of the Prime Minister's own constituency, Møre and Romsdal, and I thought of it as a matter of fact on the Fosen and the Namdalen. Those are the ones that are being hit hardest by the change that the government is now putting up with. It is also said that there is also a question of the Government opening up to the exemption it wants in Nord-Troms and Finnmark. But regardless of whether it does, these other regions, which also have major problems in terms of economic development, are going to be very poor. There is considerable uncertainty in their future development in terms of the differentiated employer’s fee and any compensation. But what Thommes Krefting Count Lund says in his mind is that it is possible, based on the EU's own legal development, to apply the rule of exception under ODA Protocol 3 and apply it to the whole district policy area. And when the government gets such a consideration on the table, do I hope the government will do what it can to the EEA body to apply this rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e567	I am aware that the cancellation of a differentiated employer’s fee in isolation will have a significant negative impact both in my own country and in mountain regions, but also in other regions of South Norway. That's why we're now so concerned about finding the most targeted measures that can compensate for the districts that this is about. At the same time, we need to set them up in such a way that we have reason to believe that they are accepted within the EU/EFTA competition regime. And as I said, if there's new information – knowledge – that can make you stand stronger in this fight, possibly even when it comes to using differentiated employer fees in larger areas, we'll study it. However, this has been discussed at the highest political level, including in the European Commission. And we haven't got any such signals at all – on the contrary. But we like to study it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e574	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Roger Enoksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e577	I think it is a little surprising to hear that the Prime Minister expects to be signaled through this kind of negotiation. The same negative signals were given to the previous government led by the Prime Minister. In that case ESA would not allow us to maintain the differentiated employer’s fee. At the time, a legal action was taken, which showed significantly that we were satisfied with our demand to maintain the differentiated employer's fee. There were some changes, but those changes were of marginal importance for Norwegian industry. The legal point now referred to by the representative Arnstad shows that there is indeed a basis for this kind of disagreement. Then the centre party believes that it is not good enough just to apply for the approval of any alternative arrangements. You should really try this case, try it in the form of a new trial. I also believe that there are exceptions that have not been tested, including: derogations for small enterprises which do not compete within the EEA territory but only operate in a local market. Why don't you look at a new case as an opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e582	I know very well the decision the representative of Enoxsen mentioned from the time of the central government. Then it is important to note that the approval that was then granted was due in 2003. It was quite clear that we could face a new regime after 1 January 2004, and that is where we are now. All the discussions indicate that this is not to be avoided. When the Government has not recommended a new legal case, which is of course an opportunity, it is because the process risk is very high, and one may also risk that the companies will then have to pay back too little paid employers' fees. This will really cause a major problem for Norwegian business in the areas in question. That risk does not want the Government to take. We don't want to put that burden on businesses in the districts. So we don't recommend that. Instead, we want to work for other instruments that can counteract the negative effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e589	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e593	I note that the Prime Minister is clearly misinformed, both about Norwegian geography and about the letter from ESA. In the case of Norwegian geography, I can state that, for example: Tolga, Os, and Engerdal do not belong to the central east, but are far from the center. Unfortunately, in the letter from ESA, which is on the Ministry's website, it says in the case of the differentiated employer's fee in North Norway – I will translate it into Norwegian, because I understand that it is necessary here – that the directorate cannot see that it can in any way approve such a scheme, nor for Nord-Troms and Finnmark. This is very dramatic. I also record that the Prime Minister now says that there might be some possibilities here that we haven't used. We expect a government that fights for its positions and for the interests of the Norwegian districts, and does not go to a counter-debt and say: If you do not approve this immediately, we do not care about even applying for it! I would like to ask the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister have, for example, even read this letter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e604	I am well informed of the facts of the matter. I have never said that the three named municipalities belong to the central eastern region. Where the representative Karin Andersen got it from, I don't know. She doesn't have to take that up at all. If she expects a government to fight, she gets that expectation fulfilled. The government has fought, and it will fight for the best possible regional policy instruments. This is an attempt to create the impression that the government is passive and only accepts the first answer we get from ESA. It's totally misleading, completely wrong. I know that myself. I myself, as Prime Minister, have raised these questions. The Minister of Finance has done it. Other government councils have done it. We've done it at different levels, and we're fighting everything we can to maintain the best possible arrangements. Now we should fight together against the counter-crimes we have, instead of fighting internally and trying to create the impression that the Government is passive when it's the very opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e611	The time for the oral questioning process is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e625	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e632	The treatment of the so-called mulla Krekar case has contributed strongly to the focus on the travel of refugees and asylum seekers between Norway and the home country. Police reports also show that some asylum seekers travel abroad while their applications are being examined, despite the fact that, as a general rule, asylum seekers are not to be awarded travel documents. Many suggest that some illegal immigration is possible due to misuse of just travel documents. Against this background, it is necessary to see the proposals of the Progress Party to make existing legislation both tighter, narrower and less flexible. The question is whether a legislative tightening is necessary or appropriate. With the exception of the Progress Party, all parties in the Committee believe that today's legislation is initially good enough. It provides clear grounds for the withdrawal of the permit of asylum or residence by persons who have received a residence on an incorrect basis. Today’s practice also says that the application is filed or rejected without processing if an asylum seeker leaves Norway or disappears to another place while the application is being processed. That's the general rule and the normal one. Like most people, it is unacceptable that persons who have received refugee status in Norway use their Norwegian foreign passports and travel documents to travel to their country of origin on holiday. Such travel activities will be the abuse of the asylum institution. It says ‘serious and requires a response’, a joint committee says. There is also an overall committee that points out the importance of giving the right signals, so as to avoid increased influxes of asylum seekers without a need for protection. Today's law is not absolute, but it gives room for discretion. Some flexibility in the law is important in order to ensure that individual considerations are taken into account in the difficult situation of a refugee. In addition, it is important to note that, in the vast majority of cases, travel is unproblematic. Once a person with a foreign background has acquired Norwegian citizenship, this is an authorisation whereby he/she enjoys the same rights as all other Norwegians, even in relation to travel activities. I refer here to the full presentation by the Government of the draft revised national budget. This is in response to a previous request decision in Stortinget. The media often put a sharp searchlight on individuals and unlucky individual pistachios. In such cases, it is understandable that people react, and that a critical look at our own laws and rules and how these are practiced may be necessary and appropriate. Both the proposals in this case and previous decisions in Stortinget have highlighted relevant issues. There are issues and challenges that the Government is briefing the Storting on precisely in the revised national budget for 2003. In addition, a broad majority of the Committee refers to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs' letter to the Committee on 12 March 2003, which states that the Council of State wishes to examine how the legislation is actually being practised. For the purposes of tightening up, the procedures for renewing travel documents and for issuing new documents after the notification of lost documents will also be further explored. The geographical demarcation of travel activities will also be assessed. The Progress Party will, to a far greater extent than the rest of the Majority, have laws and rules that are absolute, automatic and provide little room for human consideration. The majority of the Committee does not consider that it should be able to support this proposal and will therefore be able to attach it to the minutes. Finally, I would recommend the Committee's recommendation on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e656	The issues raised in the proposals of the Progress Party that we are discussing today have been raised in the past by the Monitoring Committee in the UK. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party then put forward the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that the legislation is in accordance with the intentions and, where appropriate, to propose legislative changes where the general rule is that residence in the country of origin leads to withdrawal of asylum status.’ In the revised national budget, the Council of State has made a full statement on the request decision of the Stortinget. It is not the case that the Progress Party is trying to give an idea of the position, that only those involved in the misuse of the asylum institution are involved, and that only the Progress Party is engaged in the use of issued travel documents to travel to the home Member State, where this is not permitted. Much of the legislation is in place. But there's every reason to look at the practice of today's rules. Today’s legislation is such that if an asylum seeker leaves the country, the application is withdrawn, and this is also practice. However, if the asylum seeker concerned comes back and promotes a new application, he/she has the right to be dealt with under the refugee Convention. With the fingerprint register, it should be easy to find out if the person has applied for earlier, but then left the country, and that there is hardly any reason for protection. Such an application may be made quickly, considers the Workers' Party, and is therefore not the major problem. The Labour Party believes that the Government needs to review current practice to see whether the practice of the rules and procedures is still governed by the legislation. As regards travel restrictions for those with asylum status or residence permits, the Workers’ Party considers that the presentation by the Council of State in revised form demonstrates that the handling of current legislation needs to be improved. When it became known in 2000 that over 1,500 northern Iraqis with Norwegian travel documents had crossed the Syrian-Iracian border this year, the government of Stoltenberg made a tightening up. After learning that there were so many people who travelled home for periods, a refusal to apply for a residence permit was granted to Northern Iraq people who did not have an individual protection need. The Labour Party believes that if you stay for periods in the country you have fled, it is an indication that the need in Norway is not real. A practice that allows asylum seekers to travel on holiday etc. to the country of origin, will contribute to undermining the institution of asylum and will easily conflict with the general legal position of the people, and it will require a response. The Labour Party considers, as the whole Committee expresses in its opinion, that it is unfortunate that persons with refugee status or protection in Norway circumvent the travel restriction to their country of origin in their Norwegian foreign passports and travel documents by first travelling to a neighbouring country and then travelling to their country of origin. If UDI and UNE practices today may indicate that travel certificates and foreign passports are initially issued without travel restrictions other than travel to the home Member State, there is reason to take a closer look at this. It is necessary to consider whether there are several countries that must be covered by where the asylum seeker is unable to obtain travel documents. I expect the Council of State to come back to this either as a matter of its own or in connection with the revision of the whole law on foreigners that Stortinget is being treated for if not for too long. The Party agrees that the matter is annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e683	The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Holmberg, said something that gives me an understanding of why Stortinget does not want to take any action. What the rapporteur said was a de minimis approach to the problem. I'd like to discuss whether the Krekar case was the triggering factor, but it's not a single thing we're talking about. That's what I think the representative Eye strongly expressed by referring to the numbers she was operating on. We have recorded frequent border crossings carried out by people who have a temporary stay and stay in Norway on the basis that they have been persecuted. Then it's a bit of a shame, I think, that the Storting doesn't give the government, like to call it an instruction or at least an opportunity to tighten up the practice in line with the extent of the problem. I saw a documentant on the NRK the other day, and if several of the representatives saw it, they should have changed their settings immediately today. For it clearly shows how big the problem can be in Norway. The documentary was about other countries in Europe, but the developments we see in the rest of Europe, we cannot be blind to or be calm and watch and imagine that will not happen in Norway. There are dangerous features to that development. I don't want to elaborate on it any more. That's why the Progress Party, as the only party now, actually takes this matter seriously, and it doesn't matter what the representative eye says. It's not that we in the Progress Party believe that we're the only party that's concerned about this. In the comments in the setting and not least in the investigation that is being revised, we see how big the problem is, and that the whole Stortinget understands that it is a big problem. The difference between the Progress Party and the other parties is that we will act. We are making proposals for action, while the rest of the Stortinget and the Government will continue to investigate and evaluate. Nor is it the case that this is about human considerations, because if it had been an argument, it should have weighed on the side of the Progress Party. Nor is it correct, as it is claimed, that the legislation is in place. The legislation is deficient, although we can also see that the practice in relation to the existing legislation is wrong. But what is contained in our proposals is additional legislation to tighten up even more in relation to the travel activity that is taking place, not to the country of origin, but to neighbouring countries and through them to the country of origin, which we have no chance of controlling. That is where the problem lies, and there has to be a change of rules. I just want to finally express some satisfaction, as all the parties on the Stortinget, and the Government through its investigation in revised, at least realize that this is a problem. Then we got a little bit on our way. It's taken four-five-six years to realize it. I hope, even if the Stortinge agrees with our proposals, that the Government and the Council of State will not use another three-four-five years to implement new legislation or change the practice of the legislation, so that we do not get into the situation that was revealed on the documentary that was sent to the NRK the other day. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e698	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e701	SV is in the majority of the setting and is in favour of it. We give clear notice to the Government that the laws and regulations in place are to be practised, and there is also a clear message that part of the legislation needs to be looked at to see if it needs to be tightened up. The difference between the majority and the Progress Party is that the Progress Party believes that people should be treated in full, regardless of their situation, while the majority believes that there may be some exceptions, and that there are some assessments that need to be made by the administration in such cases. For example, in the case of the registered border crossings into northern Iraq, which is highly debated, there is no doubt that in many cases there may be a situation in which there is reason to say that he is not threatened. But sail if there are many border crossings, that doesn't mean that everyone is traveling. There might be some people who travel a lot, and saying that everyone should be treated exactly the same because they have crossed a limit, is going to be wrong. There must be a basis for assessment. SV has also participated in asking the Government to look at the procedures for issuing travel documents in order to limit, if possible, the possibility of travelling to neighbouring countries. But doing this completely summarily can lead to actual abuse of people whose only opportunity to meet their family is that it happens in a neighboring country. That's also an opportunity. I can reassure the representative Sandberg that I also saw the documentary on TV last night, and part of what we saw there was quite outrageous. You don't have to be naive and blind to it. But at the same time, it cannot be said that this applies to all those who are refugees and asylum seekers, that it concerns everyone who has come to Europe, and that everyone should therefore be treated as if they are potential terrorists and extremists who are willing to both overthrow societies and kill people, because that is not the case. We cannot behave in such a way that we suspect everyone even if someone has abused our trust or does things that are illegal. I believe that the Storting has now given a clear message that we believe that the law and the legislation in place, which, in our view, provides the basis for exercising these travel regulations strictly and according to our international obligations, is actually to be used, and that the Government has been told that they must go through their procedures to ensure that this is practiced in line with what it actually is. It also means that the majority of the Storing have acknowledged that there have been some openings that may have been too large and that they are now to be closed again. I see this as a serious way of dealing with this question. Taking on the proposals that the Progress Party now has will mean a summary and arbitrary treatment of individuals who are not a state of law worthy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e716	Like others, I had the benefit of seeing the documentary that went to NRK the other day. It is hardly difficult for some of us to distance ourselves from recruitment to terrorism, from violence and crime against their own religious institutions, which were also documented. But we have to be able to think more thoughts at the same time, and in this case I would say that for the Christian People's Party it is – and it has always been – important to protect the institution of asylum, maintain respect for it, and not least guarantee the right to asylum as a real right for those who need protection. If we are to retain this respect for the institution of asylum, it must be reacted if the institution of asylum is abused. The majority, of whom the Christian People’s Party is a part, believe that ‘if persons have been given residence on incorrect grounds, asylum/other residence permits shall be revoked’. There is also a basis for this in today's legislation. Today’s practice is that an asylum seeker who leaves the country or who disappears to an unknown place while the application is being processed is considered to have withdrawn his application. The Committee refers to the letter of the Council of State of Solberg dated 12 March 2003, which states that the application for asylum ‘either be lodged or a negative decision is taken without substance’ in such a case. The Christian People's Party, like other parties, has recorded that there are unfortunate incidents. We are pleased that the Government will carry out a review of rules and procedures to see if the practice should be improved. With regard to proposal 2 of document No. 8:58, which refers to travel restrictions, refers the Committee to the Government’s presentation in the revised national budget 2003. The Committee asks the Government to take a closer look at the practice of the legislation regarding the circumvention of travel restrictions in the Norwegian passport and travel documents of the asylum seeker when travelling to his country of origin via neighbouring country. The Committee asks the Government to tighten up the procedures for the renewal of travel documents when they have been notified of loss. Furthermore, the Committee asks for an assessment of surrounding countries to be subject to travel restrictions in order to prevent abuse. Finally, the Christian People's Party will refer to the letter of 7 March 2003 to the Municipal Committee and the Justice Committee of NOAS, the Norwegian Asylum Seeker Organisation, where it states: ‘However, while the abuse of the asylum system must be actively combated, it is imperative that the asylum system retains the flexibility and the basic inter-human understanding that the life situation of refugees requires.’ The Christian People's Party agrees with NOAS in this. For example, NOAS shows: in its letter to the UNHCR Handbook on Procedures and Criteria for determining the Legal Status of Refugees, point 125, which includes, among other things: is: ‘It has a different meaning in assessing the refugee’s relationship with the home Member State if he visits an old or sick parent than on regular visits to the country in the form of holidays or with a view to establishing commercial relations.’ It states that such cases should be ‘assessed individually’. The Christian People's Party agrees with UNHCR and NOAS in their consideration of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e741	As you can see from this setting, there is a large number of them. The center party is in that plural. We think it is good that all parties, apart from the Progress Party, stress that it is important that the institution of asylum and respect for the institution of asylum should be preserved. The right to asylum shall be effective for those who need it. We actually thought it was embarrassing that the Progress Party could not stand for such a policy. Then the majority also says that ‘if persons have been given residence on incorrect grounds, asylum/other residence permits shall be revoked’. So that's the basis of today's law. We agree that the abuse of the asylum institution is serious, and that it requires reactions. Today’s practice is also such that if an asylum seeker leaves Norway or disappears to an unknown place while the application is being processed, the application is deemed to be withdrawn. The letter from the Council of State to the Committee of 12 March 2003 states that either the asylum application is abolished in such circumstances, or a negative decision is taken without substance. Then there are some unfortunate episodes. For this reason, the majority is pleased that the Government has carried out a closer review of rules and procedures to see if the practice should be improved. The majority also states that persons with refugee status should not normally be able to use their Norwegian foreign passports and travel documents for trips to their home country on holiday. But it is very important that we reject here the automatic handling of such cases and thus the arbitrary treatment that individuals may be subjected to and that lies in the Progress Party's proposal. There is a broad majority that wants the UDI to evaluate each case, and also evaluate each case against circumstances that can change over the year, and we refer to the UNHCR Handbook in this field. There can be no doubt that there may be people who deliberately have to choose to expose themselves to danger for, for example: very special family relationships, members of the non-Norway family, with whom it is important to have contact. The Committee would like to see the procedures for the renewal of travel documents and the issuance of new documents after the document has been notified to the public. The Committee would also like the Government to look at whether the geographical restriction on travel activities should, in some respects, cover surrounding countries. Then there's something about UDI's own information about the current legislation, and the committee also underlines that. It may well be that the information itself on the current rules can be considerably better. In total, I think that the committee here has carried out a good balance, which is probably felt by the centre party, and I am glad that there is such a wide plurality that rejects the Progress Party's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e758	Let me start by saying that this is a problem that affects quite a few parts of the asylum policy. First of all, this is nothing static. Once asylum seekers arrive, once they may have been granted residence and asylum, some of them will remain in this country for a long time, actually become Norwegian citizens gradually, and things can happen in the home country. It is therefore very difficult to talk about absolutes in this context, but it is also important to say that there are assessments that need to be made in relation to the individual case at one time. At the same time, it is quite important to stress that it is a huge problem to abuse the institution of asylum, that it is actually documented through its return journey that there was no need for asylum, or that there was no need for protection. It is also a major problem that there is an abuse of Norwegian travel documents, which are not only used to return to their country of origin. There is also a high loss rate in some groups. We regularly confiscate these documents with the wrong identity abroad, i.e. they are used as travel documents for other people to enter the country. Therefore, there is no reason to say that this is not a question that needs to be considered more strongly how we regulate, how we practice, and how we implement any changes in this area. In my opinion, it is relatively in terms of access to respond to the abuse of the asylum institute and the misuse of Norwegian travel documents with the legislation we have. It is that you can interpret and carry out virtually all the reactions as long as there is an assessment of the individual cases, if people have returned. It is also true that the legislation has been used to deprive people of the ex-post status of asylum, and the legislation has been used at times to restrict travel to more countries than the home country, i.e. that travel restrictions to neighbouring countries have also been imposed for individual periods. What can be said about the legislation is enough that it is relatively far, but that it should perhaps also be more specific and concrete in some areas by saying that in certain situations it must therefore be a general rule that there is a greater degree of restrictions on travel documents. In the revised national budget, we have reported back to the Storting that we will implement it, and we will not least assess situations and regulate legislation more strongly when it is discovered that there is a high level of abuse in some areas, or a high frequency of return journeys, so that it automatically implies defining for the future a further area as a restriction for repatriation. Per. Today, there are two areas where this has been a major problem, and these are the two areas where we have had major influxes of refugees and asylum seekers from Somalia and Iraq. For the two areas in common it has been that they have not had a national authority which has had border control and that therefore the actual entry is not checked at the border. But it can be controlled by travelling to neighbouring countries. In such situations, it is important to be more clearly stated in the legislation that restrictions on travel documents apply to a wider circle/country, because it is simply impossible to control the individual country only when there are no authorities that will carry out border stamping or have a check. It is one of my intentions to implement, possibly also regulatoryly stronger, as today's management of the foreign administration has to be done through regulatory fastening, so that you can also have some routines and guidelines to follow. We also consider stronger responses to the misuse of travel documents, particularly related to the renewal of the documents. It is, of course, difficult, because it will also be seen as unreasonable for people who have clearly just lost or been stolen from their documents. But we know from some areas that there is a relatively large trade in Norwegian travel documents like travel papers around the country. We're looking there for the good, but also fair regulatory mechanisms to do something about it. In this area, as in all other areas, we must also adhere to the international conventions we are bound by in relation to protection and human rights. This means that if an asylum seeker has left the country, and we have closed the case by considering it to be drawn, the problem will arise next time you cross the border and seek asylum. Then you have a Conventional right to have your case reopened. Of course, the previous treatment will weigh heavily, and it is quite possible that you can treat it quickly. However, it is also necessary to assess the content of the case, and asylum seekers must have a very clear explanation of why they have left the country, where they have been during that period, in order to make it clear that they are not doing what is the main reason why we are restrictive, namely that they actually demonstrate by their own behaviour that there is no need for protection. But we cannot exclude that people are allowed to promote their application. I have to admit that I sometimes think that is a problem. We've talked about television experiences several times. For me, there is still an almost 11⁄2 year old picture on the Internet, a picture of a person from Estonia who had been sent out for the fifth time with a police card and who showed a V-sign and said ‘I’ll be back’. As an asylum seeker, there is a person on whom, of course, we simply have to establish a case, even if the case is quickly rejected and the person is sent out again. That's one of the problems we per. Today, but we do not have the opportunity to reject and not deal with the matter, even if that type of case is dealt with very quickly. There are rights in international conventions, and we must also give the asylum seekers who are coming the opportunity to explain themselves if they have been out of the country, about why they have actually been out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e776	The President perceived it as Per Sandberg asked for the floor to reply. Replica is not available in this case, but the three-minute inserts are possible. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e781	I'm sorry I misunderstood. Then I get a little more time available. My challenge to the Council of State is to elaborate a little bit more on the use of conventions. Still away, the Progress Party meets the argument that we have some international agreements and conventions to deal with, and that's why we're kind of locked up in a corner. Then is my challenge to the Council of State: Why is it that Norway, which has ratified such conventions and agreements, is locked, while our neighbouring country is free through its foreign legislation to make such changes as the Progress Party does? I think that is an interesting issue, because it has been the argument against the amendment of the Progress Party for many years now. So I could imagine a clarification of that. Our top legal expertise has also concluded that, in relation to the principle of sovereignty, there are no international agreements or conventions that can prevent Norway from making provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act. Why, then, is it that in government or magnificence we cannot do it as our supreme legal expertise states that we can do? Why is it that the Progress Party, which is promoting these proposals, is constantly criticised by the Council of State for having a different agenda? When we make suggestions – which we do regardless of whether we have 4 pst. on polls, or if we have 30 pst. in the polls – is the only rhetorical answer the Council of State has, that every time the Progress Party experiences 11⁄2 pst. We are bringing forward immigration policy, despite the fact that the Council of State knows that this is a priority area for us. The United Kingdom has introduced similar changes. Denmark does, and perhaps in the long term this will become rules that the EU adopts. Then I have a new challenge to the Council of State. It is true that it is revised that the Council of State and the Government promise that they will do something about it. In 2000, we were fully aware of the situation. In 1998, we were fully aware of the situation. But in 2000, the Stoltenberg government took some action. Why is it not that we, in general and in government, can make decisions in contexts where we see the problems? Why are we going to have bureaucrats working for four to five years to make changes that we can actually do immediately, when the Council of State in revision says you are so fully aware of the problem? There are several aspects of the investigation of the problem. Then why can't we make the changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e792	I believe that this is not a matter of proposals from the Progress Party or of possible developments in opinion polls by the Progress Party. I just notice that sometimes Per Sandberg goes very high on the track in these cases and claims that we are not doing anything in matters that we are actually doing anything about. What we have done in the revised national budget is to report back on the decision taken by the Stortinget in previous years, asking for a review of the case and what we in the Government have done about it. There we've listed what we're going to do. I mentioned some of it in my post. We now have a review of UDI's and UNE's practices in issuing travel documents and practices in relation to making geographical restrictions on travel documents. So this has led to the possibility that we now need to get a regulation that specifies more clearly when we need to make further restrictions on travel documents to make sure that, within what you have permission to do, you actually use the home with clearer control. That's also the answer to why you can't make decisions in this room and then expect it to stand. Because once it has been decided that the foreign area is governed by laws and regulations, it must be governed by law. Today, either legislative proposals are being promoted in Norway to make governance changes in the foreign area, or we need to use the piece of legislation that allows us to write regulations. And unfortunately, it takes time to make regulations. It is such that, according to investigation instructions, consultation is required. It shall be reviewed and it shall take an average of nine months to establish a regulation to make changes. I have notified that I am coming back to Stortinget with a review of the management relationship in the foreign area, because I believe this is an area of so much discretion that this form of management no longer works. Not that we're going to go back to the old system, with appeals to the ministry on individual matters, but we need to have a greater degree of opportunity to define and interpret law, in line with the understanding of the laws Stortinget wanted, without going through a longer regulatory round. So I actually agree with Per Sandberg that sometimes, like in this area, it seems to be a heavy instrument to use when it comes to being able to interpret the law and give a real and simple instruction to the Foreign Affairs Directorate on how to practice in this area. So the question of conventions. We can formally break international conventions, but then we break international conventions. We can make laws that violate international conventions or interpret them in other ways, and then maybe the interpretation of what prevails in the judiciary will eventually end up in the Norwegian Supreme Court. So let's move it over there. I am not going to go along with the fact that these rules have not been implemented in Denmark or England, that asylum seekers are automatically rejected because they have been at home in their country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e803	Per Sandberg has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e806	I'm not going to run any more polemics with the Council of State. But I record that the argument changes every time the Council of State defends its training of progress in the matter. I have noticed that in the future, the Progress Party will present proposals for new regulations and legislative changes. It's going to be fun to see what argument the Council of State has in that context. I just want to be allowed to comment on something that was said by the representative of the Christian People's Party that the Progress Party is not on the note where it says that the majority of the Committee "considers it important that the institution of asylum and respect for the institution of asylum should be maintained". But we do not want it to be preserved as it is today. We want respect for the institution of asylum to be strengthened. We do not want to keep it the way it is today, because today the respect for the asylum institution is sparse. It's all ruined. In order to strengthen respect for the institution of asylum, we need to make some demands and make some changes to the law, which, based on the debate and the opinion of the Council of State, I understand will take many, many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e813	I just want to correct Per Sandberg. It won't take many years to make changes to a regulation. It takes approx. nine months of consultation and other matters. It is the governance conditions that have been set up in this way. If we're going to discuss who changes the argument in the case, I think Per Sandberg is a teacher in it when we discuss the foreign field. It's hard to keep a continuous discussion on the theme that's set. In particular, I think it is problematic when you constantly mix up a number of other issues. I want to say that the asylum institute believes that everyone in this room is concerned about preserving. But that means that everyone should have a right to assess their protection basis. If it turns out that during the asylum period a person has a ill cousin in an asylum recipient in Germany, it would be wise for that person to notify UDI before travelling. In fact, I do not believe that we can take the right of asylum from a person who has done so, but then the person must explain where he has been and can document it. But to deprive a person of the right to asylum to do something like that, I actually think to draw the restrictions too far.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e820	I believe that I clearly stated that we must maintain respect for the institution of asylum, we must ensure that it reacts when this institution is abused. I agree that if we just allow it to be abused, respect for the institution of asylum is weakened. Doing what the Christian People's Party recommended will be a strengthening of the Institute of Asylum. In this way, we agree with the Progress Party that the institution of asylum should be strengthened. There's no disagreement in that area. But we disagree on how to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e825	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3072]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e841	This is a matter of adapting to an EEA Directive. Even if there is a co-consultant committee behind the setting, I will be allowed to express a few comments. Mainly, cases are about establishing a general framework with minimum requirements for the right worker to information and consultation when it comes to the economic situation, the development plans, the employment situation in the enterprise and decisions that might lead to significant changes in the recruitment options. It may look like a small matter, but it is still important to it. This Directive will not prevent the statutory rights agreed on nationally in relation to health, the working environment and safety, or, for that matter, the right to representation in the governing body. Finally, I would also like to add that I am very pleased that this is a matter for which the Publicly Designated Labour Law Committee has been given the task of submitting proposals when it comes to implementing the Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e856	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[For fully formatted text, see page 3073]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e872	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e879	With one exception, it's a unanimous committee that's behind the whole setting. In one area, the Progress Party has promoted a minority proposal, which is in its position. The background to the case is that DnB Holding ASA and Mutual NOR ASA have negotiated a plan to merge the two banks. The ratio is that today the state owns 47.78 pst. of the shares in DnB Holding through the Staten Bank Investment Fund. Today, it is authorised to reduce this holding to 34 pst. The proposal to integrate the two companies implies that current shareholders of DnB Holding ASA will own 58.8 pst. by the merged group, while the shareholders of today’s Mutual NOR ASA will own the remaining one. This means that the State’s ownership interest will initially be reduced to less than 34 pst. In the case, it is assumed that the State will maintain its ownership interest of 34 p.m. in the new financial group. This may be done by a rectified issue or by the purchase of shares in the market or in the so-called secondary market. This is done at that time, provided that it is combined with a shareholder agreement which ensures the need for control by the State during a transitional period. The majority agrees with the conclusion that, during a transitional period following the completion of the merger, the State may have a lower holding, with the exception of 28 pst. in DnB Holding ASA, which the acquiring company provides for a negotiated draft terms of merger. Furthermore, the Storting agrees that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade may charge the purchase of shares of the new company and include the addition of necessary equity capital to the State Bank Investment Fund in order to reach a holding of 34 p.m. At the same time, we are currently considering a draft resolution proposing amendments to the State Bank Investment Fund Act, which proposes proposals that will also be passed with unison consent to amend the Banking Investment Fund Act so that the investment fund can also purchase shares in the secondary market. The aim is to give the state greater flexibility in getting through an arrangement to ensure 34 pst. participation in the new financial group. I intend to underline this as very important, also in the context that in the ownership message that has previously been treated by Stortinget, we highlighted non-discrimination as an important factor. one in ten principles of good ownership, and also good state ownership. I am therefore pleased that we have obtained a solution in which the State can purchase shares on the stock exchange or in the secondary market after the merger may have been completed, and that any concession has been put in place. Finally, I would just like to stress that the Norwegian financial market has also changed significantly over the last few years. The previously demarcated national markets are now, at best, Nordic or also fully international markets. New technological solutions and the removal of regulatory barriers to cross-border activities by administrations have helped to strengthen competition in the financial sector. It is also to meet these challenges that DnB and Mutual NOR wish to merge. The main focus of the group, as it is produced, will be on the Norwegian market in the first place, but the group will also have a greater strength that will allow for expansion beyond the borders of Norway. It becomes a rough figure in Norwegian and Nordic contexts. The Committee notes that the new entity will receive administrative capital of DKK 1070 billion. It concerns 11 600 annual works. Based on the stock exchange value of 17 March, the company will have a value of NOK 39 billion and will then be the sixth largest financial group in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e898	The country's largest and second largest banking rates for the creation of a larger unit through aggregation. In this context, a Merger Agreement was concluded on 18 March between the Boards of Directors of DnB and Mutual NOR. It is understandable that the draft terms of merger have arrived. The reasons set out in the proposal include the significant changes that have taken place in the Norwegian financial market. Local and national markets have been replaced by cross-border activities and increased competition also in the financial sector. The amount is advanced as a possible competitive advantage. The most obvious benefits of a merger are the rationalisation gains, in addition to the fact that the new group DnB NOR, by its size and strength, will promote the possibility of constructing a Norwegian-based capital management environment. Furthermore, expansion is possible in specific business areas outside the borders of the country. Development opportunities will depend entirely on the ability of the new group to win positions through its own competence. After all, the merged company will have only half of the administrative capital of the Svenska Handelsbanken and one third of Nordea's administrative capital, which took over the Bank of Credit. The Progress Party supports the proposed merger between DnB Holding and Mutual NOR. In this regard, I would like to recall what an overall committee expressed in the form of an observation when dealing with the notification of ownership. All parties agreed that it is important for the State to contribute to ensuring professional and head offices in Norway. Competences are brought together at the head office and important strategic decisions relevant to the activities of the group are taken there. The Progress Party believes that a strong Norwegian anchoring in key sectors such as the financial industry can be beneficial to the other business activities in the country. A lot of people talk about having strong Norwegian units that can take care of Norwegian interests. A large and heavy Norwegian financial player is now becoming a reality. It's positive, because we have to expect remote banks to make completely different assessments of Norwegian companies because they're not familiar with them and the Norwegian business culture. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that it is now set up a powerful Norwegian unit that can also compete in Nordic contexts and that can develop a potential for further growth. Here the device with a blocking state ownership is central to ensuring Norwegian connectivity. History shows that this is necessary. Ten years ago, a decision was taken by a magnificence that we should have three strong banking environments in this country, as well as regional and local banks. Now it's just DnB again, and it's probably because the bank has had a state feature since the banking crisis in the early 1990s. Today's attitude shows that Stortinget sees it as desirable with a large Norwegian financial group where the state retains control over where the head office is to be located. Now let's hope that rationalization gains, economies of scale and increased strength will not only turn out positive by creating values for the owners. Let us hope and believe that the merger will be a joy also for depositors, borrowers and policy holders in the form of better service and services at reasonable prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e913	The President is somewhat uncertain whether Hedstrøm intended to raise the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e916	Thank you for that reminder, sir. President. I forgot. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party that have been referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e923	The representative of Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e926	I would like to comment on one aspect of this matter, and it is about state control. Today, we have a government that wants to sell in areas by area, which wants to remove state control over key social institutions. For us in SV, it is unusually important that the state owns many of the areas of society that are important to the country. It concerns infrastructure, such as telecommunications, rail, electricity, but also important natural resources. We also believe that we should have control of a bank as large as this is about. That's why we're very concerned that we don't have to sell ourselves below 34 pst. Thus we made an agreement with the Government for approx. One year ago we said that DnB would not sell below 34 pst. I always have that agreement on the inside pocket, because it's good to bring it up sometimes when you have questions about it. Now it was just a merger, and we have understood in conversation with the government parties that the agreement is legally signed, sail whether this merger has been concluded. But you kind of get a little interval where you sell yourself a short period of time down to 28 pst, while waiting for you to buy up in the market. And it's proven to be acceptable. But if not, an issue is to be made. And I have understood it this way on the representative of Kristiansen that it is firm: if you cannot buy up, it will be a corrected issue within the time limit mentioned in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e933	A draft terms of merger have been negotiated by the Norwegian Bank and the Ghent-Side NOR for the two banks. This is important and essential to ensure national ownership in the financial sector. It is also of great value that the Stortinget now appears to gather on the support of a cohesive person for this initiative. Now we get a big and important actor in Norway and Norway. In this case, it is proposed to grant authority to reduce the ownership of the State down to 34 p.m., while requesting that the State may have a lower ownership, but not less than 28 p.m., during a transitional period. At the same time, two solutions are outlined for how one can buy up again and thus secure the country's ownership interests in the best possible way. It is important to stress the importance of maintaining and developing existing environments around the parties to the merger in Bergen and Trondheim. In the Odelsting later today, this is followed by a change in the State Bank Investment Fund Act as a result of the merger between DnB and Mutual NOR. This is because the state allows a hall of 34 pst. the owner and opens up that during a transitional period one may still have ownership rights down to 28 pst. In order to ensure that the State will be able to re-purchase to 34 p.m., one of them may participate in a proper issue and/or purchase axes in the market, combined with a shareholder agreement providing for control by the State. This should be the answer to Mr Ryan's question in the previous article. Since the State's Bank Investment Fund is not able to buy shafts in the other market today, the change in law it will open up will increase the flexibility of the state when it comes to choosing which scheme a will to secure the ownership. It therefore appeared reasonable that the State Bank Investment Fund would be able to acquire shafts and other equity instruments out of Norwegian banks and from parent companies of the Norwegian financial group in which the bank is incorporated, irrespective of whether the instruments are subscribed for in an issue or are acquired in the other market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e944	It is a unanimous committee which is behind the suspension, whereby the Ministry of Industry and Trade is authorised to increase the State’s holdings in DnB and Mutual to 34 pst. after merger. This vote and this proposal for a decision are very pleased with the Central Party. A state ownership is necessary in order to maintain a national ownership. Without a state blocking share, we would undoubtedly have ended that bank — just as for a number of the other banks, including the banks. The right has been the driver of sales — after a relatively short time would have come on foreign hands. It's not the merger we're dealing with in the Storting today, it's the state's ownership. However, I would like to make a few comments about the merger, as it is a unanimous attitude with regard to the state holding. Over the course of a few years, we have experienced a strong concentration in the Norwegian financial industry. The lack of banking structures has disappeared, and it undoubtedly has implications for the risk assessment and the credit profile on which banks have now committed themselves. In recent times, we have seen that DnB has bought up the Nordlandsbanken, and we now get a merger between the two big giants in the Norwegian financial world, DnB and Mutual. So it's independent banks with an independent risk and credit assessment that are now merging. It implies uniformity, and it means that few persons are required to assess risks in relation to different parts of the country and in relation to different industries. The consequences of this are certain that we both know, for example: housing financing and industrial finance could be at risk of geographical areas and industries having problems with financing. We now see that in the fishing industry, one of our most important industries for the future, where banks withdraw their fingers, and how very few people are responsible for the risk assessment. We also experience that housing funding, even on the outskirts of Tromsø City, is difficult to obtain from those banks that are not locally represented and that are far away. This is a development that we should be very much aware of if we want to maintain a local business and maintain a scattered settlement. Some of that diversity disappears with the uniformity that we now get within the banking system. So it's like the representative Hedstrom mentioned in his post. What we now experience within the merged banks is also a form of remote control. But that is after all – I also have to admit – a remote control that is better than if these banks had come on foreign hands and you had to go to a head office in Stockholm or in Copenhagen to get credit for Norwegian business and Norwegian housing financing. Of course, a merger involving a Norwegian solution is better than if one of these banks had been sold out. So finally, Mutual NOR was the savings bank that paved the way for savings banks to use the form of share company in their organisation. A majority in Stortinget endorsed it a year ago, despite warnings, among others. from the Centre Party on what that development would lead to. Mutual NOR was the first savings bank to use the form of a limited liability company, and is also the first savings bank that has been merged into a commercial bank as a result of an organisational model that facilitates the purchase in the way we have now seen. Unfortunately, there is good reason to believe that even other savings banks will eventually fall, with the decision taken by the Stortinget in that area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e961	The state is a significant owner in Norwegian business, and the government is emphasising on acting as a professional owner in the various companies where we have holdings. Furthermore, it is an objective to reduce the influence of the State on Norwegian business. The development of a more professional ownership involves, inter alia: to decide on the industrial development of companies, particularly in situations where the owner must express his views through the general meeting. The merger between DnB and Mutual NOR to DnB NOR is such a case. The State currently owns 47.78 pst through the State Bank Investment Fund. of the shares in DnB. The government has announced in the ownership notification that it wants to reduce its ownership interest to 34 p.m., in line with previous decisions in the Stortinget. It is against this background that the Government has proposed that the State should have a holding of 34 p.m. of the merged group DNB NOR ASA. The proposal implies that during a transitional period the ownership of the State may be down to 28 pst. However, through an agreement between the State Bank Investment Fund and the Mutual NOR Foundation, we have ensured control of material circumstances for a period that is considered sufficient to achieve 34 pst again. At the same time, a proposal for an amendment to the State Bank Investment Fund Act allowing the fund to acquire shares in the secondary market has been submitted. This will provide more flexibility to achieve the 34 pst target. holding in DNB NOR ASA. It's like the owner we've taken a decision on this merger. It is then important that it is well-founded in business and industrial terms. Merging the two financial groups will provide significant opportunities for rationalisation and improved capacity for profitability and growth. The merger will also enhance competitiveness and contribute to job security in the long term. The Board of Directors of the two companies has warned that the merger also involves extensive redundancies, which will be sought by natural departure and voluntary arrangements. The concession treatment of relevant public authorities will be done in an ordinary manner. Furthermore, knowledge capital held by financial institutions is of major importance for the competitiveness of Norwegian business. A merger between DnB and Mutual NOR will result in a Norwegian financial group of the size of Nordic competitors, with a clear Norwegian anchor. It was not possible to wait to hold the general meetings of DnB Holding ASA and Mutual NOR ASA until after the Storting had dealt with St.prp. No 59. It was therefore necessary for me to instruct the fund to vote in favour of the proposed merger. I would like to explain the instructions of the fund in the next appropriate pooling proposal, under the State Bank Investment Fund Act. On 20 May, the General Assembly of DnB ASA adopted a directed issue against the State Bank Investment Fund of up to 117 million shares. By drawing in this, the state can secure 34 pst. ownership. However, if the Storting adopts the Government's proposal today, the State Bank Investment Fund and the Ministry will have the opportunity to purchase shares in the secondary market. The Ministry of Economic Affairs, in consultation with the State Bank Investment Fund, will keep an ongoing assessment of which of these alternatives ensures the best interests of the State. On this basis, we will ensure that the acquisition of new shares is carried out as far as possible in a way that is considered positive by other market players as well. I would like to make a little clarification in relation to Innst. S. No 212, which we are now dealing with. It is apparent from the recommendation that the agreement between the Staten Bankvejensfonds and the Foundation of Mutual NOR Sparebank is assumed to be valid for 18 months from the General Assembly Decision, according to the suspension, the agreement shall be valid for up to 18 months from the date of signature. where it is formally from the date of signature, i.e. until 6 October 2004. I further note from the recommendation that the Committee assumes that the State has acquired 34 pst. of the shares in DnB NOR ASA at the end of the agreement with the formation and that, if this has not occurred, a rectified issue must be facilitated. A directed issue that results in dilution of the other shareholders requires a two-thirds majority at the general meeting. I therefore stress that it is not that the state is in a position to condition itself for a fixed issue at that time. By supporting the proposal submitted, the Storting provides the necessary flexibility in terms of instruments to reach a state holding of 34 p.m. in DNB NOR ASA. I consider it almost entirely unlikely that, at the end of the agreement with the foundation, the State should not have acquired a sufficient number of shares. The half-year should be sufficient. If such a situation should nevertheless arise, I will come back to Stortinget with proposals on how the state should act.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1000	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1003	The last state council said is essentially one of the most important things. For what has been contained in the agreement we have with the Government, and that goes from the cancellation, is that the state should have 34 pst. of that merged company. We have accepted that you can buy up in the market. It is possible to save money on it, and it is possible that this could be an appropriate way, but we assume without delay that it means that at the end of the period you should have reached 34 pst. To the extent that it shouldn't happen that you get a fixed issue to get up to 34 pst. – when the Council of State now says that they do not have the necessary number of votes to impose this, and that he will then come back in an appropriate way to ensure it – we assume without delay that it must become a reality. For what lies both in the agreement and in the decision of the Stortinge, is that one should not drain the state's ownership under 34 p.m., and that simply in the light of the experience we have from state-owned banks over the past few years. The credit fund and Focus Bank are two good examples of Norwegian banks in which the State has had significant holdings, which have been sold, and which today have head offices in Helsinki and Copenhagen respectively. I'm not going to draw the whole story about the bank manager in the 1990s and how the state became a big bank owner. If this bank becomes a happiness for Norwegian society, it remains to be seen. This will be a giant on a Norwegian scale. On a Nordic scale, it will also be a significant bank. In the European context, there will be a small and relatively small bank. But there is no goal for us to win Nordic or European championships in bank size. What's important is that we have banks that serve Norwegian society. That this will be a happiness for the shareholders, is raised beyond doubt. But what should be the stand of the Greatness, and which must be the stand of the Greatness, is what serves the society we are set to serve. At my discretion, it remains to be seen. Let me say it this way: it's up to the merged bank DnB NOR to show that this becomes a bank that serves the society it's set to serve. Whether this is a happiness remains to be seen, as I said, but I'm not going to take that whole story now. I just want to underline this one important point: at the moment that we no longer have controlling minorities in this bank, we know from experience that the bank can well be sold. The credit card is a good example in this way. That bank wasn't even for sale. The government didn't only have 34 pst. They had over 60 pst. in that bank. Nevertheless, Stortinget chose to sell when there was a bid. I am pleased that a unanimous Storting is behind the setting. I am pleased that the agreement we have with the Government is followed up. I assume without a doubt that the Minister of Industry will come to Stortinget at the end of this period, given that there are no 34 p.m., as the Council of State has assured the Stortinget. This means that the agreement is followed, and we are satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1012	We have received a certain focus on this with the purchase in the second-hand market versus a fixed issue. I don't think the doubt requested here by the representative of Djupedal is going to hang in the air, because there's a reasoning behind what is proposed, which the whole committee has taken into account, not just to avoid creating doubt. An agreement has been reached between the Mutual NOR Sparebank Foundation and the Staten Bank Investment Fund which is not misunderstanding and which there is no reason to doubt. When the Council of State also stressed that he considered it quite unlikely that during an 18-month period one would not be able to purchase up to 34 p.m., and also considering the economic back pocket that some people would like to point out that any Council of State, especially in this context, is equipped, this reasoning and this agreement should not be questioned. The more lucid justification is that the state also has to act with a clean shareholder policy. In this context, where we see that one after another points out that Norwegian politicians are able to talk down the value of Norwegian companies almost every time they ask for the word, we have to try to avoid creating this doubt. Not only the fact that, by means of a corrected issue, the dilution of shares to a significant extent is ensured, but also when, by acting in the second-hand market on the basis of today’s exchange value, the Norwegian State will probably save NOK 1.5 billion, I would recommend that there is no contribution to creating doubts that these two economic giants – at least in Norway – are able to enter into a commitment around the agreement that has actually been concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1021	I will not go into a debate on outside matters, but concentrate on what is this matter. When I said what I said, it's most natural for me to point out the theoretical possibility that Djupedal pointed out, and that's a reality that we have to relate to. But precisely because it's a theoretical possibility, we've already prepared the strategy in relation to what we're going to do at the moment when the president drops the club when voting has happened, in order for it to become a completely unnecessary issue. What we're going to do is purchase is on such a scale that 18 months have been considered a very liberal period in relation to such a large unit as this, with such a liquid share as this. I believe that both in the debate and to the extent that in retrospect, there is little reason to stress the theoretical possibility. I can see that it's a completely unisonous magnification that means we need to secure 34 pst. By adopting what is the Government's proposal, I have the powers to do so, and we already have a strategy to do so, so that this 18-month perspective becomes completely out of date. I would also like to point out that there are relatively many conflicting views between this foundation and the state on why we should have this ownership. What is contained in this agreement is crystal clear, and there are, in reality, conflicting objectives, so that all doubts should be blotted out. At the moment when the president lets the club fall, as I said, we are starting to implement what is here the Storting's will.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1032	Let me just stress that I am very pleased with the statement that the Council of State has now made. That means that we assume from our side that these 18 months are sufficient to acquire approximately. 6 pst. of the shares that may exist in the open market. But given the situation that this cannot be done – and it is clear that this is a liquid and easily negotiable share, but 6 pst. of such a large volume is nevertheless a quite significant number of shares to be placed on the market – I am satisfied with the insurance provided by the Council of State. Let me just briefly also repeat to the representative Kristiansen, who had an article that I didn't understand at all by: what we're talking about here is an emphasis on state ownership, a repositioning of the state's wealth to ensure an important instrument in the construction of society of Norway, namely a large private bank with a state element. Of course, we have no interest in so questioning this bank's competence or talking down the course – or what it was now the representative Kristiansen managed to say. We are engaged in a long-term, secure ownership that the state represents in this context. All the experience from the banking crises in the last two decades shows that the only guarantee we have for this is that the state has a significant holding. This is also satisfied with the Bank. There has been no hesitation at all for the bank in the expansion and development that DnB has undergone. Mutuals today do not have a State feature, they will have it, but Mutuals have also chosen to enter into merger negotiations with a limited liability company after they themselves have chosen to ask for a change from a basic fund company to a limited liability company. That means that Mutuals will now also be part of the state portfolio. We are pleased with that, simply because we support the company as a limited company and we could easily have experienced what you have experienced with both the Focus Bank and the Credit Fund, namely that foreign freers came and also bought Mutual NOR out of Norway. This means that given all the cards for which SV is not always so happy are given, the outcome of this case is the best possible, seen from the position of the nation of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1039	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4 [[See page 3073]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1054	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party 10 minutes each and the Center Party, the Left and the Coast Party 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to five lines with replies after the speeches by the main speakers of each party group, and after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1065	In Document No: 8:64 it is proposed to submit an independent status report on the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. An assessment of whether the Centre has progressed in line with Storting's intentions is sought. Furthermore, an analysis of the concept and suitability of the project as a food policy instrument is desired. The reasons for the proposal by the Socialist Left are among other things: focusing on a project batch believes that the objectives and visions that have been launched are missing. The party believes that the establishment of the knowledge centre took place on the basis of assumptions about the Centre's industrial policy effects that had limited realism. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party support the Socialist Left Party's proposal for a status report for the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party refer to their primary position in the establishment of a knowledge centre, but otherwise they do not give any reason why they want a status report at this point in time. I believe that the respective representatives of the parties will elaborate their views and views in the debate. The Labour Party and the Advance Party constituted the majority behind the decision to realise the Centre through a joint ownership between the State and private stakeholders. The proposal of the Socialist Left claims that IT Fornebu would spend five years developing the innovation spirit that Silicon Valley has spent 60 years achieving. The Workers' Party and the Advance Party consider that in their comments on the adjustment, it is appropriate to clarify what are the realities of time perspective and development. The majority took its decision on 7 March 2000. After the agreement, it would take eight weeks for IT for Fornebu Eiendom AS to take over the plot at Fornebu. However, the acquisition was suspended due to the review of the contract work by the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, and open rights between the State and the Municipality of Oslo. Accordingly, the acquisition took place on 29 June 2001, i.e. 16 months after the decision of the Storting and 14 months after the proposed acquisition date. IT Fornebu Eiendom has thus had the property available for one year and eleven months. During this period, the Fornebu terminal building has been rebuilt, a comprehensive plan for the development of the IT and knowledge and innovation centre has been developed, and the activity has started with tenants in research and industrial activities. In addition, IT Fornebu has been developing a contact network specifically for the regional knowledge park environment and has carried out several projects to facilitate the long-term interaction between research, education and business activities within the knowledge centre. An example is the establishment of IT Fornebu Incubator AS, probably Norway's most productive incubator for innovation enterprises. What has been suggested regarding the development of the Centre? In May 1999, IT Fornebu writes in its offer to set up a knowledge and innovation centre at Fornebu that it wants to have developed one of Europe’s most attractive knowledge and innovation centres by 2005. This was based on the fact that the first projects could be completed in 2000, i.e. one year after the proposed acquisition and that phase 1 of the expansion would be completed in 2005. If the objective of this deferral project is to be adjusted, Phase 1 must be completed in mid-2007. Phase 2 of this expansion was planned to take a new five-year period, so it will now be possible to implement it in mid-2012. The main point in this context is that the Centre has always been foreseen as a long-term project. Both the State and the private have agreed on the clear assumption that an environment for knowledge-intensive innovation should be gradually built and that the knowledge centre should be developed into an innovation village in the long term. The agreement between IT Fornebu and IT Fornebu Eiendom shows that the project has a 15-year perspective. The main agreement between the State and IT Fornebu Technoport refers to this cooperation agreement for the concreteisation of IT Fornebu and IT Fornebu Eiendom's obligations to realise the Centre's vision and objectives. Furthermore, the proposers believe that the project has been found to suffer from a lack of tenants, that the belief in the project has disappeared, and that criticism of the Centre's suitability as a political instrument has been raised. With regard to the tenant situation, the terminal building has been completed with 10000 m2 of office space and 13 000 m2 of new premises have been completed recently. The first 10,000 m2 is rented out, and you now have, with the last six new tenants in May, a total of 13 000 m2 of the 23 000 m2 that are completed. The centre has now slowly but surely built up an environment of small businesses, mainly in the IT sector, a highly competent research centre – the Simula Centre – and an incubator. Thus, the IT centre has actually started in terms of both the number of tenants and not least the composition of tenants, although there is a lot left. However, it should be emphasised that the rental situation is not the same as some years ago. This problem wears IT Fornebu with, as well as Telenor and the rest of the Lysaker environment. But the problem is not isolated for this project or this region. The same problem is faced throughout the Oslo region, as well as in the larger cities. The IT Fornebu initiative would thus face a problem in the future if it were based on short-term economic gains. However, the situation is such that this project is based on a long-term investment and the companies are capitalised in such a way that fluctuations in the market are overcome. The fact that IT Fornebu Property continues the completion of the terminal building shows that it is building for a future market, i.e. that it is in a position to offer good premises in a complex environment of research, education and business when demand is gradually coming back. IT Fornebu thus maintains the vision even in times of decline, precisely in recognition that at such times it is really important to try to create a basis for the development of future business. The Labour Party and the Advance Party will stress that there was a broad upturn – all parties except the Socialist Left – to establish an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. The assumptions made by the Stortinget by decision have been implemented as far as possible during the short period of time and in the current circumstances. Nor has anything happened that suggests that there is a need for a status review or reassessment by Stortinget. More unrest and doubt can only help to damage the development of the centre. If such a review and assessment had been sought on a holistic basis, several lots would have been positive. We would support a structure that included an analysis and status report of the many investments made in Norway in the form of research parks and commercial gardens, etc., e.g. directed by SIVA. A comprehensive review of the experience of different centres of expertise should not only provide an assessment of the past but also of knowledge that can serve as a contribution to strengthening Norwegian business life in the coming period. A comprehensive evaluation that analyses experience from knowledge centres and makes assessments of trends rather than one-sided assessment of the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu, where the properties were acquired 23 months ago and are in a start-up phase, will be valuable. A survey of experiences and lessons learnt from such initiatives will also be useful input into a debate on the use of instruments in Norwegian business. Such analyses are used for industrial policy in many other countries. On behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, I would like to address the proposals No. 1 and 2, which is referenced in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1099	The representative Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he himself has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1102	I mean, budget-inner. S. No 2 for 1997-1998 by the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, can read as follows: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the member of the Socialist Left Party, supports the plans for the establishment of a national IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. The aim is to create a centre of international importance to contribute to new industrial activities and new educational functions in interactions between research, education and industry. The majority place a crucial emphasis on networking that ensures an adequate flow of information and competences between the international, national and local environments.’» A large majority in Stortinget agreed on this and had visions for the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. As Per Morten Vigtel, secretary of the Norwegian Investor Forum, says in a chronicle in VG today: ‘IT Fornebu is, in fact, an attempt to create a concept that will enable all research parks to realise what they wanted – to attract private, competent investors to this type of project.’ SV has consistently opposed the establishment of the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. They've clearly expressed it repeatedly. But sometimes one can wonder how many rematches you will take in Stortinget if a matter you disagree with. This only leads to negative results and negative mention of an industry that is currently struggling, and that should instead have a lift. The IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu feels that I am such a case. As the majority of the committee says in the comments, this is the tenth time we are dealing with this IT centre, and yet the proposers say that the centre was never properly evaluated. Now I do not have all the documents on this matter, but when you think about all the treatments that have been, you might well say that this is a wrong description of the matter. However, a detailed description of the number of jobs, the number of enterprises, etc. was never given. to be established, and over how long, but the IT centre was planned and adopted when the IT industry was on its way up and all lived in the clouds. After that, a lot has happened in the market. There have been bankruptcies, and many of those who then worked in the IT industry are either unemployed or have found work in other industries. I think it is sad that we are going to discuss this matter again, and that it is demanded that the knowledge centre should get up and stand as soon as possible, as the rapporteur mentioned in his statement. Otherwise, I can tell you that during the summer, five new tenants will move into this area, and these will fill up a new 3,200 m2. All five of them are IT companies. In this regard, market leader Kjetil Krutnes of IT Fornebu Eiendom says the following to Computerworld on June 2, i.e. a few days ago: ‘In today’s market, we are well pleased with a significant increase in the rented area. The somewhat gloomy picture that is sometimes drawn by IT Fornebu in the media, does not entirely match our perception. The IT Fornebu project is on the right track.» I think it's sad that we're always going to give negative signals to the media and the outside world about IT Fornebu. It doesn't make it any easier for those who are going to attract new businesses. But as the article in Computerworld shows, fortunately, there are some people who don't care about the negative review, fortunately there are some who see a future for IT Fornebu, and who say as Executive Director Erik Lothe in Systek, one of the companies that are going to move in: ‘IT Fornebu can offer a technological environment today and we think the centre can be very good in the future. There are several interesting companies here that we would like to cooperate with." In addition, there is reason to pay tribute to the Ministry of Industry, which did not object to the establishment of a medical centre at Fornebu. This makes the center even more attractive for businesses to move to. We note that the majority are in favour of a progress report on the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu within one year, that a focus should be placed on assessing whether the development of the centre is in line with Storting’s intentions, and on analysing the concept of the project as a commercial policy instrument. It is difficult to carry out such an analysis when it is also necessary to take into account what has happened in business. But I hope that such a status report will at least lead to something positive, making it a positive case, so that the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu can have a future and can develop as Stortinget wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1140	Initially, I would just like to ask you why you so dubiously struggle to get a status review of this matter. If there's any reason to be afraid or afraid, I have some understanding of it, but this proposal by the Socialist Left should really have been unanimous. I also record, when I hear the representatives Hedstrøm and Fossli, that the main argument that it didn't work out as it was supposed to be is a sort of ‘bad timing’. We should not underestimate that, in fact, is an argument that one can choose to listen to, but then the term ‘bad timing’ is taken with it in all contexts, even when discussing Norwegian unemployment and other factors that one presents as best sellers in these days for why it goes as it goes. Our point has been that during the processing of the IT Fornebu case, we were of the opinion that such an establishment could best be done by selling state properties at Fornebu to the highest bidder, with a general IT guide for the use of the properties. Such a procedure would have ensured that the companies that established themselves in Fornebu would also be among those who had the greatest faith in the vision of an IT and knowledge centre, a knowledge centre that would build on a voluntary interaction between ICT-based and innovation-oriented businesses and research and development environments, which would have a positive ringing effect on the ICT sector in Norway. So the Labour Party and the Advance Party wouldn't do that. It is not with any joy, at least not with damage, you can state today that it did not work as it should have done. But it must be legal, with the political drive, when it was decided to govern the government sitting for several rounds in 1999 and 2000, to remind the Labour Party and the Progress Party of how this went. And with the political drive that was chosen, and the political designation from the Greatness of what was going to be, and should be, the upcoming winning industry in Norway, while we were given a new concept, a new pool of politicians and businessmen in the high class in Norway, there must be every reason today to remind the assembly that at least some of those who were described as puzzles, negative, against innovation, etc. warn about how this could go. It was almost decided to allocate some, who were able to obtain the vigilance and status of Norway’s best lobby organisation with direct access to those who were able to form a majority in this room on this issue. So one could almost run this majority consortium with the highest image of a Silicon Valley in Norway, or a Nokia, by referring to what had happened in Oulu, and saying that this cannot occur to you puzzles when we want to establish this on what is inside the Norwegian property area, the Fornebu Park. The fact that part of this area was to be used for equity financing of the Gardermo, I consider in this context not to have so much to do with the matter. But this illustrates a little bit how the billions of dollars hang loose in the shirt sleeves, if you're attracted to a maximum idea. One of those who succeeded in this intoxication was, of course, Fred. Olsen. He has succeeded in many areas, but mostly in the wet element. On the mainland – at least for a while – it has always been as he has postulated. Da Fred. Olsen launched its formulations in the 1999 IT Fornebus Enterprise Policy Paper, which is the full background document for the political tabloid movement which has obtained a majority from the Labour Party and the Progress Party, namely: ‘A techno-economic paradigm shift is an innovation that is so profound that it changes the value chains in almost all industries.’ ‘The issue is the need to find solutions that reduce the gap between the needs of the welfare state and the capacity of society to create values that can finance these needs.’‘Fornebu is not only a place but also an idea. Fornebu is synonymous with a pinch of new industrial policy measures based on an understanding of changing economic reality. The aim of Fornebu as an Idea is to create concrete instruments, institutions and networks to meet a number of new challenges facing Norway at the turn of the millennium.’ It was launched in 2005 that Fornebu was to appear as Europe’s most attractive knowledge centre, according to the initiators, these key economists, investors and owners in Norway, who, through their seas with the Progress Party and the Workers’ Party, got an impact in this room, which equipped the instrument with the heaviest economic instrument, SIVA, which has ever been launched and implemented in Norway, in order to create this highest level of peace. The Olsen idea in the Fornebu area, the inner file of this property in Norway. Then it has to be understood that some political want to poke in this matter, and at least get permission to ask the question: why didn't it go like that? It must be allowed to have a review in this area when we see what results a state-run, detailed policy development can give, how, by opening up the State purse, we are able to favour individual forces in front of others, which, through the instrument and on a case-by-case basis, we have to award rejection documents. It was then chosen to provide detailed information that when the Government made an area offer of 316 decks, i.e. the square meters owned by the State at Fornebu, and set the area at its disposal, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party found out that this was for puzzles – 500 decks were a more suitable area. That the then majority chose to override the Government by assigning the concept to IT Fornebu Technoport rather than to the configured Fornebu Network, is another side of the case. But when IT Fornebu Technoport found out at the same time that even 500 deacons were too puzzled, 605 deacons were more appropriate, I understand that some of the business idea after not achieving the goals you have set yourself is now more about finding out how to use and dispose of land for property development outside of Fornebu. And then you use as a heavy term here a few thousand square meters, saying that with these 20,000 m2 in the terminal building, even if it's not fully covered, it goes on. You're referring to a progress that has passed 10,000 m2. It would certainly be lacking that what was produced as the most attractive nutrient area in Norway should not appear to be relatively attractive, even in times like these. When we want a review of the case, it is also in order for it to be an example for later on, that Norwegian politicians should be careful about contributing their money bag, helping to be involved in identifying winning sectors for a few and winning sectors for the future. One should also be able to see in retrospect that we need to have an open door for anyone who wants to develop food, anywhere in this country, that it should not be the best to reach up and down, which should be the first to be able to succeed in this context. Therefore, the IT Fornebu project should be provided with the necessary lighting and, in the future, be shown as an example of how to avoid pursuing state-owned industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1171	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1174	When I hear the post from the representative of Kristiansen, it is tempting to remind him that the right was also in the majority I quoted at the beginning of my post. But I understand that it is the state contribution that makes it difficult for Kristians to accept the situation. I would like to quote from an article in Asker and Bærums Budstikke yesterday, where adm. dir. Per Kr. Jacobsen in IT Fornebu will be interviewed. He says the following: ‘I think it’s okay with a status report. But then I hope it will also look forward, and give concrete signals of what kind of changes you might want.’ It goes on to say: ‘IT Fornebu has a 15-year perspective itself. However, the extent to which the Storting or the State believes that the Centre should have developed now — i.e. in 2003 — it is difficult to find evidence of a contractual nature. Neither Jacobsen nor SVs Inge Ryan can answer that question when Budstikka asks. What a status report should actually measure the status may therefore be an interesting question.’ It is tempting to ask the representative Kristiansen the same question: What kind of status do you want?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1191	I don't think there's anyone who's been in doubt about Right skepticism on an ongoing, continuous and continuous basis to this so-called business idea that's now put into practice, leaving behind one of the heavy elements of the Norwegian agency that is likely to lose an amount of 400-500 million. kr. But I believe that what is important in this context – if you fear a status report – is that you read your own documents, your own settings, your own proposals on what IT Fornebu was to be presented as in 2005, which is Europe's leading area of knowledge and innovation. This is certainly a high goal. I think that today is all the reason to see the heaps of seas you had, the state and some economic forces in this country, and see how this has gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1198	First, for a correction. I don't think the representative Kristiansen has listened to my main post. There were unforeseen delays that could not be loaded into this centre, due to the ESA's assessments, because of the problem around the Municipality of Oslo. It gives two years of postponement from this perspective. But then back to this status report. I would like to mention that yesterday the members of the Committee received a status report from SIVA, who is interested in Fornebu by the State and who is responsible for the interests of the State. This is on page 3: ‘In addition to the process in progress. regulatory issues can be satisfied with the development of the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu.» That's what the government representative says. But what the majority now want is to get an assessment of IT fornebu as a business policy tool. Those who have followed this up know that it takes 10–15 years to develop such centres. How, then, does Kristians think that after 23 months you can do this seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1210	I have taken the trouble to read the report from SIVA on the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. Let me now ask the question differently: Is the representative Hedstrøm satisfied with what has happened at Fornebu? Is the Progress Party satisfied with what has happened around what has been presented as the largest Norwegian gloss picture over time, which was to develop out there and which would become Europe's largest clusters, when we see that there are a number of vacant office areas to develop in competition with Telenor and others? That SIVA performs in this report to settle down and say that you are satisfied that you are left with perhaps an unrealised loss of between 400 and 500 million. kr, testifies that we need to discuss this report in another forum.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1218	The representative Ivar Kristiansen said in the debate earlier today about the merger case that politicians are talking down on the value of the shares. Does not the representative of Kristiansen see that it is entirely possible to speak the reputation downwards in connection with business investment at Fornebu? The installation gives the impression that the Right has not accepted a democratic decision that has been taken. If the status report is made in the spirit of the Ivar Kristiansen post, there will be no neutral, objective status report. The installation shakes me; it gives the impression of the closest political hatred to a democratic decision. Is it the signals that a person wants to send from the Right when we now hear that more people are going to establish themselves on Fornebu? It's a bit of a welcome to a business that's struggling. I thought the Right had other interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1223	One would like to discuss something quite different from what this matter concerns, and what concerns this matter. Of course, this is not how the representative Gaundal wants to illustrate it. It has been well-known throughout what has been the many warnings on this matter, and unfortunately we just have to note that it has gone as right and others warned against. It is well known to everyone in the Norwegian business community that Right wants to organise for the Norwegian business environment, the Norwegian business community and anyone who wants to establish new and future activities. And we also want happiness at Fornebu, but we can't equip Fornebu with the heaviest economic state backpack of capital and property mass that makes all the other things we do for Norwegian business going to fade. Much of this wants the Right to correct, and we're completely... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1228	Now I'm going to have a line, but I'm starting to answer the question if I'm satisfied. The Dotcom bubble cracked just after the last decision in this room. Nasdaq was then on approx. It's 5,000, and today it's 1,500. It says something about the situation. But to the representative of Kristiansen, who is concerned with private business: how many ICT businesses in private business have gone down and home, and how many premises are available, for example. in the Lysak Environment? So after all, 13,000 of the 23,000 square meters on Fornebu are filled, we've got the Simula center with about. 50 researchers, we've got an incubator that's gone through 200 projects at Fornebu, after 23 months. But they've built premises, which was a worn-out airport, in 23 months, so it's going to be functional. So there are actually things happening, even though I'm not quite satisfied. For this with this backpack. When we look at international centers, the state's share is much larger than that of Fornebu. [[The President clubs.]] Does Kristiansen have back cover for what he says?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1237	Yeah, bubble cracked. The representative Hedstrøm is quite right in that. And I share his regrets that it went the way it went. We must therefore take this inward, and we hope that through this report we will be shown that Norwegian politicians in particular should be very careful and careful to contribute through the money bag to identify what are the upcoming winning industries. I see that the Labour Party and the Advance Party want to emerge in the field by area through the State capital bag as the nominees of future winners, either through Norwegian companies, via Norwegian companies, or by pointing to sectors that are going to be winners. It would certainly be lacking that there should not be anything left of the billion-class effort that is probably already spent on Fornebu. I think we have to agree that should be a minimum.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1242	The cord shift is over. The president thinks he's heard most of the arguments once before. And the Stortinget has a strenuous meeting program.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1247	I hope the President will listen to me too. If there's too many repetitions, the president's gonna have to kick me in the game. I'm going to try to bring down the temperature a little bit in this debate, and say a little bit about the background to why SV has now promoted this Document 8. Then I have to say a little about the snow that fell last year. We were not involved in this process, because we were not members of the business committee where it was going, but we were very critical of the project. I would then point to the two main reasons why we were critical of the project. One was the enormous centralizing effect such a project would have. I used to say that this is like a funnel with a magnet at the bottom. It was added to a dimension of IT fornebu that was so large that all the IT skills we had in Norway would have been sucked against Oslofjorden. Now Norway is slipping towards Oslofjord slowly, but certainly anyway, but that slide would have gone a lot, much faster. That was a very important reason – that you both offered to move skills, and that you left up so much capital in an area that has already been squeezed. Of course, it had to be taken from somewhere. Both the money and the people who were to serve such an important knowledge center had to be taken from somewhere. So this would have a huge centralizing effect. SV is a party that wants to fight for settlement in this country. We have much more faith in having a number of small centres spread across the whole country – in Oslo, but also elsewhere. The second reason why we were critical, as I would like to mention, was that some of the best areas and areas we have in Norway, which could have been used for housing – student housing and other types of housing that there is a large, large lack of housing in this part of the country. At the same time, areas for different nutritional purposes are good if you look at what's available today. It was a little bit about the snow that fell last year. So a little bit about the proposal. We are asking for a status report, and I think it is obvious that the National Assembly in Norway is involved in a matter that has had so much attention and on which so much money has been spent. It was just to be lacking that you do not care about that matter. You have to care about that matter to see how it works. Maybe it's going according to plan -- OK, then the majority is kind of right, then it's going well. Then we have to say that's excellent. But maybe it's not going very well. There may be a need for a change of course, which requires adjustments so that the damage that is about to occur can be repaired – you can change the course a little. I think it is obvious that the National Assembly in Norway, which has initiated this action, is also accompanying it and rectifying it along the way if things do not go as they should. I think we would have neglected if we hadn't. When I hear the comments from the representative Hedstrøm and the representative Fossli, it sounds like there are no problems, it sounds like there is going down at Fornebu. So they have nothing to look dark on when the status report comes. It's going well, they say. And that makes me happy. I have another information, but I hope I'm wrong. I really hope it goes well – when the Storting has first adopted this. But I fear that it is not going well, and then we have to take it inward and make the necessary decisions to correct the errors that can be corrected. I would recommend the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1268	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1271	The suction against Oslofjord was mentioned. What we have sucked at Oslofjorden can at least not be loaded into the IT centre at Fornebu, where it has so far created 550 jobs – not bad, but it does not exist in this context. As far as the status report is concerned, SIVA is given twice a year. But what the majority link up with this is that one should also view IT fornebu as a business policy tool. And you're going to do that after 23 months, when you're just getting started. I think that if you talk to independent people about this, they're going to say exactly the same thing as the Labour Party and the Advance Party: you're going to have to wait a little bit, and see when this is a little bit of a farm, we can do some assessments and possibly change something in line with what the majority wants politically. But to this proposal...
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1280	Time for line is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1283	If you find out that things are not going well, it is important to get in as early as possible and correct any errors.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1288	I thought the post to Inge Ryan was very good, unlike the undertone and insinuation that I have somehow felt that some other representatives have made in their posts. I am aware that SV is also very concerned that the government should have an involvement in business policy. Now we have over 100,000 unemployed, and SV has, together with the Labour Party and others, called for an active industrial policy. When the airport at Fornebu was laid down, it opened up a possibility to create a national centre that was internationally competitive within an area that the researchers also claimed had a high growth potential. Here were most of the parties on the Stortinget some. What one disagreed about was the extent to which the state would engage in this. Does SV not agree that the state now has a responsibility to engage in the industrial development project? Other... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1300	SV wants a very active state. We want us to have an active tool, we want the state to be an active owner, and we want the state to engage in business development. But sometimes, if we see that there are consequences that are unfortunate compared to what I said in my post – a significant centralisation, the transfer of skills and money – I have to say that maybe the state should do it another way. Perhaps the State should spread competence and capital beyond, so as to avoid strong centralisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1305	It's okay that the Socialist Left Party has always opposed the establishment of Fornebu. That is a consistent position. But it has to be a minimum of conditions that lie at the heart of an investigation. When you are in an initial start-up phase, we believe in the Progress Party that the basic things, the basis for doing it in a proper and proper way, are not available. And then you give authority to the Government to do this -- the government apparatus and the government council, which is opposed to the solution that has been chosen. Are the universities havile to do that? Had it not been better for the Storting itself to have identified who might have carried out such an investigation, or that, for example: The Research Council in the assessment of the Centres of Excellence uses foreign competent persons, so that this can have credibility and stability? Doesn't Ryan think this could be a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1314	I am aware that it has been a short time for the representative of Hedstrom. Therefore, both two and three status reports may be needed. I do not ignore the fact that SV will promote several such proposals along the way in this process, in order to follow closely. We trust that the Government will do the job objectively. Something else we don't have reason to believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1321	Ryan was busy with the centralizing act that an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu could get. I respect that. Therefore, one of the main interests of the whole centre was to get a national centre that would not only act as a vacuum cleaner in the regions, but on the contrary would be so large that it became internationally competitive and could attract foreign competence and investment, thus becoming an engine in the development of IT and knowledge in the country and thus could boost the regional environment. The regional environments would benefit from the fact that we had a national engine that was large enough to be internationally competitive. That's why it was a point that we didn't have to shave down the entire project to small areas and small bets. And many said in the debate at the time that instead of having an intimidating IT and knowledge center at Fornebu, it was better that we didn't have anything. And...
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1328	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1331	I'm starting to repeat my sails. As I said, we're critical of such a big bet in one place, just so that's said. But in conclusion – as I have 30 seconds – I hope now that you succeed at Fornebu, when a decision has been made in Stortinget. I hope that the most possible of this will succeed, once you have started and put so much money into it, there is a legitimate decision, and we hope it will go well. But we have to realize that if it's not going well, if it's about to get off the rails, we also have to take it inwards and do the necessary grips. What this is about is how we manage the money that we've invested in this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1340	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1343	This case has a long history here in Stortinget, but I am not going to use this post for so much aftertime. Nevertheless, this case shows that it is not as easy to plan and implement something that is so big and that does not have a wider connection. IT Fornebu has never taken quite so far, even if it should have doctors to facilitate this. In connection with the treatment of IT fornebu, we from the Christian People's Party were concerned with ensuring a competition for the development of the centre and, to a greater extent, selling all or part of the commercial space to interested IT companies to the highest bidder. This could be more certain that the companies that established themselves at Fornebu would also be those who believed most in the vision of an IT and knowledge centre. However, this was not the case, and we saw that there was a detailed management from Stortinget's side in this matter, which meant a strong centralisation of the decisions. This could indicate a lack of understanding of the dynamics of business in relation to how such centres arise. However, in this case I will choose to be constructive. The Christian People's Party was in doubt about this development of Fornebu as a very important area for the Oslo region, and we also warn against the sentimental effect that we saw drawing after the multiple visions. To a region where too much movement was going on, one thought it was crazy to put this dimension on this center, with a big move – something that also got membership from members of the parties that drummed through this solution. But there was no breakthrough here in Stortinget. The state has already promised to go in by 425 million. kr. Today, we are uncertain about the results. Therefore, close and good follow-up is important in order to make adjustments to achieve the best possible result. I feel that it should be particularly important for the Labour Party and the Progress Party, which were the engines to reach the solution chosen, to take time for thought and an internal debate. I'm sure that these two parties didn't want to go all the way through the developments that have taken place in society, because the government can't in the future expect to have as successful a commitment to business as he had a generation ago. We have reached a level of competence and capital in Norway, which means that the state has to take a greater position on the sidelines, be participative, stimulating instead of being heavily conductive. A situation where a greater part of personal responsibility and initiative needs to be expected will lead to the best solutions. I think it would be better if the IT and knowledge centre could establish an equivalent and voluntary cooperation between companies and research and demonstration institutions that want to establish themselves at Fornebu. All in all, in the Christian People's Party, it is positive that the Stortinget in this matter asks the Government to present a status report on the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu, with the emphasis on getting an assessment of the development of the Centre in line with Stortinget's intentions, and to analyse whether the project's concept as a food policy tool has worked as intended. It's been barely two years since it was established. Although there is little time, as the representative Hedstrom says, we all know that this is a critical phase. However, it may be right to enter and look at the situation in order to try to address the problems that exist, and to try to do this together as something better than it might have been otherwise. It's not exactly a poster clock that should be the subject here today, but rather that one should try to go in and adjust the sides that can evolve in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1362	I don't think it would surprise anyone that the Left supports the proposal for decisions from the majority of the committee to get a status report on the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. I'm not going to take the whole story in my post. It is known that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party were the drivers of this project, and in a way to which the Left and the other parties were strongly critical. And in the course of the many and far-reaching treatments the Stortinge had, the two parties were moderated significantly. And it's right that there was a broad plural that was behind the final decisions. It also had to do with the political realities. It is obvious that the interconnectedness of the IT industry made the start-up difficult for the project. And I'm going to give the Labour Party and the Advance Party justice in that it's too early to give a final verdict on it. It is also in the position of the majority, expressed in terms of others. by the proposer, SV, stating that there is not an evaluation you request, but a status report. Left gives its full support to the comments of the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, and the comments they have with the Center Party. There may be temptations today in this matter to repeat the view that the Left had in the matter of establishing an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu – the Left also had the Minister of Industry when this matter was decided – but I do not intend to do so, because we await the status report. I hope that, pending it, there is no one going into the corresponding project. For public funds to be used, the innovation and knowledge environment must be built up in real competition to submit the best plans. There must be openness in decision-making processes, with the established research and education environments as active participants. Ivar Kristiansen's posts had some history, and I don't think there was much in his posts that I don't support. In the left we see that it is important that such a controversial project is evaluated along the way, and especially when it seems to be very far from the intentions so far. Such an assessment will also have much to say in general about how the country and private investors can and should cooperate for the country’s economic development. And we'll get the knowledge that goes with it. The representative Hedstrøm asked about how to meet the corresponding project in the future, so that the state could be an active participant to create new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1380	This is a debate that shows that there have been fresh paces even earlier when we have debated this – as far as I registered from one of the speakers, it is the tenth time. I've had fun printing all these debates, because I've participated in them all, and read what's said and what's not said, and what visions you've had. In any case, it has struck me – without going into all the details – that it is not all that has gone like a thought. But I'm not going to keep a retrospective post here and now. It only struck me when I read from the debate on 11 December 1997 that the then State Secretary Per N. Hagen had a pretty fresh play that would make this debate superfluous. For he had proposed to plant forest all over Fornebu. At least then we had avoided this debate. What I just want to say, however, is really linked to the proposal for a decision in the vote on making such a status report. No one has to worry that the work of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade will be characterised by anything that may smell of rematch. I don't think anyone has blamed me for that either. Nor can I see that there was a basis for this in the 1 1⁄2 year that I have run the store. My job is to manage the ownership that the bulk of the population determines at any time, whether I'm for it or I'm against it. That means that in the status report that I'm about to start working on, I'm going to involve what you can call independent environments, of course, in addition to the center itself. I think it's pretty important that it has an ambition for such an IT perspective. At least I want to be concerned about what we can possibly do to correct the weaknesses that may have occurred, whether they were foreseen or not. I will, of course, come to Stortinget with one thing about it. I think we need to have a value creation perspective on this. What can we do? Now it's probably not as simple as someone has said, that we can adjust the rate if we find something. We own a third in a centre where two thirds are private actors. It is not that the Stortinget, although the Stortinget should get new good or bad ideas, will be able to implement them when we are in the position we are. But I would assume that the state that owns and as an IT authority will have similar interests with the private interests out there. As I said, I will not go up the history of this matter. I just want to say that I am prepared to do such an investigation. Without exaggerating, I feel that the competence of the Council of State itself is not insignificant in this particular matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1396	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1399	It was of particular interest to the last Council of State now, that if, after such a review of the status, the Government would need to take an initiative to adjust the price, there is little or no way to do so, since there are private interests with a two-thirds majority in Fornebu, which, except for sales and some other things, determine the development. But the Right-Man Ansgar Gabrielsen should be satisfied with the fact that business itself is managed out there. These are our leading job creators – not just peace. Olsen, but Wilhelmsen, Selvaag and all those who have proved their own excellence. I just want to confirm that the Government and the Council of State are standing by their promise and respect the decisions taken, and that this must be the basis for the further development of Fornebu.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1406	As I said, the state owns approx. One-third. That means there's other ones that have two thirds. That means that, in isolation, the state cannot do exactly what it wants. What I also said is that it must be assumed that the state and the private owners will have very much similar interests, so that if it should appear things that should obviously be adjusted, I would assume it also applies to the other investors. It's quite right, as Hedstrom said, that the other co-investors out there aren't exactly representatives of those who have just assumed BI. They're heavyweights in the Norwegian industry. I have great confidence in the other co-investors. That is not what this matter has in any way been about. As regards respect for the decisions that have been taken, we also have an agreement with the Progress Party on this matter, which we naturally stand by. I have no plans to promote any proposals that are in conflict with the majority of people who have decided on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1415	After the post and line-up with the representative Ivar Kristiansen, I want to state that we are very pleased with what the Council of State has said here, both about how such a status report should be and about what should be behind. I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1422	That was enough, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1427	The councils are so pleased that he's over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1430	I have a question for the Council of State regarding the possibility of adjusting the price. I am fully aware that the state has only one third of its ownership. But how does the Council of State assess the possibilities if he sees that there is a need to take significant action in order to make better use of the funds that have been invested? Is it an impossibility, or can the Council of State engage in dialogue with its people and ensure that it becomes a reality? Is there an impossibility, or is there a realistic opportunity to change the course if you see that you are tracking it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1437	Of course, if you see that you are on the wrong course, you adjust the course to the extent that you can and can influence it, etc. But it's clear that there are some constraints that are formally related to this. We can't do that one-sidedly by the state. But as I said, all logic suggests that you have a parallel interest. I guess the private investors have even more interest in it, those who have actually invested their own money out there, while SIVA uses the taxpayers' money. I would assume that those who have used their sour earned money will agree with us. The ownership is not directly managed by the Minister of Industry, but the Stortinget decided, as far as I remember from that time, across the then Minister of Industry from the Workers' Party, that SIVA should manage ownership. It can also be assessed whether it is appropriate over time for such a large investment, but the possibility of adjustments is, of course, present.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1444	Of course, the founders and industrialists who pay almost $1 billion of their own money at Fornebu don't do that for fun. They have been harassed, adopted attitudes they have not, and also ridiculed through the media, and politicians have speculated about this. They have not asked for any status review, and I need to get this clarified by the Council of State: what is the logic of getting such a status report – when the private owners do not believe it or have asked for it and the authorities do not have the opportunity to influence the majority of Fornebu, who has a long-term business economic thinking with their investments? I would like to have a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1449	That was a very strange question. I assume that, like the undersigned, Hedstrom does not have an overview of what status reports the other investors have made for their own investments. I assume that the investment departments of the companies they represent are continuously conducting such analyses and sending signals to them on the board. The difference is that this owner, the state, takes this into a full-scale storeroom. It is quite obvious that these billionaires are continuously considering all their investments to go out and in. That's why people have reported that they're going in and out. I have not been in contact with any of the private investors, so of course I have no idea what assessments they have made. I know them correctly, they have assessed this almost continuously and continuously on the possibilities of leaving if the possibility has been there to take the values. If they haven't, they've analyzed it so that they see a potential in the future, and that the values have fallen so considerably that going out would be an even greater loss.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1458	Let me first say to the Council of State that I fully share his assessment of Mr. Hedstrom's confusion in this case, as if it were private investors who decided how the State wants to manage its own portfolio and ownership. The private manages their own way, and then, of course, the Storting and the Government have to manage the investments we've made. But it is precisely this connection that Hedstrom here expresses, that shows how little he has understood of this sadness of a matter that IT Fornebu actually is. History's judgment on this is going to be merciless, but we're not going to take that today. My question to the Council of State is: if it turns out, through this status report, that through the involvement of the State, the organisation that has been carried out by IT Fornebu, one does not reach the goals set by the Stortinget – how does the Council of State see that we should proceed with this? Does that mean that he sees to it that we are going to liquidate ownership? Are we going to use the state's position to figure out something else in these premises on this attractive property? How does the Council of State view the future if it turns out that this is the sadness it actually seems to be today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1466	It's a relatively complicated question Djupedal raises, in the sense that when you're measuring whether you've achieved the goals you've set, you have to interpret the goals that the majority of the population, that I and my party were not part of, at the time. But the majority of the population had a very long time horizon, and it has been repeated in this debate that it has to be seen in a 15-year perspective. I guess as we approach the exit of it, you probably don't add a zero at least. But if you haven't achieved the targets, you probably have an explanation that in the meantime there have been some dotcom speakers that make you have to add a few years. I'm basing on what the majority of people have done in this case, and I'm basing a reasonable interpretation of what the Biggest has done, which is the Biggest's goal of setting up out there. Deviations from these objectives would be natural to report to the Stortinget on in this report, and the Stortinget itself will eventually decide whether to adjust the price.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1473	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3073]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1491	My article on this matter will be very short. An overall committee indicates that the government is working on its own broadband charging message and that it is therefore natural that Document No. 8:113 for 2001-2002 by the representatives of Arnstad and Enoxen shall be annexed to the minutes. In its few comments, the Committee has formulated a little on what we think the notification should be about. The fact that there are few comments is not the same as the fact that there are no political expectations or opinions related to the broadband message. These will be returned when the message is available. The Committee has spent some time on this Document No. The 8th proposal. We have done so because the Committee needs to address the issue of broadband in Norway, but we have also visited Sweden and heard what they have done in this area. We meet the message with hopes that broadband development will get a boost in this, not least in relation to the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1504	Quite briefly, from SV's point of view, we would like to clarify two things that it is important to come back to when you are presented to Stortinget again. One is using existing networks, of which we know there is a lot, and which are parallel. The second is that you're actually busy reaching the whole country with broadband. We know today that it's easy to build out where there's a lot of people living, very demanding where there's little people, because there's no market, so it's hard to get to commercial expansion there. We from SV expect that when you come back with a case, you have a complete case covering the whole country from Nordkapp to Lindesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1509	No less than three governments have worked with their e-plans and their plans for broadband expansion. Despite the fact that there has been such a great commitment from these governments to planning, we see that we are terribly far from achieving the objectives set in various contexts for the development of the use of electronic infrastructure, and not least the development of electronic infrastructure. The Committee, as the rapporteur also said, has spent a very long time on this matter, and has, among other things, visited Sweden, Stockholm, to study the principles of broadband development in Sweden. I think it is imperative that we now be able to think again and get away from thinking that the market is supposed to solve all the challenges we face in terms of expanding this infrastructure across the country, and not least to have a pricing of the use of these services that enable businesses and users across the country to benefit from the opportunities offered by new technology, within the same cost framework. It's a shame that we, who are a nation of great distances and with great possibilities, have not managed to prioritize this higher and have failed to get any further. We see that in the period where there are now significant numbers of kilometres of broadband, in some parts of the country there is an over-coverage, a coverage that makes economic problems for the operators operating in this market. It is simply not possible to use its infrastructure. At the same time, large parts of the country lack broadband access and lack of reasonable prices to make use of what is here. I therefore hope that it will not take very long now for this big message to be available, and, as Mr Ryan said in his speech, that this big message also has a number of concrete proposals on how to move forward, both in terms of public participation in development – not only in demanding for services but also in participating in development – to look at the use of capacity in the networks that are already being developed, and not least to look at instruments to ensure that we have a pricing system that enables all parts of the country to put this technology into use. So just in the end: we will come back to this debate wider in the next round, and I am glad that there is a unanimous committee that has agreed to have such a case presented. I just want to challenge the Council of State to say a few words about how far he has come to work on this big message, and when the Storting can expect to get it presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1525	There was a specific question about when this message came. I think I'll refer to Scripture and say that day and hour knows no one. But I assume that either immediately before or immediately after the Stortinget meets on the ‘first Saturday in October’, this big message will be available.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1530	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3074]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1543	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map. There is no voting theme in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1550	During the debate, Mr Sandberg put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that asylum seekers travelling abroad or disappear while the application is being processed are automatically refused their asylum application.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to impose travel restrictions on foreign passports and travel certificates for refugees, so that they are not applicable to travel to the foreigner’s home country or geographically neighbouring country, except on application in situations where there are concrete plans for repatriation.’;» These proposals will be replaced by the Committee's voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1596	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the possibility of transferring the State’s ownership interest in DnB NOR to the Swedish Social Security Fund, Argentum Fund investment or to a new State-controlled fund.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1638	During the debate, Mr Hedstrøm has tabled two proposals on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out an investigation covering the following points: a) Assessing the experience of knowledge centres as an instrument for creating synergies based on the interaction between research, education and business.b) Analysis of experience from knowledge centres designed from scratch through cooperation between the State and private [[Oulo, Sophia Antipolis, Montpellier]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Document No. 8:64 [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1667	First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. Alternatively, the vote will be taken between the vote and proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-04.ana.ud1647e1708	There is no record.
