ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e42	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. The first speaker is Kari Lise Holmberg, deputy to the rapporteur on the matter, who is a member of the Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e53	As the president said, it is for the case rapporteur, Peter Gitmark, that I am now delighted to present the position of the municipal committee on housing law and housing law. The new laws will replace the laws of 1960. Substantial changes are proposed in the current housing laws. The legal structure will be clearer and the regulations will be easier to deal with. The laws have also been seen in the context of developments in the housing market. The case has been widely consulted and has been largely endorsed by the Hearing Officers. Initially, I would like to emphasise that there is a great deal of consensus in this matter. An overall committee refers to the great importance that housing law has had as a executive body for social housing. An overall committee also states that housing and housing law will continue to play an important role in social housing. Per. On 1 January 2002, 136 housing units and 6,183 housing units were registered in this country. The total membership of NBBL was 652 100. These are high numbers, and it shows how many people will be affected by the changes in the laws. It is thus a law that is subject to a great deal of interest and that many expect. In this way, Svalbard can be mentioned in particular, as housing law is now to be introduced there. Only in some areas do the parties disagree. I expect individual representatives to make their own views known. I want to focus mainly on the Right's position. The housing law operates extensively, and in the Committee there has been some discussion about the type of activity that housing law can operate with, in particular in relation to saving and lending. From the right, I want to draw three main points of view: 1st@item: inlistbox For the Right, it has been important to clarify that the housing law has as its primary purpose the provision of housing to the members of the team, either by new construction or by purchase, and the management of housing for the unit-holders.2. The right considers that saving and lending should not be the main purpose of the housing law. Such an activity must be subordinate to the management of housing. Furthermore, we believe that it should be up to the members of the housing team to decide whether other activities are within the framework that members can accept.3. Right supports the continuation of the current rules that unit-holders should not have personal liability for the debts of the housing law. There are many attitudes and cultures that are challenged when people live closely together. I am therefore pleased that the legislative proposals contain a ban on discrimination. The right considers that discrimination should not occur in a modern society and therefore supports the legislative proposals prohibiting discrimination in the field of housing. One should probably not be surprised at the fact that the Progress Party chooses to stand outside a joint comitology that underlines the importance of the legislative provisions on the prohibition of discrimination. Although the Advance Party covers itself behind its own committee comments in this field, I am still somewhat negatively surprised. But I expect that the Progress Party itself will clarify its views. In the Committee, the discussion has largely concerned the Ministry's proposal for a legal register. Per. at present there is no such thing. But the consensus has not been reached here. The Ministry's proposals have not been endorsed, nor has the model that the Right and Christian People's Party supported. I think that's regrettable, because our model would be the best. Indeed, the right considers that the operation of such a register should be suspended from competition and that this should be done under public acquisition law. In our opinion, this will ensure the social optimum operation of the register and the lowest possible cost to users. For the Right, it has been important for the State to be the owner of the information in the Register – this in order to ensure that any bankruptcy of the organisation responsible for the operation shall not have a negative impact on unit-holders, mortgage holders and other rightholders in housing units. It is also necessary to ensure that the data can be transmitted immediately to the person who is to take over the entry. I would like to make the following comments on the majority's proposal: the right is sceptical to the majority's view that the register system should be based on competition, because in this case we are uncertain whether the market mechanism will ensure just free competition. Among other things, there must be more and more equivalent actors in the market. The danger is therefore great that this will be a monopoly, where for example. Norway's Building Team wins. No matter who wins, we have bad experience with monopoly. Tenders impose much higher standards of quality and price than would be the case in a monopoly market. In the case of tenders, we can also set maximum prices and minimum quality requirements. Finally, I should like to address the proposals on which the Right is the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e98	First, I would like to address the proposals that the Workers' Party has made. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to have new, timely laws that maintain and continue the role of housing construction teams as very important social housing actors in this country. The Labour Party is pleased that we have received a majority for many important changes to the Government's bill. This applies primarily to the legal register, because it is funny enough that everyone is against the Government's proposal here. Although the parties to the government have made a completely new proposal in the committee, this majority does not. In the case of the legal register, the Workers' Party believes that the Government's desire to change a scheme that has worked well for decades without loss or problems for the owners of housing camps is a little too stupid. It is also funny that the Right-State Council of Solberg is so afraid to go in so that the register function will still be carried out by private individuals. Housing cooperation already has competence and computer systems to operate such a register. A state monopoly, as proposed by the Government, means the transfer of jobs from the private sector to the state. The Labour Party is in favour of establishing an official authorisation system and ensuring competition – which in turn will ensure competitive prices for consumers – but that the register can continue to be operated by private individuals. In many housing communities, these annual works are part of jobs, and by continuing with this, for which there is a majority today, we will secure jobs in the whole country. A majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the SV and the Centre agree that the Housing Building Laws can operate with saving and lending, and that the new Housing Law is not intended to restrict the tasks of the Housing Building Laws in relation to those they have today. The same majority believe that the housing law should be treated as equivalent to other financial institutions in terms of saving and lending rights. That's the government against it. But by doing that, we're saying there's no change at this point. As regards the distribution and disposal of profits, the majority of the Committee disagrees with the Government that interest is payable on share capital and bonuses of up to one tenth of the annual surplus. The majority of the committee suggests that the team cannot provide interest on the share capital or distribute funds to the unit-holders. Interest and payment schemes are quite foreign in residential construction cooperation today, and these will be very modest payments in relation to the additional work it will entail. We believe that funds can be allocated in a much better way in relation to the living environment or to non-profit purposes in the activities of the team. We also believe that the limit should be set to 20 pst. Not 10 pst. In the case of representation of unit-holders, an overall committee agrees that we should oppose the Government's proposal for a new §2-14, that future unit-holders should have representation in the Board of Construction, because this will hardly lead to increased influence but to increased costs. The working party believes that there should be other ways of involving future unit-holders that will cover this area. So to the ten pst. rule. This is where the Labour Party promotes its own proposal. The majority decided on 17 June 2002 to extend the range of those who could acquire up to 10 pst. of the dwellings of housing companies and of the holding companies. We also refer to a circular sent out of the department, where it says that by an incursion under the law change, the last sentence of the ownership law fell out, and that you should come back to it. But it does not seem that we are getting it fixed today either. It is impossible to understand that SV now participates and ensures a majority that we are discriminated against in relation to the fees of ownership transfer, ex ante clearances and in some other areas where housing laws will have a special arrangement in relation to other types of housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e117	The Progress Party has largely endorsed the proposals that the Government is promoting for new housing law and new housing law. The Progress Party only has its own comments on a few points, and in some areas we will vote against some of the paragraphs of the law. As a legislative assembly, we have an important task, to facilitate the best possible functioning of the Norwegian housing market. I hope and believe that these new laws we are now dealing with will make a positive contribution to ensuring satisfactory development in the Norwegian housing market in the future. A well-functioning Norwegian housing market with a proper balance between supply and demand is an important prerequisite, not least in terms of the ability of individual residents to buy their own housing. In this respect, housing cooperation has also played an important role historically. Co-operative housing today accounts for an important proportion of the total provision of housing in Norway, after just 50 years of work. The Norwegian Landsförbunds now consists of 102 housing units and around 44 000 housing units, which then disposes of approx. 240,000 apartments, which in turn house about 500,000–600,000 people — and in addition there are some independent housing units around the country. The housing law is the largest residential building in Norway and thus contributes to the widest possible ownership of their own housing, which is an important objective of housing policy in Norway. Of Norway's about two million residential properties are about 13 pst. housing for housing for housing for housing for housing A right of residence is a separate company owned by those who live there, and will sell by an owner, he can freely sell at the usual market price. In my view, this is an important prerequisite for the housing cooperative model. In my view, the broad agreement on housing policy, with the aim of getting the most ownership of their own housing, has created a well-functioning Norwegian housing market, in which the majority of us own their own home today. The Progress Party has, as has been said, seen no major practical, political or fundamental reasons to disagree significantly with the content of the two legislative proposals of the Government, but in one area we have contributed to the majority, which amends the Government's proposal. The progress of the party is linked with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV to a new arrangement whereby the ownership of the housing law is to be recorded in the base book, as proposed in the proposal itself. On the other hand, the party to the proceedings, together with the same parties, considers that the registration of rights in housing law apartments should be based on competition between several holding registers. We believe that this is also a better model than the model proposed by the government parties in the Committee, which is based on a single central register of unit registration, although this should therefore be the subject of tender and thus be the subject of a certain competition. The current registration system for unit-holders has worked reasonably well, as I have been informed so far. I can therefore see no very good reasons to change significantly on a well-integrated and well-functioning system. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that we can continue a model for registration under the law of residence and business owners, which ensures an appropriate competitive situation with regard to the selection of unit registers and which is also in other ways positive for the activities of resident law. From the Progress Party, as I have said before, we have no pressing need to say too many words about these legislative proposals, as we largely agree with most of the content of the proposition. I would also like to refer to the proposition and the setting as well as to the respective individual comments that have been included in the setting by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e151	So I've grown up in housing law. I remember living in Kvernevikstimma in Åsane, Bergen. I remember living in Øyjord Road 75 X, which had got the X for a completely incomprehensible reason, because A-W did not exist. And I remember living in Paysenet 17. And then we used to rent all the time. I remember the first time we bought our own residency apartment in the Skytternwegen. I remember the second time we bought, in Selegrend's housing law, and then we bought too much because of the right-hand release of the housing prices in the 1980s, which led to the book "The flow from the chemist, or the very longing in my body," written by my father. I remember the virtues, I remember the croquet in the lawn, I remember the chickens and the goats – which I think we were all alone about having in our homestead team – as a bit in the lawn, and I remember the 70-year-old neighbor, with whom I always beat off a chat because her husband was dead – she fortunately had the other people who lived there. But I also remember the hairdressing director of the barn that threatened me on the open street, in the hearing of witnesses, with eviction, because I had let the sink hang out on a Sunday. In spite of this, I would say that I love the housing laws. I've always been safe. We live closely, and yet we live separately. I've never felt afraid in a brigade, because there's always someone knocking on the floor of, or on the door of, if something should happen, it's the water pipe running, or anything. This is hard to understand for those who have lived their whole life in a house. Among other things, I have a friend of the Jären, and his parents shook their heads when they heard that the son had bought himself an apartment in the city. You're going to live like an ant now? they said to him. But they were then and looked at the apartment, and thought it was elder. Housing law is social democracy in practice. People live together, take responsibility for each other, and make sure to live safely and well together. Maybe that's why housing laws have looked a little dangerous to the Right people, who have worked to make it as much like ownership sections as possible. But I'm not going to blackpaint this law, because basically we agree. The rental right is converted into a right of residence. We're going to make a central record of who lives where, even if we disagree a little bit about the way we do it. We are making a ban on discrimination, and in line with the time, we are lifting the strong link between related housing law and the housing law. But what's important to remember is the social responsibility that the housing laws have always taken. In times of decline, the housing law together with the House Bank has ensured that the housing building is kept at a certain level. At the time when the municipalities are increasing their prices of rental dwellings, the housing housing law is building several non-commercial dwellings – both for young people and for old people – although at present there is not so much money in the House Bank for that matter. But the community that lies here is incredibly important. That is why I think that you go too far when you open the door to renting out your flats for up to three years, and now you want – against the votes of both SVs and others – to allow for the payment of dividends in the housing housing law. But at the same time we have an important thing: there is a consensus that what the housing law is doing today, they should be able to continue doing even in the time to come. When housing construction laws provide for a good system that ensures low electricity prices – it negotiates on behalf of all its residents – when the housing housing laws provide good loans to their members, so that they can obtain an apartment – give them the opportunity – and when you jointly enter to pay a little extra rent because the housing housing laws ensure that the old people living there might get a security alarm, maybe get some extra offers, it shows the potential of solidarity that arises between people living together and who feel a community. And on the day that the Government acknowledges that we should encourage people – both with money and in other ways – to as much as possible to make sure to live together and to solve each other's challenges together, I think we can manage to achieve a solidarity society and solve the shortage of housing for very many young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e168	Would the representative like to make a proposal where SV is a co-sponsor?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e171	That was an incredibly good tip, President. Of course, I am addressing the proposal that SV has promoted together with the Senterpartiet.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e178	The representative Heikki Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e181	Both housing and barges have been important for the Nordics to be able to buy their own housing. That's how it'll still be, after the changes in the law that we're making now. Even though I grew up in a house in the country, we offered close. Grandma offered on one side of the loft, and the aunt family offered on the other – so it was a small barricade, too. And even though I grew up like that, I bought my first dwelling in a barricade. I had to sell him to my sister because I wasn't allowed to rent him out while we ourselves – my family – were in the military at the Sessvollmoen. I believe that the most important thing about this law is that the code becomes simpler, and that the individual gets more ownership of his dwelling – as I didn't even have a long time ago. For example, the right to rent is extended. As I and the Christian People's Party see it, a little bit more flexibility is needed. There's actually a big deal about the main lines of this case, even if there's some The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party will not allow interest to be paid out on the share capital. The Christian People's Party believes that interest on capital is such a built-in principle that it is unthinkable that this cannot be possible also for barricades. With the restrictions that the government has put in, we're quite happy that this gets multiples in the hall. This is also true in the case of the ceiling on the handling fee. At some different angle, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and – this time – the Progress Party say no to it. However, the government gets multiple numbers together with SV so that the amount of such fees is allocated to the legal fee. And that's what we're naked about. The government thinks that a copyright register should be public, and will create a separate registry. The parties of the Right and the Christian People's Party would suspend the operation of such a register, but so that the ownership of the contents of the register would be at the hands of the State. The majority will – oddly enough – only have an authorisation system, which we believe can easily lead to NBBL, the Norwegian National Association of Housing Buildings, to a monopolistic situation. NBBL is unquestionably good at operating such a register. Although the Christian People's Party believes that the proposal of the plural is untimely, we do not see the loss as a disaster, not least because everyone has agreed that this type of register should be secured through a better formalized legislation. But we think the customer will lose on the plural decision. The dwelling is important for the family to grow and thrive. The home is the place where children grow up and where heat and care are to be given. A good housing policy is essential to a good family policy. The Christian People's Party believes that this legislative change is a progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e199	Today, when the Storting takes a position on new law on citizens' rights, the changes are due to a large number of individuals in this country. So this isn't exactly the most readable document for most people. I understand for individual representatives who here were tempted by a ‘thinking you’ style – almost – as to describe the experience of buing as one’s own. I think I will stick to the matter, even if I also want to say that it was interesting and fun to listen to Heikki Holmås when he described his experience in this field. In any case, they would like to stress that it is important for the Storting to ensure a law that allows such growth conditions to continue as well. NBBL had one per cent. On 1 January 2002 652 000 members, and the Ministry believes that there are probably 250 000 housing sites. The value for use is eight times the number of new buildings. Then it is important to keep a law that, in a good way, also in the future, provides a clean framework for housing cooperation. It's actually decisive for the social housing construction of our country. The Ministry has followed up the Bürettslaw selection process and has proposed a law that has supported both the hearing bodies and the committee on important issues. I'm going to focus on some points where there's a discrepancy. The first relates to the Burette Register. The central party is surprised at the government's commitment to a state-owned barricade registry. Building blocks now keep a list of their associated building blocks. It is a system that has worked well, that has resulted in revenue for law, and that, according to the view of the Centre Party, should continue. We wonder why the Government, which usually continues its work on simplification and privatisation, is going the opposite way. We are very pleased that a majority reject the Government's proposal. The majority now provide more registers and competition for the leadership. We believe building laws, with the experience and competence they have, should have good reason to believe that in the future, too, it will be those who are going to do this work. We are surprised at the government's commitment to a cap on fees, i.e. the costs that individual members impose on the stockpiles, and that even will suggest a ban on a fee when it relates to the transfer of the warrant. The majority of the committee disagrees with the Government here, and for good reason. The centre party and SV agree that the right to leave one dwelling to others shall be limited to two years. For us, it's important to keep for short periods of time. This will increase the ability of others to live in a dwelling. So finally about the 10 pst. rule, as it is now designed in § 4-2. It is important for municipalities and ideal foundations that they have the possibility to benefit from the 10 pst rule in different types of cages. There is a rule of chance, which assumes that there is close cooperation between the barricades and the individual municipality. It's very important that the municipalities are conscious of their task of following up the hard-working people they get housing for. But we're wondering why the Labour Party finds it necessary to make an own proposal in the hall. For the Central Party, it is to make sure that a piece of legislation that makes a municipality feel it necessary to get a living, also has the possibility – sometimes – to get a living in a part of a quadruple. That's the law that's now being passed, will make sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e225	I am glad that today we have adopted a new law on housing law and a new law on housing law. I am also pleased that we have regulated discrimination provisions throughout the housing market through the different laws governing different types of housing. The main point of the new laws is to ensure that current legislation is updated in relation to new challenges — greater mobility, other ways of living — and in relation to developments that have actually taken place in view of how housing law and housing laws have worked since the law was established in 1960. I am pleased that the majority of the proposals in the proposal are adopted as proposed by the Government. Nevertheless, some points may sometimes be amazemented at the position of different political parties. I'll come back to some of them. I think it is important to stress that the housing model is a good model, not least in relation to the need we have to provide housing in cities, work in relation to issues of environmental congestion and in relation to ensuring that we have an efficient housing structure. But I'm a little surprised that the municipal committee presents it as if the housing cooperatives have special housing social tasks, despite the fact that the housing construction laws themselves have underlined both in hearings and elsewhere that they don't have it and don't want to have it. In fact, these legislative proposals do not provide any guarantees or leads to social housing. If you look at some of the housing projects that housing law and housing laws have built in recent years, for example: OBOS’ newly built Marienlyst Park and Sealyststranda here in Oslo, with a square metre price above NOK 60000 for the most attractive dwellings – perhaps it is examples that the purpose of the housing cooperation is to take care of the interests of the members in the various phases of life, not primarily to have the objective of being part of social housing or to have housing-social tasks. Now this has not been reflected in any changes in the law or elsewhere, but I note that the ambitions of the municipal committee in relation to this law are somewhat different from those of the housing law itself, for which they are to have tasks. As I said, I am pleased that the majority of this bill is given to us, in particular that we now have a majority in the rules on discrimination. There is discrimination in the housing market. There is a need for us to also be able to get organs that can enforce this law. We will come back to the Stortinget when we go through the follow-up on broader ethnic discrimination protection, the Holgersen Committee, hopefully not too long. I am a little surprised that you do not see that it is a point to regulate the fees. The representatives of the housing cooperative in the Borettslovkommission considered that fees in the amount of NOK 2 500 were sufficient to check if anyone would use the pre-purchase right. There are currently several housing laws operating at fees of between NOK 8 000 and NOK 10 000, which therefore indirectly cover more than the cost of these fees. It has been one of the reasons why we thought this should be regulated. When the majority wants freedom of contract in this area, it means that it becomes somewhat less consumer-friendly, in particular to the individuals who are to buy and sell shares in the housing laws and that there is an increased cost for this group. I also note that a long struggle for the right to choose a businessman now receives broad support from parties that have previously voted against the Right's proposal in this Chamber to just give that freedom. Then we can put down an old dispute case that has been up to discussion in the past. I understand that it may be fun to look at the question that the Government has proposed that we have a public solution in terms of registering shares in the housing laws. What the government has done is to follow the principle of a broad majority in the Storting, not least expressed by Anne Helen Rui of the Workers' Party, who was the case rapporteur when last year the establishment of the directory of cases was dealt with, among other things. said that the object intelligence activity includes large values and that legal protection is ensured both in terms of turnover and other legal dispositions of immovable property. And so does this. What was underlined by the Workers' Party at that time was that ‘we in the Workers' Party believe that this is also a public, state task’. Clearly, it can be solved in many other areas. But I think it's a little strange that when you put so much emphasis on having shared availability and public responsibility when you regulate this, you choose a model that doesn't even guarantee a competitive outsourcing where you have control of the treatment, but only an authorisation system. I do not think that is a good solution, but we are discussing principles for how to solve public tasks in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e248	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e251	The council says she's happy that we're now going to adopt the law. That's probably right. But I don't think the Council of State is particularly satisfied, because in a lot of areas, the Government suffers defeat. The Labour Party is very satisfied, because with the exception of a few proposals, we have actually received a majority for all of our proposals. One of these proposals for which we do not get a majority is the tightening of the ten pst. rule. I also showed in my post that the Council of State has sent out a circular saying that by «an incuria under the law change falls the last sentence of Section 22 of the Owners' Section Act. The point will be re-entered at first conditions. The Ministry encourages everyone to apply the rule when using the fourth paragraph. We have now put forward a proposal on this, but now the government parties will not support it. Does the Council of State mean that this should not be corrected now?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e258	The Council of State is going to make sure that we follow up, and that we are going to put in the right wording in relation to the decision. Nevertheless, we believe that we should promote it in the context of a legislative proposal from the Government, when we have gone through just how this wording should be. I have to say that the most important thing in relation to this 10 pst. rule is that it can actually work, that the municipalities have the opportunity to purchase shares in housing companies, in owner's sections and in other parts of the housing market, which means that you can actually get a functioning housing policy for those groups in the housing market who are exposed and who need help from the municipality to get into the housing market. Then we're going to go through and look at the formulation of how the practice is, and we're going to come back with a bill with the right updates of it, so that we get a practice that is in line with what we want. The practice is based on what we had to do last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e265	I find it illustrative that the Council of State does not take the point that I have in relation to this with the role of housing law as an active force in social housing policy. Because it is quite right, as the Council of State says, that they do not have an important role as a housing policy player, but they take an important social responsibility. They want, for example: operating a rental activity towards young people and others, which is also important for society. They want to run low-deposit housing aimed at communities that have difficulty establishing themselves. But they don't get that role from the Minister of Housing, because she and the rest of the Government don't think it's an important thing to prioritize. I think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e270	My emphasis on the fact that these legislative changes do not have a particular purpose in relation to housing-social issues is an emphasis on what the NBBL itself has said in its hearing. They have been concerned with stressing that the cooperative housing does not have public housing social obligations and that any contribution from the cooperative housing in this area should be made under normal commercial conditions, weighing the benefits and benefits against each other. They do not define themselves as having such a special role in housing. So you could say that they can have it, but there may also be a lot of others if it's going to happen on business terms, where benefits and counterparts are balanced against each other. This is, therefore, the opinion of the Housing Association itself, which underlines that they do not actually want an exaggeration. Their aim is to do something for those who enter different stages of life and for those who are members and who choose to organise their housing needs through the housing law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e277	I think it is important to clarify whether the Council of State believes housing law has an important role to play in social housing. For more than 50 years, the Burechtslag model has proved to be a good solution for getting people good housing. It shows the large number of dwellings they represent. Building blocks have a large number of members, they still have access to new ones, and it documents that the burettes have good audiences. I found it very interesting that several housing laws themselves are calling for the involvement of new groups in the case of young people, in the case of low-injection housing, and for a decision to be taken in the various housing laws to allow municipalities to buy in. I think it's very alarming if we have a government council here trying to explain the important task that many barricades are taking on today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e286	I believe that housing and housing cooperatives can have many important tasks in the residential and residential areas, not least as an organisational form that makes it easier to create more housing. In this way, the form of housing law and housing law is an important part of our entire housing market, and it has contributed to almost 80 pst. of the housing market in Norway today is owned. It has made ownership easier for many groups that could not easily have bought into a number of other types of projects. However, I note that the municipal committee has assigned these laws and housing laws a different purpose than the housing law itself has underlined in its consultation opinion. In the social housing sector, they believe that this should be based on purely commercial principles, that they should have no specific responsibility. So they've been like other actors in the housing social area. But that the function and organisational forms are important for housing, I'm not in doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e293	Here I just mean that the Council of State emphasizes the skyscrapers it seems as if she has. So there is an enormous potential to use the power that exists in the housing complexes for housing social purposes, e.g.. what the State Council has now removed from the grant funds of the House Bank – this is in the process of operating non-commercial rental activities. It is quite obvious that the housing laws will be some of the very few who will want to go in, along with other non-commercial organisations, she said, on non-commercial terms. It won't, for example. private builders are on board. I mean, if you don't see it, you've been bombing. I would like to say one thing that underlines what we have done on the Committee's part. We have stated that the housing law should not only be confined to what is for the main purpose, but we have also underlined the importance that they should be able to operate to a large extent with things that support the main purpose. And I think that's an intensification of what was in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e301	If the state council has sky posters, then it's the housing cooperative's sky poster she's got. It's important to underline. I also think it is important to stress that, as a politician, you might well think that you have a dream that housing teams and housing laws should have functions other than what they themselves define as. But then it has to be the members that define it, and then it will be defined at different times. The romanticisation, that housing construction layers or housing law are more social than the fact that an entrepreneur builds at low cost, I think is wrong – especially when I see what high-cost projects are built, not least because the membership stock in the housing housing law is gradually changing. You get more in the generation 60-70 years that want other types of housing solutions, which have a pretty good economy. This makes it possible to build Marienlyst Park and Sjølyststranda in Oslo or Georgnes Verft in Bergen, which is relatively expensive, most high-cost – they cannot define for any organisation a purpose other than their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e310	This replication has been useful in the sense that we have been told that building laws are of course intended to take care of our own members, and that the individual type of housing management takes on tasks that it is important in today's society to resolve in a community between the individual municipality and the different actors in the housing sector. I agree with what the Council says, that building layers are one of several actors. I have a direct question that goes on this with the possibility for others to take over a dwelling for a period, and the limit that has now been proposed for three years. Would not two years be more preeminent than others having been able to live in one dwelling?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e317	Once the government has chosen to go from two years to three years, it is simply due to an emphasis on the significantly greater degree of mobility that exists in our population, where people work elsewhere over time. We're more globalized, more internationalized. But we also have a larger shift between different parts of the country, and that means that in given situations the need to rent out their home without having to sell it is larger. We have therefore seen that there has been a problem for individual members around when the two-year limit has been practised hard. We thought it was then natural to go further, including. Because we have a completely different social structure than the one we had in 1960. Therefore, this is a practical relief for individuals who come into life situations where they may not be able to live for a period of time at the place they have lived, and therefore need to rent out their home. One could pragmatically set the limit elsewhere, but we also know that the two-year rule for a number of individuals has been a problem that has forced sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e322	The cord shift is over. We'll move on to the list of speakers. Those who are given the word now have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e327	Short only: in proposal No. 6 should be corrected. the words ‘the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 4-2 shall be replaced by the following:’ shall not be inserted after the first sentence. So a few words to the Council of State, which says she's amazed at the parties' position in relation to the legal register: there's probably no reason to hide that there's anyone who's amazed at the state council's position in relation to the legal register as well. Here you have to go in yourself first, before you start criticizing others. Governments say that competition is not guaranteed. That's not right. Such a register is now to function, it is fully competitive. What the Workers' Party has been concerned about is that we should provide unit-holders with the cheapest and best possible service. And with what the government offered, a state monopoly, we're not sure that we had got that prize.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e339	Astonishment is not necessarily the same as criticism. It is possible that the Workers' Party is amazed that we are concerned with cleanliness in relation to both the outsourcing of competition and what are public and what are private tasks in the way we organize them. But that's actually completely in line with the fact that we're going to have a real competitive environment. We're going to have proper, tidy relationships around the way we organize things – and we're not going to, just because it's been historically like this, regulates the individual's ownership of a dwelling through housing laws. That there has been a register of NBBL, does not mean that they have a property right to always do so. At the moment that the state enters and regulates a business, we also need to think about how the regulation of that business actually works. We did this on the part of the Government based on the fact that when we regulate something, it is in the same way that the representative Anne Helen Rui of the Workers' Party said about general disclosure of things: it is important that the authorities have a special responsibility for this being correct, that it is therefore up to the public – as the Workers' Party thought about all other types of rights on the property market – and that it is a state task to have responsibility for this. The regulation of this does not mean that we can privatize the leadership of it. To quote the representative Anne Helen Rui: ‘It is the State that is liable on an objective basis if errors are made by the disclosure of facts’ in these cases, and it is the State that should have control over how it develops. That is why I think that the model proposed by the Christian People's Party and the Right in Stortinget promotes the Government's intention – namely that we should discharge this as a clear state responsibility, but that we could postpone the operation in order to reduce costs and ensure that those who could run it were able to run the cheapest. It is a model that I think serves the purpose of the Government in a good way. Then I register that this is an area where you don't think it's so important to have a coordinated information site, but an area where you think you should stick to the old tradition of NBBL and perhaps establish a private monopoly. To put it that way: this is going to amuse me in a whole municipal election fight, where we are then accused of being unbidden in the competition. This, I think, is an unfair way to have a state regulatory order chosen, instead of making it tidy by saying that the state is responsible for the entire dimensioning of how this should be done – possibly putting it out for competition, as the minority in the Committee believes. I think it has many parallels to the entire debate we have on quality requirements and on what should be compared to other types of outsourcing. But here, those who are usually opposed to it – because they happen to like the organisation, and because the organisation has a tradition of doing so – have chosen a privatized solution. The principles of this debate are breaking slightly.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e350	I felt the need to take the word at the end – this will probably be the last post – to say something to what the Council of State says about this. State councils are afraid of NBBL as a monopolist, in relation to this by registering. I don't think the Council of State should be afraid of that. In addition – if there is reason to be afraid of it, it will solve itself in the market, if it is such that NBBL prices are completely out. The reasons for this are several different. One is this: it is obvious that if NBBL takes these things for its members, it would be a member requirement to do something about the way NBBL does it, if it is so that they give themselves all the praise and offer a terrible quality. In addition, the Council of State and the Government, through the requirements set out in the authorisation system, have the opportunity to ensure that this keeps up with the development and quality that we would also have had if we had a basic boxing, which was the option of the Council of State. I have to say that I think the alternative with which the government fraction came up during the treatment was bad. Tenders outsourced over a five-year period are not a good solution compared to, for example: to do what the Government first proposed, namely to put this in the base book. Putting this in the basebook is a good argument to do. You put it all in one place, and then you get a central system that applies to everyone. When SV has chosen not to go in for this, there are three reasons why. One is that we think it's going to be cheaper. I don't think there's any doubt that it's going to be cheaper to do it the way that the majority is now adding up to. A property registration costs after all it costs, there is a high fee there. So this is going to be cheaper. The second is that you get a high degree of availability, because this is going to be done by those who initially will do this work if NBBL establishes a register, as they say they're going to do. In addition, the same access to information will be granted to regulators, for example: if the Government ensures that it does what the Committee has recommended, namely to place all of this on a website. Then this will be as easily accessible as anything else. Then I can't see why this should be so terrible. I think the government council, the government parties and the majority of the government can agree that the important and good thing we have been able to do in this process is what the law commission asked us to do, namely to collect the registration in one place. We get that, and then we can argue a little bit about the other things. But it's of secondary importance, because now you get a cleanness. You get a quality development on registration that's in line with social development, and then I think we'll be happy with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e365	I am pleased to hear the pricing of the market – I will remember it for other debates – that the market will solve this by giving us lower costs. It makes the market in very many contexts if there are no significant initial investment costs by establishing a system. In this context, it may actually be in order to have alternatives to keep the level of costs down. That's one of the reasons why a clean market solution, where you have multiple providers, doesn't necessarily provide a good enough control of how the costs associated with this are going to be for individual members. Now I want to stress that I don't think this is the greatest point in relation to that piece. But it's interesting to note that all the fundamental objections to putting out competition, to allowing private participation in some areas, fall away when you like the organisation. The fact that the public should sit and regulate this in detail instead of managing a code that is common under the facts, which already has solutions to it, is not a problem. This does mean, however, that one might have to be a little more pragmatic in other debates on the outsourcing of tasks, because there may be many other parallel situations where the market can actually be easier than in this area to lower costs, because it is not the same initial cost of entering the market as it is going to be if one is to set up a complete register and operate it without being guaranteed in advance to customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e372	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 532]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e380	The odelsting shall then vote in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e387	Seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Lise Holmberg on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Kari Lise Holmberg on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 3 and 4, by Kari Lise Holmberg on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, by Heikki Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposal No. 6 and 7, from Signe Eye on behalf of the Workers' Party Proposal No. 1-5 is included in the option, while proposal No. 6 and 7 are distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e460	This is where the Progress Party will notify you that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e626	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Sections 3 to 5 of the Housing Construction Act shall be replaced by the following: Any interest on share capital shall be limited. [[1]] [[2]] The distribution to unit-holders, if any, from trading with the layer cannot represent more than one tenth of the annual profit or loss from the year before the distribution after covering a deficit from previous years. More than the board suggests or accepts. [[3]] For community and other non-profit purposes, the General Assembly may decide to set aside up to one tenth of the annual profit after covering deficits from previous years. There is no suggestion or acceptance from the board to set up anything more than the board. [[4]] In trade with unit-holders, barges or others, conditions shall not be agreed upon that would otherwise affect other unit-holders or the team. [[5]] Distribution contrary to paragraph here the receiver is to return to the layer. This does not apply, however, if the recipient is known or should know that the distribution was illegal. The claim for restitution may be set down by Section 5-2 of the Claims Compensation Act.» An alternative will be found between the recommendation of the Committee and this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e654	I'm asking for a new vote. I think someone in our group voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e661	Then there will be a new vote over § 3-5.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e1867	The party of progress has notified that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e1940	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 4, from Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Sections 2 to 3 of the Law of Law of Law shall be replaced by the following:§ 2 to 3 Minimum requirements for the Foundation document or the Foundation document shall otherwise indicate the name or business name, address and birth or organisational number of the founders, the time of payment of the units and who shall be the first board of directors and the first auditor of the team.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e2135	The new last sentence of the first subparagraph is preceded by an aberrant proposal, No. 6, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The law on barges is amended as follows: the new last sentence of the first paragraph of Section 4-2 shall be replaced by the following:If the law on housing has several buildings, the right to own such units shall apply only – and shall be calculated from – those shares that give right of residence in buildings with five or more residences. ‘... The progress bar has been warned that they are going against the option of the first paragraph. The proposal from the Workers' Party will first be contested, so over the setting to Section 4-2, first paragraph. And then the second and third terms add up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e2196	The President will vote on proposal No. 2, from Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party, to § 4–6, with subsequent paragraph shifts and paragraph references. The proposal reads as follows: «In the law on residence law, the following provisions shall be replaced by the following:§ 4-6 Fee, etc. For work on change of ownership and any approval, the team may charge a fee of up to four times the legal fee of the transferor.§§ 4-6 to 4-20 shall become §§ 4-7 to 4-21.In these paragraphs, the reference to § 4-7 shall be amended to § 4 8:§ 2-10, second paragraph, last sentence, § 2-11, second paragraph, second sentence, § 4 5 second paragraph, § 4 9 second paragraph, § 5 21 third paragraph, § 5 22 second paragraph. In the third paragraph of § 4-8, the reference to § 4 6 shall be amended to § 4 7.I § 4-11, the reference to § 4 § 4 11 to 4 20 shall be amended to § 4 12 to 4 21.I § 4-20, first and second paragraphs, the references to § 4 14 and 4 14, second paragraph, shall be amended to § 4 15 and 4 15, second paragraph.In the third paragraph of Section 14-7, the references to § 4 10 to 4 20 shall be amended to § 4 11 to 4 21. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e2367	§ 4-6 to 4-20 has now become §§ 4-7 to 4-21.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e2377	The President will then vote on proposal No. 2, from Right, Socialist Left Party and Christian People's Party, to § 4-22. The proposal reads as follows: « The paperwork may charge a fee of up to five times the legal fee in order to receive a pre-announcement as referred to in the second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 4-15. [[1]] If the right of pre-emption is exercised, the remuneration shall be refunded. [[2]] The bill of lading may, as a condition to exercise the right of pre-emption, require the prior purchaser to pay a fee of up to five times the legal fee. [[3]] The features of this paragraph cannot be waived.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e2445	The first sentence is preceded by an aberrant proposal, No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first sentence of Section 5-5 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e2502	There is now a vote on proposal No. 3, from Right and Christian People's Party, to Section 5-7, second paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 5-7 of the Law of Law of Law of Law shall be replaced by the following: The team may not claim remuneration for work with the approval of the user.’ [[2]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e2734	For the second paragraph of Section 6-1 there is an aberrant proposal, no. 4, from Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second paragraph of Section 6-1 of the Law of Law of Law of Law is replaced by the following:§ 6-1 The Register of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of the Law of Law of the Law of Law of Law of the Law of Law of Law of the Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of the Law of Law of Law of the Law of Law of Law of Law of the Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of the Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of Law of Law of the Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of the Law of Law of Law of the Law of Law of Law of Law of the Law of Law of Law of the Law of Law of Law of Law of the Law of the Law of Law of Law of the Law of the Law of Law of Law of Law of the Law of Law of Law of the Law of Law of the Law of Law of Law of the Law of Law of the Law of Law of Law of Law of Law of the Law of the Law of Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law, of the Law of the Law of the Law, of the [[2]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e3651	Here the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they are going to the fifth term, and one vote first above this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e3975	Paragraph 22, fourth paragraph, new second sentence, introduces a proposal, No. 7, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Act 23 May 1007 No 31 shall be amended as follows: the second sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 22 shall be replaced by the following:Where a joint ownership consists of several separate buildings, the access to acquire together shall be limited to 10 per cent or at least one section to those buildings which have five or more sections.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e4101	It's going to go above the heading of the laws and laws at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-05-22-lower.ana.ud1997e4111	Law decisions will be sent to Creation.
