ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e31	The representative, Øystein Hedstrom, will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e34	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal for amendments to the Competition Act that would prevent Norwegian companies from building up in the Nordic and European markets when there is a functioning market. President: The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e52	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e61	All workers, with the exception of waiters, currently have a legal right to smoke-free work. At the same time, the service providers are the professional group with the highest incidence of all cancers combined, lung cancer and cancer of the urinary bladder. Health damage from passive smoking is well documented. Among other things, it is supported by the World Health Organisation of the International Agency for Research on Cancer expert group, which has established that passive smoking increases the risk of lung cancer by between 20 and 30 pst. The risk of dying from cardiovascular disease is increased by about 30 pst. In this country it is estimated that 300-500 non-smokers die every year from heart attacks caused by passive smoking. There are also effects of more short-term influence. Many people feel uncomfortable when they are exposed to passive smoking. Symptoms may include eye irritation, sores or dry throat, coughing, tightness of the chest or tightness of the tongue. The symptoms are greatest among people with so-called hyperactive respiratory tracts, which affect about a quarter of the population. In a short period of time, passive smoking may lead to an increased likelihood of blood clots, a slight onset of cardiac spasms in the heart, and as early as 30 minutes after exposure, the functions of the inner cell layers of the blood vessels of the heart will be affected to the same extent as those of a smoker. This is in itself discomfort and dangers that most of us will not accept to be exposed to in our own workplace. The Minister of Health therefore deserves praise for having dared to raise this issue and ask us as the top legislative body: Will you ignore these facts? By means of the bill, he has answered a clear no. And as the rapporteur-in-Office, I am very pleased that a broad political majority has joined in unanimously to this. Of course, as the Right-Representative, the reaction to such a prohibition is: Is it really necessary? Isn't there enough regulation of personal freedom? There has therefore been a debate in its own party on this matter. But personal freedom is a good thing for the whole of society – until it hurts others or at the expense of the freedom of others. In this case, the rule of exception that has allowed smoking in service sites has both led to the injury of innocent people and to a reduction in the freedom of many. There are probably 120,000 people in this country who, with some form of lung disease or respiratory disease, are unable to take advantage of those serving places that most of us consider to be part of a good life — and in meeting employees’ organisations and patient organisations the response has been obvious: this is a change in law that will lead to increased freedom. During the consultation round, SINTEF, the tobacco industry and the National Association of Travel Companies have pointed to improved ventilation systems and so-called smoke curtains as a solution to the problem of passive smoking for employees and guests at catering sites. The other hearing bodies have supported the Ministry's assessment that this is not satisfactory. The opinions of SINTEF are based on the MRLs for the current action level. In the hearing of 29 September 2002 — paragraph 3 on the exposure of employees — they refer to unpublished measurements taken in a restaurant/bar on a Thursday, where the exposure of employees is below the action limit for service providers serving both smoking zones and smoking ban zones. This is an investigation carried out during the days of the week. Most people understand that the effect of ventilation curtains and facilities goes down significantly during weekends, when the premises are full of people, and people walk between different zones without respecting the smoking ban. That's what's happening today, and that's what you have to live to. In addition, the study is based on the current action limit. But in a larger survey, involving 940 offices and 91 homes in the United States, it was found that the average nicotine level was less than half of what we operate with as the current action limit. At these levels, it has been found, by comparison with other studies, that the risk of lung cancer and myocardial infarction is increased by 20-30 pst, compared to the risk to non-smokers who are not exposed to passive smoking. In retrospect, a letter from SINTEF has also come out stating that no health evaluation of their technical solution has been carried out versus the imposition of a smoking ban. The majority therefore consider that the introduction of better ventilation systems would not provide adequate protection against passive smoking for employees. The Joint Office of the tobacco industry and the National Association of Travel Companies have also pointed out that opening up smoking rooms without serving at catering sites could provide a satisfactory solution. The majority do not share this assessment. Although a physically decommissioned smoking room without a service could have led to an improvement in today's situation, it would still not have been sufficient. In practice, it will be difficult to enforce a food ban in parts of the room, and thus employees will have to provide for the cleaning, emptying of ashtrays and the like. It will be difficult during the most visited periods to prevent the smoke drifting out of the smoking room, and that doors are not kept closed. Such a solution would also physically require that the serving sites have an area to set aside for this type of purpose, and this in itself would result in a distortion of competition between the sites and a requirement to increase the yield area. Furthermore, the unprofessional part of the industry will use this rule to bypass the intention of law, which one, not least, looks like the practice of today's law. It is now 14 years since smoking bans were introduced in premises where the public has access. Since then, the service industry has had an exception to this rule. It is an exception that this amendment will remove. The acceptance that non-smokers are entitled to a smoke-free environment has been a question of maturation, and is a question of maturation. The various changes and the strengthening of the smoking law over the years have shown that changes that seemed unlikely to have been quickly received only a few years ago. I also think that would be the case with today's change in the smoking law. At the same time, we treat Ot.prp. No 42 for 2001-2002 on changes in the alcohol law and the Tobacco Injury Act. The main areas covered by the amendment are three: more effective handling of the advertising ban in the two laws by means of the introduction, inter alia. the possibility of a periodic penalty payment, a new and simplified system to allow the production of beer and wine for donation in its own establishment and a new and simplified system to allow the introduction of alcoholic beverages for donation or sale in its own establishment. All three amendments have received broad agreement within the Committee. There is reason to stress that it is gratifying that it is now easier to use local brewing traditions as part of a total concept, for example. in the case of farm tourism. Finally, I want to correct a defect in the cancellation regarding the alcohol law new § 9-3, new § 9-4 and new § 9-5. These changes are supported by all parties in the Committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, and not by an overall committee, as noted in the Committee's comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e95	In my article I will take note of the changes in the Act on Tobacco Protection. A later article by the Workers' Party will address the changes to the laws on the marketing of alcoholic beverages, etc. There are still new research reports on health damage from both active and passive smoking. The fact that very many become ill and die from smoking-related diseases is very well documented. Every day 20 Nordics die because of smoking. Hundreds of thousands of Norwegians have health problems that could have been avoided if they were not exposed to tobacco smoke. I remember the opposition to the smoking law introduced in 1988. At that time it was decided in this room that the air should be smoke-free in premises and means of transport where the public has access, and in meeting rooms, workplaces and institutions where two or more persons are gathered. Resistance was also strong among many politicians. Now, 15 years later, it's probably hardly anyone who disagrees with what was then adopted. The 1988 Act made an explicit derogation from the requirement for smoke-free air for serving places. The serving industry and the tobacco industry were granted the exemption they requested. Later, smoking zones have been introduced. The industry has to varying degrees followed up the requirements to have these zones. The fact that half of the tables should be smoke-free has improved the situation of many guests, but the employees are in no way protected from the smoking of others. I believe that no professional group other than the serving staff would be accepted to work in such a health-care working environment day in and day out. One thought experiment could be that the same poisons found in tobacco smoke would have been sprayed continuously into a workplace. I don't think anyone would have accepted it. Staff in the food industry are the professionals with the highest incidence of lung cancer and cardiovascular diseases. We can no longer just sit and watch this. In fact, many of them smoke themselves, but there can be no doubt that the smoking of guests greatly enhances the health damage they get. It concerns both running eyes, cough, chest pipe, and more serious diseases such as cancer, heart attack and stroke. The main reason why the Workers' Party wants smoke-free serving places is the health of its employees. Studies in California show that during a few weeks after the introduction of smoke-free bars in 1998, the health status improved dramatically. Before it was introduced, the entire 74 pst declared. that they had respiratory symptoms such as cough, tongue wheezing and wheezing in their chest. 77 pst. stated that they had eye, nose and throat irritations. A few weeks later, after the smoking ban, 32 pst respectively. and 19 pst. Same thing. I have noticed that the Travel Life Companies Association, RBL, and their lobbyists say that many serving sites will go bankrupt. That might happen, but not because it's going to be smoke-free. I would like to remind you that, according to the Evening Post, during the first ten months of the year, the number of outpatients who have gone bankrupt in Oslo and Akershus was recorded. 80 restaurants and one bar had to go down. There are more than one in 2001, when 72 restaurants and four bars went to the doll. With as many outdoor sites as there are now, there is good reason to believe that this trend continues. The new thing is that the industry will claim that it's the smoking law that's to blame. Smoke-free serving sites are widely supported by the population. A poll that LHL has conducted shows that the entire 80 pst. believes that workers in the catering industry should have the same right to smoke-free working environment as all other professional groups. Another measurement from the same organisation shows that the entire 85 pst. they'll go out as much or more when it gets smoke free. Several other measurements made after the presentation of the proposal show that there is a majority for completely smoke-free outdoors. It's not surprising. We don't go out to smoke, but to eat, drink and have fun with others. The measurements I refer to are ordered from VG, Tobacco Free and LHL. I have observed one measurement where there is a majority against the law, and it was ordered by the tobacco industry. Former Minister of Health, Tore Tønne, was concerned with the health of employees when, in 2001, he submitted proposals to consult on the amendment of the smoking law. He did not take a stand as to whether the serving points should be completely smoke-free, but it was one of the alternatives. Hearing replies almost gave clear support to completely smoke-free outdoors. State Council The Højbråten and the Government have followed up this in a good way. Today, we see that the majority of the population takes the health of their employees seriously and will no longer accept that the employees become ill and die because of a poor working environment. SINTEF Energy Research, RBL and the tobacco industry have argued for a so-called ventilation curtain. This was also the case rapporteur. In an NTB notification, SINTEF Energy Research states that it has received technical support from Norwegian Ventilation and Energy Technology Association and quotes its opinion that ventilation correctly designed, properly installed, properly operated and properly maintained can protect employees and non-smoking audiences from tobacco smoke within the applicable limits. I agree with the National Institute for Public Health, which has stated that this solution is not robust enough to protect employees from health damage. Having read, in addition, the letter from SINTEF dated 21 November 2002, with their official view, I am absolutely convinced that this is not a satisfactory solution. Here's what it says: ‘SINTEF is committed to the overall assessments made by the Health Directorate in relation to the imposition of total smoking bans at restaurants and other outpatients. The so-called ‘ventilation curtain’ developed in SINTEF is a technical solution that, in certain situations, can protect persons who are involuntaryly exposed to tobacco smoke. No health evaluation of this technical solution has been carried out in SINTEF versus the fact that smoking bans have been imposed.’ This is and will be a good forward-looking law for both employees and guests. We in the Labour Party will therefore give it our full support.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e130	The government, at the time of presenting the matter that we now have to deal with, has shown its willingness to tree its own and partly extreme anti-smoking attitudes across the heads of the Norwegian people. They can do this in full assurance that they in this Chamber have the support of all parties other than the Advance Party. The Minister of Health has demonstrated through this matter that his intention is to force the Norwegian people to dance after his pipe in this matter. When one also sees who has been chosen to bring a case and draft hearing in the pen, one cannot be surprised that the draft was as it was. The government indicates that all employees should have the opportunity to have a smoke-free job, and this would in itself be a legitimate objective if this had been a believer. I have to admit that I have a suspicion that this is an argument that is put forward in order to bring with me the LO, and therefore also the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The background to my suspicion is that if this were really the reason, one could at least have supported a scheme in which unofficial smoking rooms were allowed. A number of restaurants, cafes, bars and other service establishments have loyally followed the instructions of the authorities with regard to improved ventilation requirements, breakdown by smoke-free table and follow-up where smoking is not permitted. But then there is also a good part that unfortunately has not followed up these prescriptions. However, this may not be a good enough reason to ban smoking at all serving sites in Norway. In this way, a premium is given to those who have always given the bluff in the orders that have come, and in addition, to those who have invested large sums to meet the current requirements. In this context, there is also reason to note that, on the public side, the controls and measures necessary to make the imposed active have not been put in place. It is claimed in the proposition that it is not possible to obtain adequate solutions by means of ventilation systems, air curtains, etc. This is with respect to reporting undocumented claims, such as: have been refused by both TELFO and SINTEF Technical Entrepreneurs. In this context, there is reason to note the following consultation opinion from, among others. SINTEF: ‘What has been written about ventilation in the hearing note contains so many defects and deficiencies, and is so trendy that we have difficulty taking it seriously’. It also says: ‘Our studies show that proper ventilation can protect employees and non-smoking audiences against tobacco smoke within the current limits.’ I'm not surprised that the Minister of Health and the Christian People's Party wants to force the Norwegian people's opinions through state decisions, but I'm a little surprised that the Right is in the same position. I also fear littering and more trouble outside the restaurants when people bring themselves drinks out or try to do so, even if this is illegal. But I guess the Minister of Health just looks at it as a positive effect that there are fewer people working in this industry, and that it is positive from the point of view that this is an industry that it is not necessarily very good to have. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Progress Party will vote against any changes to the Smoking Act, but we will also make proposals that if the Act is passed, unauthorised smoking rooms will be allowed. Against this background, I am promoting the proposal of the Advance Party, which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e155	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e158	Norway has had a law on protection against tobacco damage since 9 March 1973. Much has happened in the cold water because we got the law. There has been a ban on tobacco advertising in the 1970s, as has alcohol advertising. But the biggest change probably occurred in 1988 under then Social Minister Tove Strand Gerhardsen when the proposal for a ban on smoking in workplaces was raised. I remember that there were strong reactions. I would like to say that when you look afterwards at the consequences of the ban, it must be one of the most forward-looking legislative proposals that have been promoted, and it was adopted in 1988. It has dramatically changed society as we knew it from before. When you think back that it was possible, no matter where you stayed, whether it was in a public office or anywhere, and you brought kids, that employees you were supposed to talk to, sit and smoke, there's a foreign world when we think back. And that's just 14 years ago. We have seen how the airlines, on their own initiative, took the initiative in the 1990s to ensure that the cabin should be smoke-free, because the cabin crew should initially have the right to work and stay in a smoke-free environment. I believe that most people today would be strangers to the idea that it should be allowed to smoke again in an airplane, where you cannot protect yourself from the ringing effects of the smoke and the damage that it is well documented that smoking gives. In this sense, it may be illustrative that there are relatively few members of this debate today, both in the press department and in the gallery, because the change that is taking place is not in itself more dramatic than following up on something that has existed for many years, and is now being introduced also at outdoors, in serving places. So you just remove an exception. Thus, the SV fundamentally disagrees with the Progress Party in their angle of this and with what the Government is doing, because what you are doing is to meet the demands of workers on a smoke-free environment, which the law has always arranged for for all other groups, except those who have worked in serving places. I will nevertheless give tribute to the Minister of Health for having taken the initiative he has taken. It's not more than a couple of years since we were asked by organizations working for smoke-free environments in general, if we thought that the matter was mature, and that there would be a majority in the Stortinge who would be willing to support the freedom of smoke in the outdoors. Most of the politicians in Stortinget answered the question that the matter was hardly mature for it, and that it was hardly a political will to do so. Thus, it has not been obvious that you would bring a large number of people. But the fact that so many parties still stand together – it is only the Progress Party that is opposed – is a very positive result. I'm convinced that when a few years have passed, we'll think back to the time when one could smoke in the outdoors, and then one couldn't protect oneself from the smoking of others, just as we think today in other areas of society. I think that the argument that has come from employee organisations related to the serving industry within the LO is not excluded. One can discuss the personal freedom each should have when one goes out, but the freedom each should have to be able to work in an environment that is smoke-free must, however, be general. If we don't take that kind of consideration, we also agree to support under a kind of professional ban for those who are shy of it. You have allergy sufferers and people who have significant respiratory and lung problems, who simply won't be able to work in this industry. SV therefore strongly supports the fact that the last step is now being taken in terms of the smoking law and in this way introduces general laws and guidelines for all employees, including the last group we are talking about here. That this should be somewhat doubtful from the Government, as I sense the Advance Party believes, I am just wondering. This is part of a social development we've seen going on over time, from 1973 onward. I have recorded that the Progress Party has always argued against it in a very reactionary way, but it is a development that may not be stopped, as we see running parallel in other countries, and that will allow us to see many countries in a few years' time doing exactly what Norway is doing now. Some countries have already done so. We know about states in the United States that have had that kind of law ban for many years. When the Social Committee has been travelling abroad, we have also recorded that more and more places today are smoke-free. So this does not happen in a vacuum, where Norway stands out as a kind of different country that goes extremely far, but on the contrary as part of a development we see internationally today. That's why it's hoped, when a few more years have gone by, that this is not just happening to us, but that we'll see it in most countries that it's natural for Norway to compare with. I would also like to address the proposal that we have with the Centre Party on alcohol legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e179	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e182	Few cases have recently been as remarkable as the law on protection against tobacco damage. When it applies to most of the things covered by this law, I would like to see the case-speaker's thorough presentation. The government has taken a courageous step when, in the form of law, it will make all workplaces smoke free, and there is good reason to commend the Minister of Health especially for this bill. Today it is mainly the restaurant and hotel industries that remain. All the data, all the numbers and all the information available tell us that passive smoking is also harmful to health. This is what the government and a solid plurality of the social committee want to do – for this reason, the bill. The legislative proposal places Norway at the forefront of the fight against smoking injuries, and it is gratifying that the organisations of employees in the hotel and restaurant industries have broken this law. They consume a smoke-free work environment, like everyone else. And they'll get that from 1 January next year. From the hotel and restaurant industries it has our resistance to the laws. They have pointed to the practical difficulties that they think will arise. We have to take this seriously when it comes from a serious industry. A few years ago, smoking in staff rooms, on airplanes, in meetings, and many other places where people were gathered was common. Today, this is unmistakable. But when these bans came, the counterclaims against regulation were present, just as we register today here in the hall and in society. The hotel and restaurant industries have a six-month period to adapt or adjust to the new law following the decision that will be taken today. I am reasonably overconfident that after some time we will adopt what we adopt today, be seen as natural and of course. And we're not alone in the world with such regulations. We read about it in other countries. Last out was New York, which has made decisions about the same content as what we put up here today. When it comes to the Progress Party's attacks on the Minister of Health, and to a particular extent on the Christian People's Party, I take it quite calmly. At least we've done something very funny if we've managed to get both the LO and all the games on the Stortinget to go into a trap here. I think they're all well able to think for themselves, and I'm glad we're working with them for a better and more smoke-free society. But I'm sorry that the Progress Party here behaves very old-fashioned and little in the pact with what a modern society requires. When it concerns the central party's proposals here to evaluate the promises later after three years, I'll just say that there should be things about this law that don't work like the plurals have had intentions about, I of course argued that the government will come back with it long before that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e203	Five minutes on these two laws are very short time, but I'll take some points here. In the case of Ot.prp. No 42 for 2001-2002, which is the largest in the United Kingdom, we are pleased that the proposal here is a direct follow-up to previous decisions in the United Kingdom, that a system should be in place to ensure that you can sell your own alcoholic product in order to ensure the development of nutrition in travel and agriculture. We think this could be an interesting arrangement as an alternative to the culture of pizza and raspberry. We also believe that this law can be practised in a modest way, so that production facilities can be approved in close proximity to the service facilities in order to make this work in a reasonable way. On the other hand, we are much more concerned about what is in the proposition regarding authorisation for the introduction of alcoholic beverages for sale or donation in our own business. We know from the hearing notes that, among other things, LO, Norwegian Food and Drug Workers' Association, the Association of Hotel and Restaurant Workers, the National Council of the Afstands, the Directorate of Customs and Fees and the Directorate of Drugs have comments on this, and some of these hearing bodies are directly opposed to the introduction of such alcoholic beverages for sale or donation in their own activities. We agree with that and show, among other things: to the report drawn up by the grantor Niels Kristian Aksensen for several departments in the field of gift practices, and considers that there is reason to believe that controls are becoming quite difficult here. There are several things that need to be weighed out, including: whether the imported beverages are dangerous to health and whether they contain illegal substances, plus full control of quantities. We also believe it is wrong that the wine monopoly, which currently has a monopoly on retail sales, should have the right to import. We are afraid that it will give ESA or competing companies in Norway the opportunity to challenge this and say that if the wine monopoly is to be allowed to import, other importers must also be allowed to make retail sales. We are in favour of a monopoly system on retail sales, as we have today, and want to support both it and a serious restaurant business. As far as imports are concerned, we believe that the most effective wholesale allocation we have today is the one we have. So to the smoking law. We support the proposal on smoke-free serving places primarily for workers' working environment and health. Many have made good arguments there, so I shouldn't say as much health professionals about this in the short time I have left. We also believe that a law ban will extend the personal freedom of many who today have a limited freedom to go out because they have asthma, allergies or other respiratory problems that make them unable to be out in a smoke-filled environment. In the Manneråk Committee’s investigation ‘From user to citizen’, this is pointed out, and we believe that a more accessible society for all means that we should look at non-smoking premises. We also believe that smoke-free outdoors can have a preventative effect in the long term, especially in the case of young people’s smoking habits. So finally, something that the Center Party is all alone. These changes to the Smoking Act have created some major discussions, and there have been relatively many counter-representations to the law, especially from the hotel and restaurant owners' side. It was quiet for a very long time, and it was assumed that there was agreement in the hotel and restaurant industries, both on the employee and on the employer side, but that has not been the case for the last six months. We believe that smoking can have practical consequences for hotels and restaurants, all-activity rooms and for example. community houses, where there can now be relatively large conversions. These are consequences that we have to look at, but we also have to look at the positive consequences of this law and measure what is the outcome of this smoking law in the long term. Therefore, we want the Tobacco Damage Act, and in particular Section 6, to be evaluated no later than three years after the amendments have entered into force. I am pleased with the representative of the Aarøen saying that if there are weaknesses here, something that does not work, the government will of course have to come back with it. But I think we should have the opportunity to signal this already now, so that you follow this carefully and professionally. I'm taking up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e228	The representative, Ola D. Glütvold, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e231	The left will join the proposals of the majority in the Committee on this matter. When it comes to the first bit, we are very pleased with the changes that have come to the alcohol laws, which will allow the serving of own alcohol products and the introduction of halls or donations into their own business. This proposal follows the objective of securing business development in tourism and agriculture, where one can focus on local traditions, products and culture. In the left we've had a lot of recordings and a lot of commitment to this for a long time, and we think it's good and right policy. It is important for Norwegian travel and for many small businesses, and there is a new step in the ‘Simplify Norway’ project, in which the Left has a special commitment. Left also supports changes to smoking laws and the comments made by multiple users in this case. It's clear that the cause is a classic liberal dilemma. We want freedom from the individual, but the border goes where this freedom violates the freedom of others. We're probably content to restrict the freedom to smoke to secure others' right to breathe in fresh and smoke-free air. There are today a lot of people who can't travel in places because smoke is a big nuisance and damage. At any rate, the new laws will provide far more opportunities to use different services, and it is also a very important contribution to securing those who have their jobs in the restaurant and hotel industries. Many people who have had posts in the hall today have been about this very thing. We understand that some smokers can respond to the proposal, but we strongly reject the fact that it is a rash of fanaticism, as the Progress Party says in its comments. This case is about taking care of those who can get health damage, and besides giving all people the same opportunity to enjoy the good life in a restaurant or a pub. I actually think that a lot of today's smokers also support these laws and want to take care of those who don't smoke, and those who can get health damage from this. I heard earlier that it was said that many years ago – I was hoping – it was actually possible to smoke in this room. There's a development going on, and it's positive for all of the people who are being subjected to health damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e244	Several of the legislative proposals that Odelstinget has been invited to deal with today are largely about human freedom. I have to say that it is strange to hear the arguments against smoking legislation and also against the provisions contained in alcohol legislation, in particular from the Progress Party in this Chamber, under the cover of the issue of freedom and coercion. It can't be that way, even for the Progress Party, that any law coming out of this room would mean that in many ways, something unjustly is being forced down the heads of the Nordics. The concept of freedom becomes completely empty if we can't fill it with just taking care of those who have problems, perhaps far beyond the majority of us, both when they visit a smoke-filled restaurant and when they work in a smoke-filled restaurant. As you can see, liberals like Adam Smith and others have drawn clear boundaries to the freedom of the individual, just in the cases that the Stortinget has been invited to deal with today. What I would like to comment on with regard to the decisions now to be taken by Odelstingen is the changes in relation to effective sanctions in relation to the ban on advertising tobacco and alcohol. It is a proposal that the Labour Party welcomes. Such rules, and insofar as the provisions on smoking bans also apply, are almost worthless if we cannot enforce them effectively. The issue of bans on alcohol advertising and bans on tobacco advertising is very important. Firstly, we know that there is a particular pressure against the ban on alcohol advertising. I believe that in itself it will be important for Norway as a nation to show that we can enforce the ban effectively. An empty ban on alcohol advertising has no value either in relation to its own population or in any international body that would have anything to say to us. In addition, the ban on alcohol advertising and the ban on tobacco advertising may be some of the most important awareness-raising measures we have in relation to the fight against the use of both alcohol and tobacco. In this way, the absence of alcohol and tobacco advertising is far more valuable than many of the awareness campaigns run in both fields. That is why it is very good to ensure that effective sanctions are applied in relation to those who break the ban on alcohol and tobacco advertising. I am somewhat surprised that the Progress Party is also not with the majority in this Chamber in this area, precisely because the Progress Party on every occasion is very strongly focused on the fact that when both people and institutions break rules and laws, it must react quickly, efficiently and preferably rigorously. This shall be exempted. In the case of the interest in money, business interests and in this case those who earn money on the sale of tobacco and alcohol, the Advance Party supports it. It's sad. Fortunately, the majority does the opposite. The possibility of responding to infringements of both the ban on alcohol and tobacco advertising is therefore particularly important. It is my hope that the authorities, the ministry and the directorate will be able to use the new home, especially in relation to the periodic penalty payment, to those who break the ban on alcohol advertising. For a long time, we have seen that both reports and other reactions to the ban on alcohol advertising have almost no response. I'm sorry. Such a hollowing is inherently unfortunate. Therefore, there is reason to welcome the opportunity that is now given to a flexible and, at my discretion, also a processally cheap and unbureaucratic system. I am sure that it will also be the only thing that has an effect on those who break the ban on alcohol advertising and tobacco advertising, or who have an intention to do so, by giving them an opportunity to impose such a periodic penalty payment. There is reason to ask why the Progress Party chooses to have a soft line, both criminal and legal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e257	In this proposition, I propose amendments to the Alcohol Act and the Tobacco Damage Act. The proposals for amendments to the Tobacco Injury Act fall within the responsibility of the Minister of Health and are promoted with the agreement of the Minister of Health. The proposition contains three proposals: Firstly, with the agreement of the Minister of Health, I propose to establish a framework for the introduction of an administrative response in the form of corrections and periodic penalty payments in order to increase the effectiveness of enforcement of the bans on advertising for alcohol and tobacco and the labelling of tobacco. The ban on advertising is an important part of alcohol policy. Similarly, there is the ban on advertising tobacco products. As it emerges from the Committee's position, there is also a broad cross-political consensus on this. For advertising bans to work, they must be effectively enforced. Even after today's legislation, an infringement of the advertising ban is punishable. In the event of an infringement of the prohibition of advertising by the alcohol law, the withdrawal of authorization is also a possible sanction. However, these forms of penalties may not always be effective. There is therefore a need for an alternative form of reaction. I therefore propose that, in the case of infringements, the Directorate for Social and Health should be able to impose correction of the situation within a specified period. At the same time, they will be able to fix periodic penalty payments which will run if the corrective period is exceeded. I also propose that, in exceptional circumstances, periodic penalty payments may be established for possible future infringements of the advertising provisions. This is a narrow rule of exception, which should only be used where necessary to ensure effective enforcement of the advertising bans. Decisions on correction and periodic penalty payments will be individual decisions which may be appealed against. The Market Council is proposed to be the Board of Appeal. Secondly, I propose a new and simplified system of authorisation for the production of beer and wine for donation in my own establishment. The background to the proposal is Decision No. 127 for 1999-2000, where the Stortinget asked the Government to submit proposals for a specific authorisation scheme which should be linked to both the provision of food and the donation, and limited to outsourcing in places where production, serving and donation are to take place. The specific authorisation scheme covering local traditional drinks of beer, wine and sides should be low in red tape and at an acceptable cost. The background to the proposal is primarily the desire to promote the potential of the combination of local traditions and economic development in general, and the relationship between local food and drink and tourism in particular. The main elements of the proposal are: The municipality should be able to extend, at discretion, a grant of a gift to include the production of beer and wine for the donation of its own activities.The permit may include the production of the same types of alcoholic beverages as the grant of the gift, but not of wine with added alcohol or spirits.It is a condition that the production appears to be part of the overall offer and nature of the place of serving.It is not proposed to propose a specific grant fee linked to the scheme. Thirdly, I propose a new and simplified system of authorisation for the introduction of alcoholic beverages for donation or sale in my own company, and a very limited right of entry for the AS Wine Monopoly. This means: The granting authority – the municipality or the State – may, at the discretion of the Court, extend a grant of concession to include the introduction of alcoholic beverages for donation in its own establishment, or a sales permit to include the introduction of beer for sale in its own establishment.The grant may include the introduction of the types of alcoholic beverages covered by the sale or gift authorisation.No additional requirements are required to hold such an extension than those applicable to the sale or gift authorisation.No special fees are proposed for the scheme.The granting of a Community sales authorisation to the AS Vinmonopolet under the first paragraph of Section 3-1 of the Alcohol Act cannot be extended as mentioned above.It is, however, proposed to provide a regulatory body opening up the AS Vinmonoolet with a limited right to introduce alcoholic beverages on behalf of customers who have ordered for their own use a product which does not exist in the Vinmonopolet selection. The scheme provides for a limited derogation from the general rule that alcoholic beverages may only be introduced by the holder of a wholesale or manufacturing authorisation. The aim of the alcohol law is to minimise the social and individual harms that alcohol consumption can cause. The law’s licensing system is a very important prevention tool aimed at the supply side, which allows the availability of alcoholic beverages to be regulated and the marketing of alcoholic beverages to be controlled. The proposals to authorise the making of beer and wine for donation in their own activities or the introduction of alcoholic beverages for donation or sale in their own activities do not represent any exemption from the authorisation system and do not mean increased availability for consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e321	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e324	I want to ask the Council of State a question that concerns the smoking law. The fact that a government council from the Christian People's Party shows a foresight and prohibition attitude in a matter such as the Smoking Act, no one surprises, but that this is supported by the Right, is mildly surprising, especially since some of the guttering representatives from this party went high on the track and opposed the proposal for a total ban on smoking in restaurants. So it was claimed in the proposition that the purpose is to protect the employees from cigarette smoke. But if that's the reason, I'm going to ask Schou what's the reason why the Right also votes against having unofficial smoking rooms. Here you can blow out in advance, you can put in a ventilation system, get curtains, so that smoke doesn't drift out of the unattended smoking rooms. It is also not intended that employees should enter the period of smoking there. And then my question is to the councillor Schou: if the purpose is to protect the employees, will the Right also be able to go in for unattended smoking rooms?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e333	When the Government promotes a case of ban on smoking in restaurants, bars, etc., it is in the interests of the employees. Employees also serve unofficial smoking rooms. It's not that the area where people travel in the outdoor areas should not be served in any way. It has been important for the Government to give a signal that this is for the sake of employees. That's the one. But there's good reason for, in any case, to give signals that smoking actually isn't the trick you can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e340	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is strange when you hear the answer given by the Council of State, that you should not go into a room where there is ventilation and there is no smoking when you have to go in to clean up, but at the same time you have to open up a smoking room for the employees. How does this relate? You want to give a signal that customers are not allowed to take a smoke, but that employees are required to have a smoking room. Can the Council explain how these two things relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e347	I understand that the Progress Party neither likes the matter nor the content of it and now does everything to try to get attention to the fact that it is healthy to smoke, that is freedom for the individual, and one should not regulate these areas. The case is lost. The consideration of employees is an important issue. At the same time, it is also important to give a signal that smoke is actually harmful and affects the individual’s health. Working within these restaurants, bars, etc. is in any case a load and there is a passive load applied to the individual worker. There's nothing here in the law that says there's no smoking. It's a choice of its own, and it's a voluntary choice. But the fact that at work you are exposed to a poison that is dangerous to your health is the most important point in this case. I think it's amazing that the Progress Party in a way doesn't see that this is a matter that the majority of people have actually supported, and that the Progress Party is now desperately trying to make cheap points out of.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e356	A brief, simple question to the Minister for Social Affairs: Who is to serve the smoking rooms of employees? I would like a clear answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e361	I expect that the Storting has not intended to deal with how this is organized out there. To that it is easy to answer: if I were the restaurant owner, I would say that those who smoke and who choose to do it in the employees' smoking rooms, also serve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e367	I want to hear the Social Minister's assessment of the situation in which the Vinmonopolet will come when they are now given the opportunity to import alcoholic goods themselves. The wine monopoly was created as a retail monopoly because of the fear that ESA would prohibit the exclusive right of the wine monopoly if it had a combination of retail sales and imports. So now you're opening up for this type of import. Is the Minister of Social Affairs concerned about the weakening of the position of the monopoly and the role of monopoly in retail sales, and is it also so that it is completely impossible to get others with import authorisation to import what the Vinmonopolet wanted in its range of products in order to satisfy all customers? I believe that those who are allowed to import today must be so interested in satisfying their customers, including the Wine Monopoly, that they have the opportunity to get the range they want through the scheme that is already in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e374	The ESA believes that the Norwegian licensing system is too strict and has also criticised this in a so-called opening letter in the autumn of 1998. Criticism is addressed, among others: whereas establishments authorized by virtue of this appropriation may also introduce alcoholic beverages for donation. ESA is aware of the proposal which lies within the United Kingdom and has made enquiries about the progress of the case. The proposal responds in many ways to ESA’s criticism of the fact that it replaces such a registration scheme. It is important to have good and effective control over one sector that is a bit lurking. However, this proposal does not make such monitoring more difficult – if I can also comment on the questions of the representative. There is reason to believe that the scheme will have a limited spread, with the strict requirements of customs. On the other hand, it clearly simplifies those who may receive such extended appropriations. Actors can also – alternatively – obtain state wholesale approval, but this is expensive. And it's heavy, cf. The Storting order to the Government regarding production schemes, which was just proposed by the Stortinget because state wholesale allocation is too heavy for those who will make for donations in their own company. And it's going to be equivalent to the introduction. The monopoly of wine is an important institution in Norwegian society. And I see it so that this to a limited extent is a scheme that they can handle.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e383	SV is in agreement with the Central Party on the minority proposal relating to continued imports via the Vinmonopolet. We don't want to facilitate parallel imports under the control of different outlets, and there may be several reasons for this. We see it as important to keep the system of wine monopolies and have good state controls. We are afraid that any step that is now being taken towards getting different actors is a step towards other mechanisms to replace the Vinmonopoly, which we believe will be a weakness in the eyes of a sobering policy. One then loses the means that one could otherwise have continued to use. What I want to ask the Council of State is: with a background to various issues that have been dealt with in ESA and that have to do with Norwegian alcohol policy, is she also concerned about the direction that alcohol policy is starting to take? I want to highlight in particular the consequences of selling cannabis in the shops. There are now many reports, including: the placing of the products in such a way that normal showers and showering are taken into account in the purchase. Other, including: Tromsø Municipality, has ordered that what is about to develop is unfortunate. Does the Council also see a number of concerns about the fact that Rausbrus has now become part of the range of goods in normal Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e390	Yes, I too see the dangers and am concerned about what is happening in the area of drug shower and the constant availability, especially in relation to children and young people. But I also want to comment on the Ballos view in relation to control in this area. In particular, there are very strict requirements for imports into Norway, and customs authorities also exercise good control. With regard to the issue of intoxication and intoxication and the danger of confusing birthday shower with raisin, I have the same focus on this as the representative of Ballo. That is why I have also had good contact with importers and with the large chains to enforce the labelling requirements. The labelling is one thing, another is a requirement for location in the store, but also a requirement for age control. There are good examples now that municipalities actually take this seriously, and that there are revenues in this sale, which means that municipalities actually have the means to exercise control, and that they are actually using the alcohol law and the alcohol law to those who are not enforcing the law and who are selling to minors. But it's also about placement, and here too there's attention. I'm going to follow this area carefully. Alcohol is a legal product. But at the same time, an appropriation should be easy to obtain, but it should also be easy to lose. It is important that municipalities, as well as we as central authorities, monitor developments in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e401	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e404	I'm probably one of the few in this house who took the test in the alcohol law and has a gift permit. We are discussing two legislative proposals today. One applies to the alcohol law, and the other to the smoking law. And I actually feel qualified to participate in the debate on both. First of all, as everyone knows, I have a boat down in the harbour – and it has a gift permit. So I took the test and passed it with shine. This does not mean that the alcohol law is too bad. I think the alcohol law is good as it is. The second thing I want to say is that in 1971 I stopped smoking. But I didn't become a fanatic for that reason! I stopped smoking for both economic and health reasons. But if people want to shorten their lives by smoking, they just have to do it. The same is true of me if they use drugs or alcohol. It's up to everyone. If we've come so far in this country and the guardian state has become so special that we're going to regulate whether people are going to be allowed to shorten their lives, then it's going to go over all the boots. There are today technologies that allow smoking zones and non-smoking zones to be held in restaurants. In all cases, the Committee has agreed that there should be a smoking room for employees, while the employees of the same restaurant should not be able to inhale smoke from those who come there. I don't understand! I have to tell a little anecdote from the last six months about my gluten – he's 16 years old – that was inside an outhouse with some friends. When he was on his way out of the house and was locking the door, the police stood next to him and wanted to enter the house. If we've gotten so far in this community that the police can come and harass our children, that they want to go into an outhouse to see what's going on, then the police have too little to do. But after what we have heard in this matter, they have too much to do. The big problems they don't take care of, but the small problems they take care of. If we decide in this room, as the country's top organ, that people should not be allowed to move freely in this country, that people should not be allowed to smoke and shorten their lives if they want to, then it goes over all the dusty night – I say it again. Think of the old ones lying on their bed and smoking, and who have smoked all their lives. The home help may refuse to enter that house because it smells like smoke. That's what we've decided. We have decided that home help can refuse to enter that house because it smokes there. We are in the process of legislating the private sphere. We are in the process of deciding not to smoke in private homes. Then the home help with the law can refuse to go in there. It's been adopted in the Storting. I don't get it. In any case, I am going to vote against the entire legislative proposal that has been submitted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e421	I see it as an important social responsibility to facilitate good preventive health work. Annually, approx. 7 500 people in Norway for smoking injuries and illnesses. In addition to those who smoke themselves, it is estimated that between 350 and 550 non-smokers in Norway die annually from passive smoking. Tobacco use is the main single cause of disease and early death that can be prevented. As health politicians, we have to do something about it. Tobacco injury prevention is therefore a priority for me as Minister of Health. Propositions currently being dealt with in Odelstinget are one of several important prevention measures to limit the health damage caused by tobacco use to the population. I am pleased that the majority of the Social Committee endorses these proposals. The introduction of smoke-free serving sites will be a historic milestone in the fight against the health damage caused by tobacco. The starting point of Section 6 of the Tobacco Injury Act is freedom of smoking in premises where the public has access, in workplaces and in institutions. For almost 15 years, the service industry in Norway has had an exception to the general rule on smoking freedom in the Tobacco Injury Act. Those who advocate intermediate solutions in this case have had 15 years to try these intermediate solutions. This derogation is now being proposed. The main reason for introducing smoke-free serving points is the consideration of employees. As a result of passive smoking at the workplace, waiters have an unacceptable risk of developing cancer or heart attack. Male waiters are the profession of society with the highest overall incidence of cancer and the highest incidence of lung cancer and cancer in the urinary bladder. The high incidence of cancer among waiters has many causes, but passive smoking is probably a significant contributory cause. Smoke-free serving sites will make an important contribution to improving health for industry employees. That is why there has been an important issue for the trade union movement. I will commend the Hotel and Restaurant Association and LO for the efforts made in this connection. Some people have thought that it is a paradox that smoking is allowed for employees at service stations, while smoking is not allowed elsewhere in the workplace, i.e. the place of supply. To this I would say that it is optional for employees to use a smoking room, but it is not optional to stay in the rest of the work space. This is also in line with that of other jobs, where it is up to the employer to decide whether to have a smoking room or not for the employees. In addition to the consideration of staff at service points, the consideration of guests plays an important role. Many guests are plagued by smoke in serving places. In addition to those afflicted, 120,000 asthmatics and at least as many allergy sufferers have health problems at all by going to restaurants and other outdoors where smoking is permitted. The smoking ban will apply in places where food and/or drink are served and where there is room for an on-site service. Sites likely to be subject to the ban include: restaurants, cafes, pastries, discos, bars, pubs and the like In the debate before and after the Government promoted Ot.prp. No 23 noted that the working environment of workers at service points could also be ensured with less restrictive solutions than the total ban. That's not the government's opinion. Both ventilation solutions and physical separations between smoking zones and smoking prohibition zones have been mentioned. However, such instruments will not prevent employees in these areas from being exposed to passive smoking. It will also create a distortion of competition in the industry, as not all service providers will have the same opportunity to construct the premises in accordance with such requirements. With regard to the economic impact of smoke-free food serving facilities on the industry, it is natural to look at experiences from other places where similar bans have been introduced. There is no evidence that smoking restrictions result in a significant long-term market failure or economic decline for the industry. These experiences cannot say for sure about the effects of such a ban in Norway, but they may give an indication that the effects may be similar here. However, the purpose of such regulation is more burdensome than any negative economic impact on industry. In this context, it should also be borne in mind that the introduction of intermediate solutions such as ventilation solutions and physical divisions could also entail significant economic costs to industry. The introduction of smoke-free serving sites may also have positive economic effects, as it allows for other customer groups, leading to lower sick leave and lower costs of ventilation, maintenance and cleaning. Finally, let me inform you that I intend the law to come into force in the spring of 2004, but it is fully possible for the relevant establishments to introduce it already now. It also opens up today's legislation. Finally, I would like to comment briefly on the conspiracy theory put forward by the Progress Party here today regarding what has really happened in this case. If it were to be the case that the Minister of Health and the Christian People's Party, through a coup, had now caused the entire Norwegian people to dance after our pipe, it is strange that the majority of Storting – all except the Advance Party – have let themselves be captivated by the whole trade movement and large sections of the population. It's a conspiracy theory that falls on its own unreasonableness, and it's easy to establish.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e449	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e452	Now, I haven't talked about coups, conspiracy theories, or the fact that the Storting is tricked, but we've shown the argument that's in the pen, where you talk about what's going on in the working environment for the employees on the one hand, while talking about smoking rooms being allowed. I'm not going to go further than that, because I don't think it has any purpose to discuss what's going on smoking with the Health Minister at all, because he's been stuck in one track, and we're probably pretty far apart. But what I want to ask the Minister of Health is what goes on the claim that it is not possible to make ventilation systems work. In this connection, I would like to mention, inter alia: refer to an article in the Official Journal of Drammen by Jostein Skree, who is the director of the Land Association of Technical Entrepreneurs – and I have previously also referred to SINTEF. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘It is sad to note that in their proposal on smoke-free serving points, the authorities almost underestimate the essential facts about the proper use of ventilation. Of course, all key professional environments will be able to establish that proper ventilation protects against passive smoking and improves the working environment of employees.» My question to the Minister of Health is about the professional environments used in the Department, as both these professional bodies, both SINTEF and TELFO, which are the ventilating suppliers' organisations, point out the opposite of what the Minister of Health and the Government claim in their proposition. Can the Minister of Health tell the undersigned and this room what expertise in ventilation it is that underpins the Government's claim that it is not possible to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e464	It has been interesting to follow the line of argument of the Advance Party in this case. The Progress Party now strongly argues in order to keep the smoking law of the day. It will also be the consequences of the vote that the Progress Party has taken today. Then it's quite interesting to see how the Progress Party argued when the law they're now fighting to maintain was passed. In 1988 the proponents of the Progressive Party characterized the bill as hesitant, manipulative, and unsocial. They used to confuse the same arguments against the law that they are now fighting for, which they use against the bill that the Government has promoted. It shows in my view that in this matter the world is moving forward, but the party that calls itself the Progress Party is quite silent in its argument. It also shows in my view that when these legislative proposals work for a while, they are accepted, even by the Progress Party. I think that will also apply to the proposal we are debating today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e477	The question I asked is clearly that the Minister of Health has not brought with him. I asked a specific question to the Minister of Health, to whom I expect to be answered, by pointing out in writing in an odelstingsproposition and saying from the Spokesman's Chair that it is not possible to find solutions in the case of ventilation systems that can take what is going on in tobacco smoke. I asked the Minister for Health the following: what expertise can be shown to substantiate the claims contained in the proposition, which have been made from this pulpit, by claiming this? This must be known, as the professional bodies, at least in Norway, have demonstrated the opposite. In this case, the Progress Party stands still: yes, it's actually law, and it's actually possible at least to try to get to something. We don't want this law, because we think it's going too far. But in addition, we say that if the majority still get it in place, it must at least be possible to get unofficial smoking rooms, where it is optional to go in and clean afterwards – after it is vented – as it would be in a staff room. But you haven't gone into that. But my question to the Minister of Health is this: What kind of professional environment is it based on, which underpins the argument of the Minister of Health and the Government that it is not possible to capture what is involved in the pollution of tobacco smoke by ventilation? What kind of professional environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e489	Prime Minister Dagfinn Værvik – Prime Minister Dagfinn Høybräten – Councillor Dagfinn Høybräten! This became violent.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e492	I thank you for your trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e497	It was quite big!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e500	I think it is a significant point throughout this debate that the changes that have been introduced to restrictions on smoking in public places and that have been implemented elsewhere in society, for example. on aircraft, have been controversial when they have arrived, but they have been quickly accepted, in such a way that no one today will return to the time when one had smoking in meetings, on planes, etc. It is my humble prediction that it will also happen with this law. So I'll answer the question. It is a total derailment of the debate to make it a question of how good ventilation systems we can create. Ventilation systems will certainly be able to increase both comfort and well-being in a room, but so far ventilation systems are not capable of removing arsenic, benzene, cyanide, carbon, carbon monoxide or some of the other carcinogens in a satisfactory manner. We've made an open statement about the professional environments we've been based on in the proposition. The Institute for Public Health and the Directorate for Social and Health has done a knowledge summary based on the leading international research findings on the question of passive smoking. We've taken that into account in the proposition. But the whole point is that there is only one proposal for smoke-free serving places that provide smoke-free working environments. You can't get around that, either with air curtains or with other curtains.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e509	I think the Minister of Health defends himself in a good and tidy way. He should perhaps have been given the opportunity to defend himself on an ongoing basis after five contributions from the Progress Party in this rowing, but instead I would like to note that SV supports the considerations that have emerged here and that the majority have in terms of the smoking law. What I want to talk about are elements in relation to alcohol legislation. The centre lot and SV are united in a consideration of ringing the wine monopoly. We are concerned in the same way as the National Council of the Abstinence people is, and as many of the organisations in the LO are, with regard to the hearing opinions they have made on the liberalisation and introduction of alcoholic beverages for sale or donation in their own activities. And once again, as with the Minister of Social Affairs, I want to draw up what has happened to the shower, which is now in the shops and is sometimes traded as if it were a regular shower, because the products are being misplaced. I'm not going to hare down on the Christian People's Party and their alcohol policy, because I actually respect it. I have respect for the fact that the party has for a number of years held positions that have meant something about Norwegian alcohol policy. But I want to ask the Council of State, because in normal circumstances I would have believed that the Christian People's Party would have participated in the reasoning of the comments made by SV and the Central Party here: Is the only reason why the Christian People's Party does not choose to do so, that the leaders that Norway is now facing through the EEA Agreement and the decisions taken by ESA are required to pursue a policy in which the Government – at least the Christian People's Party in the Government – really disagree? Or is it that the Christian People's Party does not see the same concerns as the Center Party and SV express in its remark?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e518	Now I'm not the one that's constitutionally responsible for the alcohol law, and I should therefore also limit my answer to these questions to a more general point of view. It will be as follows: It is the Government’s clear objective to contribute to the reduction of alcohol consumption in Norway through the various mechanisms we have for marketing, control of turnover, control of illegal marketing, such as: this second proposition applies and various preventive measures. But we depend, with the international commitments that Norway has undertaken, on doing so within the framework of these commitments. We can equal or not equal the consequences of these obligations, but we can't escape from them. In my view, it would be a good idea to pretend that these obligations are not there if Norway failed to deal with clear obligations arising from the EEA Agreement and the arrangements resulting from the EEA Agreement. At least a responsible government party must be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e525	It is true, as the health minister said, that he is not responsible for the alcohol law, but nevertheless I want to get into the matter of alcohol. First, to the opinion of the party politician and the KrF Dagfinn Højbräten on the general objective of reducing alcohol turnover and alcohol consumption. The Minister of Health believes that, among other things: by increasing the authorisation and the possibility of import, in relation to the fact that places with their own making and sales are also allowed to import? It must at least be the opposite of reducing the alcohol turnover. The concern for the Vinmonopolet and what ESA or competing companies in the alcohol sales are going to do here, we can only have some thoughts about today, but I certainly believe that the majority today are helping to weaken the basis of a monopoly in retail sales. So to the medical and health profession of direct entry for gift points. The Minister of Health is certainly familiar with the report of fellow student Niels Kristian Axelsen, who showed that there is a great deal of difference in this spirit of giving and trading and lawlessness/unlawfulness. But what is certain is that when more players are able to introduce alcohol, there will be even greater reason to control this product in relation to whether it is hazardous to health or contains illegal substances. With the methanol scandal in my fresh memory, I would like to ask the Minister for Health: What is done by the Food Control Agency and health authorities to deploy additional instruments now when there are more actors, more channels and more products?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e536	I understand that it is a point in this debate to ask the Minister of Social Affairs about the responsibility of the Minister of Health and the Minister of Health about the responsibility of the Minister of Social Affairs. What I said about the overall objectives of the alcohol policy, I didn't say that as a party politician, Højbräten, I actually said that as a responsible member of the Government – that's the government's policy. I refer to the Government's action plan on drugs, which actually contains a very broad set of measures to achieve these objectives. But there are instruments within the framework of what we actually have opportunity to do, given our international obligations, which at least we have to deal with. Let me say that with regard to the connection to methanol-containing smuggler liquor that was now drawn up, I think it is very special in this debate – very special. There is one answer to how to avoid obtaining methanol-containing smuggler liquor, and that is to stay away from illegally imported goods. It really shouldn't have anything to do in this debate. But when that's said, it's my opinion that the control bodies we have, not least the police and customs, have actually tackled that challenge in a very offensive way and are doing their part of that job, so that there is a standard set of responses that should prevent us from getting that kind of wave in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e545	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e548	I have found it difficult to find Parliamentary acceptable words in order to express my feelings and opinions about this fundamentalist bill, which, to the degree, affects the freedom of the individual to live in a democratic country. One should preferably not question political motives, but I do in this matter. It is not a consideration of the working environment of the restaurant staff who are the real motivation for this law, but an premature guardianship by the Government, and in particular by the Minister of Health. I understand that every health minister, with respect for himself, would like to get involved in the history of health policy in Norway, but it does not matter how this happens. I personally would like to take part in a positive description of the history of our health minister who is working on cleanliness and action. That's the Minister of Health. For me, it's a big paradox that over 50 pst. by the employees now allegedly to be protected from passive smoking, themselves smoking, and that the same percentage is also contrary to the law. Furthermore, it is also a paradox that employees get smoking rooms at work, while the guests who pay their wages do not get it. Smoking and passive smoking can cause health damage. Passive smoking can be very annoying for people with allergic disorders and uncomfortable for non-smokers. What we eat and drink can also be very dangerous to our health, lack of physical activity as well. It's really dangerous to live. None of us get eternal life, whether we smoke or not. But is life just health? What about the individual's freedom to make independent choices, choices that do not harm others? Isn't that an essential part of our quality of life and well-being? When we see the unworthy conditions in our care for the elderly, for which this government is also responsible, we don't want to get very old. We have had a smoking law for many years that should have been good enough, if the industry itself had taken it seriously and followed up with new technology on the ventilation side, and if the public had followed up their obligation to control. Parts of the industry can thank themselves for the law that is coming. In the short term, the law may, in my view, have the following adverse consequences: bankrupt in the industry and increasing unemployment, a desired unemployment rate that smokers also have to pay for the business of anonymous private clubs will grow up filling and domestic violence will become a consequence of smokers will hardly decrease over time What surprises me most in the present position is that the Right Party, which often calls itself the freedom party of the individual, is in favour of the law. So in position, it seems to be right to throw ideological principles on the boat. This must have consequences for the choice mass. A lot of phones to my office over the last few weeks indicate that. So something positive comes out of the present bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e576	Those who are now given the floor have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e580	All workers with the exception of waiters currently have a legal right to smoke-free work. The big dilemma of the smokers is that their choice, their ‘freedom’ to smoke, limits the same right of non-smokers to their own choice. As fully as it must be a human right to smoke, it must be a human right to avoid being exposed to tobacco smoke from others. I am very concerned that the Progress Party chooses to listen to the National Association of Technical Entrepreneurs, which consists of members living by producing and installing ventilation systems, rather than listening to professionals and countless research reports, both domestic and foreign, which show that smoke destroys people's health and kills people, despite ventilation facilities. Estimates from Ireland and England show that every five pub and nightclub workers will die of heart attack as a result of passive smoking. At the same time, they are particularly exposed to cancer of the cervix, breast cancer, lung cancer and cancer of the urinary bladder. Annually, between 300 and 500 people die from passive smoking in Norway. The figure is higher than the annual number of fatalities in road accidents. Smoke-free serving sites are important for improving the working environment. A U.S. study shows that the health of food service professionals was significantly improved already four weeks after the introduction of smoking bans at catering sites in California. In today’s Norway, 120,000 asthmatics and about 300,000 with lung diseases, COLS, major problems going out to restaurants and smoking sites. Smoke-free serving sites will improve the availability of large sections of the Norwegian population. It's in to go to the cafe. Maybe we should take a little walk? Party smoking in cafes and restaurants today recruits many new smokers. The ban on outdoor smoking will contribute to the reduction of party-related smoking among young people, including long-term smoking. Since 1989, the number of people dying of COLS has increased by 59 pst. The increase among women is on severe 89 pst. Calculations show that these patients have more than 50 pst. more hospitalisation than the rest of the population. In addition, they have more than twice as many sick days. The government and the majority indicate that they take public pleasure seriously. Tobacco’s adverse health effects are so well documented that health authorities would have failed greatly if they had not addressed the problems. Similar bans have been implemented in several states in the United States, Canada and Australia. In the European context, Norway is a leading country in the protection against tobacco damage. We're gonna be proud of that. If we look at Sweden, they have formulated a similar objective. We welcome the Swedes after.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e597	I'm glad that John I. Alvheim himself said that he questioned honest political motives, because that's what he did in his speech when he said that the government had fundamentalist motives behind his proposal. He himself stressed that passive smoking is dangerous. Then it is to me a great paradox that the Party of Advances, which calls itself a Party of Freedom, in the same way as the Right, is unable to see that the concept of freedom has a limit, that is, where freedom goes beyond others, or affects the freedom of others. It should have been such an obvious child lesson from the Youth Course of the Advance Party that it should have been on its back. When one then is surprised that the Right emphasizes the perfectly obvious fact, I would say that it is more surprising that one here occupies this particular feature alone in the Odelsting, without being able to make any better argument than actually producing the political motives of others. So to this so-called paradox that the employees of this industry have smoking rooms, and that the guests are not allowed to have it. I myself have been employed in that industry. I have to say that the big paradox is that in my job today I have the opportunity to choose not to expose myself to passive smoking. Of course, I can go into the smoking room next to the cooking restaurant and expose myself to passive smoking, but I can choose not to. The big paradox is that the Progress Party believes it is absolutely right that my former colleagues should not have that choice. It might say something about the view of employees in this industry – which I do not think is worth it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e604	It was a funny ending from the representative, Höie. The representative Höie doesn't take into account is that the smoking room that he referred to, where he can go in and get a smoke, is said to have to be banned, because it's part of the restaurant. This problem includes, inter alia: Hoie claims, that the smoking room has to be removed according to the law that's here, because it's part of a serving room. The employees actually have to go through it when they're going to clean up. In fact, it has to be said to be forbidden under the new law. It's going to be interesting to see if the Storting will now impose rules other than that on others. The reason I took the floor was that Knut Storberget's representative asked me a few questions. What we're responding to is the possibility of imposing periodic penalty payments. Firstly, we believe that according to today's legislation we have the opportunities to do so. You can report restaurants that break the prohibition contained in the law, and in this way use the services that have the possibility to do so. to make a fine. What the proposition adds up to is, for example, that the Social and Health Directorate is given the opportunity to impose periodic penalty payments, even if there is also an opportunity to appeal the decision to the Market Council. The part that we've reacted to is the principle of this. We believe that we already have sufficient legislation on the follow-up to the smoking ban. When the police, as stated in the proposition, have not followed up these matters in a good enough way, I think the department can actually give its instructions to the police as to whether they should follow up the individual criminal cases, if you think this is as big a problem as it seems to the representative of Storberget. As far as the Minister of Social Affairs is concerned, she was able to say that the Advance Party is trying to imagine to the Norwegian people that smoking is healthy. No, if you've been involved, and if you've been involved in the debate, you know we're not. I have actually stopped smoking because I know it is harmful, and that is also why I want as much as possible to stop smoking and to start smoking as little as possible. But for those who are signed, there is also a bit of freedom for the individual in principle – at least as long as we can have ventilation systems and devices that make the indoor air of such a nature that it is not the adverse effects that it is claimed to be. Then I think I've caught up with the questions that were asked. In conclusion, yes, I hope the representative of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen is right that restaurants and bars will not go bankrupt as a result of the law. Unfortunately, I fear the opposite and also refer to information from Australia, among other things. a number of bingo halls were closed or went bankrupt as a result of a ban on smoking. But I hope the representative of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen gets right – unfortunately something just history will show. With regard to the fact that the Youth Course of the Advance Party should have been held, whether it be by smoking, it is interesting that the Young Right does not actually support the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e621	The representative Alvheim is questioning my motives when I say that the consideration of the employees is a very important argument for this proposal. I'll take note of that. But I have actually sat face to face with representatives from the Association of Hotel and Restaurant Workers, and they have asked me the following question: Do you have a single good argument that our profession should not be entitled to a smoke-free working environment, which all other professional groups have, when our profession is actually one of the highest incidences of cancer? I have found no such argument, and I have not heard any such argument in this debate. That is the basis for me today to comply with a health and safety requirement from the trade union movement, with the LO and the Hotel and Restaurant workers' association at the head. They say this is the most important improvement in the working environment they've ever had. Then the Progress Party talks about the freedom of the individual. And there are important liberal ideas that I think are very many in this room share. But the liberal ideas also have a very important value: the limit of freedom. Passive smoking and the fight against passive smoking are about freedom – yes, as long as you do not harm others. This is about restricting freedom, because it does damage to others. So the representative Alvheim says it's dangerous to live. But we're talking here about a legal product, which, if used properly over a long enough period of time, will kill half of its consumers. Tobacco is without comparison the individual product that is most dangerous to health, and if we had previously known about the adverse effects of using tobacco, it would probably never have been legalized. It's the only product you get sick and die of if you use it as prescribed. I do not believe that we can seriously compare the health damage caused by tobacco smoke with, for example. traffic pollution. Comparative measurements of the total air content of particles have shown that the particle content of a restaurant environment is about 11 times higher than that of a heavily trafficked street. This is about taking the consequences of knowledge about health consequences. There's hardly any area where we know so much about the consequences, and where we can do something that has so much significant effect with so far simple handles. Then I think it's a health policy duty to act, and I'm very grateful that such a large majority in the United Kingdom ends up with this important and historic resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e634	Drawing motives in doubt: Yes, I do, in fact, with full consideration, and I mean to have good reason to do so. I said in my speech that the freedom of the individual goes so far as to avoid harming other people. And we sincerely believe that technical solutions can be found to the problem we are discussing here. Then I would like to challenge the Minister of Health on something that the representative Bastesen brought up. This concerns our home care staff, who must also have a smoke-free environment according to this case. Should it be possible for help workers in the home and home care services to refuse to provide services to patients around the homes who smoke? Is that gonna be a consequence? I would like a clear and unambiguous answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e641	Harald T. Nesvik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e644	I just forgot to say in my post that we will support the proposal of the Central Party, which is being evaluated after three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e649	The representative Alvheim makes a point that the Progress Party is actually committed to limiting the freedom not to harm others. That's a starting point I share. But then I can't stick with him when he points out in the next round that this is going to happen using different technical solutions. For 15 years we have had a tobacco-injury law prohibiting smoking in public places. The progress party fought against it with beaks and claws and used the characteristics I have previously referred to. Now that's the law they're fighting for. Over the 15 years, we have lived with the exception of restaurants and patios. We have lived with intermediate solutions on the division of premises into smoke-free zones and smoking zones, and we have lived with ventilation as a solution, and with ventilation requirements in recent years. The point is, we've learned that it doesn't work. So the alternative of the Advance Party has been tried, and the majority rejects it. So the question of smoking in private homes. Both the representative Bastesen and the representative Alvheim made a mistake here by suggesting that the smoking law applies in private homes. It does not apply in private homes. There is nothing in the decision that Odelstinget is going to take today that influences the legal situation in relation to workers working in the care service. On the other hand, the Working Environment Act applies to those who are the same as to everyone else. In this context, it is clear that for workers who fall ill with smoke, employers should provide facilities to avoid, as far as possible, working in smoke-filled working environments. In my opinion, it is a general consideration in relation to the sick and nursing old that they receive the treatment, the help and care they require. There is an obligation for the municipality to facilitate. I believe that it must be possible to find practical solutions in order to comply with the employment environment law for employees, but also to ensure the overall consideration that they need the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e661	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e669	The odelsting should then go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e676	In the course of the debate, five proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party proposals No. 2-4, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 5, from Ola D. Incense on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 5, from the Center Party, it's like: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government that Law No. 9 March 1973 No. 14 on protection against tobacco damage and in particular Section 6 of the Act will be evaluated no later than three years after the amendments to Section 6 enter into force.» [[Tobacco Damage Act]] This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e743	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No. 2 June 1989 No. 27 on the marketing of alcoholic beverages, etc. Paragraphs 1 to 7a shall be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e816	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e870	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No. 2 June 1989 No. 27 on the marketing of alcoholic beverages, etc. The following shall be amended as follows:Section 4-1, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:Only alcoholic beverages supplied by a person who has a manufacturing, wholesale or sales authorisation, unless it is possible to make his own made drink based on § 4-2, third paragraph.§ 4-2, new third paragraph, shall be replaced by:The authorization may be extended to the manufacture of beer and wine which have not been fortified with alcohol, for the purpose of making a donation in his own establishment. The provisions of Chapters 1 and 4 of the Law shall apply as far as they apply.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e917	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 4 to 5 new second sentence shall be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e998	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e1010	We've come to II. The President will first vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Ot.prp. No 23 not accepted.’ [[2002-2003]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e1027	I voted incorrectly, I should have voted in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e1034	The proposals of the Progress Party are therefore 62 to 13 votes not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e1077	There is an alternative, subsidiary proposal, No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In Law No. 9 March 1973 No. 14 on protection against tobacco damage, the second paragraph of Section 6 is replaced by the following:If, within an area, there are several premises having the same purpose, smoking may be permitted for up to half of these. Smoke-free rooms must not be less or less standard-compliant than premises where smoking is permitted. Smoking may not be allowed in serving places. This does not apply to separate smoking rooms for employees or guests. Where food and/or drink are served, and where the conditions allow for on-site digestion are used, the place shall mean the place where the food and/or drink is served.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e1132	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e1159	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President has understood that the Progress Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-04-08-lower.ana.ud760e1173	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
