ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e45	The called representative of the state of Troms, Leif Christian Johansen, is proposed to be elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Ivar Østberg. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Harald Espelund For the province of Hordaland: Ragna Flotve For the Rogaland County: Inger Lise Aarrestad For Troms County: Leif Christian Johansen For Vestfold County: Marie Kürstein The representative Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e75	On behalf of Mr Haga and myself, on behalf of the representative of Mr Haga, I shall make proposals for changes to the foreign legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e80	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 3 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e119	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be held over one day, with a total speaking time of 4 hours and 5 minutes, excluding lines and three-minute posts, and that the speaking time be allocated to the political groups: the working party 65 minutes, right 55 minutes, the party 35 minutes, the Socialist Left 35 minutes, the Christian People's Party 30 minutes, the Central Party 15 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and the Coastal Party 5 minutes. In addition, the representative Simonsen shall be given a speaking time of 5 minutes. It is proposed that there should be five lines in reply to the speeches by the main speakers of the political groups, the parliamentary leaders, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and three lines in response to speakers with 10 minutes of speaking time or more, as well as to the speeches by other government councils, within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e128	Exactly a year ago, the financial debate focused on the subsidiary budgetary settlement reached between the government parties and the Progress Party. Jan Tore Sanner then said the following: ‘Let me first commend the Progress Party because the party would be involved and take responsibility for the budget.... We are now getting a tight budget... that will be involved and create new growth and development by focusing more on higher education, more on research and development, and by reducing taxes.’ Ingredient Sørfonn said this: ‘First, there is reason to pay tribute to the Progress Party, which, on the upside, took responsibility and contributed to a multi-annual budget solution and accepted its framework and rigour in the budget.’ Cosy words at that time, which also showed that the Progress Party neither at that time nor in the autumn in any way demanded in budgetary negotiations to spend more oil money in order to arrive at a budgetary union. I have therefore been surprised to hear Oddvard Nilsen and other members of the government parties say that a budgetary agreement with the Progress Party had led to an increase in the use of oil money, and that a budget agreement with the Progress Party this year had been worse for the Norwegian economy. Last year it was very responsible of the Government to enter into a budgetary settlement with the Progress Party, according to the same speakers. The government's lack of willingness to clarify its basis in the Storting has marked the budgetary procedure with a political danger. «Almost as the bee has the government's parties lashed around from the party to the party in the hope that pollination would produce results somewhere." This is a quote from the last year's financial debate, and the one who said it was Hill-Marta Solberg, on behalf of the Workers' Party. There is a truth that also applies to the budget negotiations for the harvest. It's not who you cooperate with, which means something, just that you cooperate, and retain government power, for the government parties, and let go of government, for the Workers' Party. So far, several commentators have applauded the budget agreement, not because of its content, but simply because it was agreed. It's the content that, after all, matters, and most people will notice next year. People will notice that the Workers' Party and the Government's parties seem to be completely unprepared for a possible new power crisis, and thus have not proposed any special measures to prevent many people from coming into economic difficulties this winter. And since the budget is adopted tonight, with the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the votes of the Left, the same parties must bear responsibility even after the New Year's celebration. Hill-Marta Solberg said several things on behalf of the Workers' Party last year: ‘We have just received a presentation of what can be called a subsidiary economic policy. But I believe that in line with what the representative Jensen recently said, the Progress Party must also act as follows: there is no subsidiary reality. There's only one reality. That reality is affected by what is adopted tonight in this Chamber, where the government parties and the Progress Party vote together for the State budget.’ I agree that there is only one reality, but that reality must also be dealt with by the Workers' Party. This year, the Labour Party is in two realities: its primary budgetary option and its subsidiary. But it is the subsidiary that becomes reality, because the Workers' Party is voting for it. Jens Stoltenberg has previously said that the Workers' Party is a supporter of firm consequence and governments that have a clear majority behind them in the Stortinget. And it contributes to tonight's Workers' Party when they vote for the 2004 state budget. That reality involves, among other things: that a number of unsocial cuts become reality. Although many of the changes negotiated in the budget are necessary improvements to the original government, it is far from sufficient to correct the social profile, improve the basis for increased employment or solve the challenges for all hospitals in the country. The budget adopted tonight, with the votes of the Labour Party and the Government parties, will increase the proportion of sick people in excess of their share and will, of course, affect those who have difficulties in the past. The budget will lead to a tightening of the rules on leave in spite of a consistent demand from both professional and competitive industries. The input-based funding of hospitals is reduced from 60 pst. to 40 pst. And the defense's investment framework is being cut further. The budget is almost chemically free of tax relief. The working party has tried many times to create the impression that there has to be a choice between tax relief and well-being. It's wrong. And back to a possible power crisis: think so much more practical it would have been to admit people a relief in the electricity charge and the VAT. But according to the Workers' Party, it is terriblely unsocial. I am also very surprised at several of the so-called containment proposals that have been agreed upon. The income is 500 million. NOK by selling State property and SEK 700 million. kr by increasing the dividend. In other words, the state spends another DKK 1.2 billion on its capital. And that's nothing but an indirect way to spend oil money. In the Labour Party, too, the wealth of the country is often used to cover current operating costs. Many of the recovery proposals, nearly DKK 1 billion, consist of shifting expenditure to later budget mines. So it's not real redisposables or real cuts that cover the increased, permanent costs. You're just postponing it for another time, i.e. a new budgetary procedure. When, after the budget agreement, Stoltenberg said that this is an agreement on the budget, neither more nor less, one could get the impression that the Workers' Party is only agreeing to any minor matter today. But this is the state budget for the next year we are talking about, which, of course, should mean taking Stoltenberg's previous opinions seriously, that they will not propose changes of a budgetary nature throughout 2004. This means that the Workers’ Party cannot complain about high market shares in the new year or high electricity prices or of poor conditions for the unemployed or too few labour market measures, because they themselves have been in favour of the excesses, for the taxes, for the taxes and for the conditions that are now to be enjoyed by the unemployed throughout 2004. In its alternative budget, the Progress Party has focused on stimulating increased economic growth in Norway. It means better opportunities for more jobs and better organisation of innovation and production. We propose lower taxes, an effort for a more productive public and sheltered sector, an education policy that will provide us with an internationally competitive system and a research policy that creates prerequisites for new value creation. We propose an infrastructure policy that ensures better roads and electronic infrastructure, which businesses need, an energy policy that ensures stable and ample access to power at competitive prices and a labour market policy that focuses on local settlements that ensure flexibility and migration. In the Advance Party's alternative budget, the government's expenditure is cut by DKK 13 billion, as well as redistributing NOK 15 billion to improve the health care, the justice sector and the defence. Our budget option removes the aggravation of excesses, improves the social profile, improves the overall economy of the healthcare system and facilitates increased patient treatment. Our budget strengthens the police's ability to combat crime and thus increase the security of people in everyday life. And we safeguard Norway's defence interests. But at the same time, we are reducing the total tax burden by 18 billion kroner. It has a beneficial effect on the economy because it becomes more profitable to work, more profitable to invest, more profitable to save, which in turn will improve the basis for growth in gross domestic product. Goods and services are cheaper as a result of tax relief, border trade is reduced as a result of tax relief and will contribute to more jobs in Norway, less smuggling and less illegal activities. It is crazy to talk about combating unemployment and at the same time help to strengthen the problems, among other things. for Norwegian brewing through excessive fees. In recent days, several members of the Government have raised doubts about the Government's ability and willingness to implement the promised tax bill from the Sem Declaration. Bondevik said a week ago in this hall: ‘It will be difficult to achieve the rest of the Sem-talled objectives also on the tax side...’ At the same time, there are major changes in our neighbouring country, Finland. Finnish Prime Minister Vanhanen says that tax relief does not mean that taxes need to be increased in other areas or that Finnish welfare needs to be weakened. He refers to a sharp reduction in car taxes in Finland, which in turn led to strong growth in new car sales, so that tax revenues were higher even if taxes were lowered. A very profitable tax haven, the Finnish Prime Minister calls this. He also says that the Finnish authorities now hope that the proposed tax relief will contribute to increased tax revenue for the Finnish State, but that it will take time before that result comes, and that in the short term you will see a fall in income. So the Finnish authorities live well because they think in the long term. And it's not the Progress Party that rules in Finland, it's social democrats. The Finnish Prime Minister further says that the purpose of tax relief is to bring new growth to the Finnish economy. We need these tax breaks to create something new. If we don't do anything and are afraid of change, we get no growth, he says. And I fully agree with that. It is therefore sad to record that the Right in Government has now gone wild in relation to tax relief. The consequences of the budgetary agreement are that the extremely modest tax reliefs proposed by the Government are now gone. The defense is from the Right that at least there will be no tax tightening. Yes, it's a very lean consolation, to say it carefully. The fact that the Progress Party now stands alone in the Storting to believe that tax relief improves economic growth, and thus the future income of the state, is sin, but true. The irresponsible are thus not the Progress Party. We think differently, but no more so than that there are valid and effective policies in many other countries. Today’s political debate is largely linked to the extent to which oil money is well spent in the short term, and budgetary discussions quickly end up focusing on short-term issues rather than on long-term growth policies. But it is the growth capacity of the economy that is crucial for the development of our common well-being. The recipe of the Progress Party is a strong change in financial and industrial policy. And so this is called irresponsible. But what's so irresponsible about thinking in the long term, by giving business and ordinary people a real boost through significant tax relief? Why is it irresponsible to treat state-owned road investments as it is: an investment in future value creation? The government and the Workers' Party consider this to be expenditure, which therefore has to be paid in kroner to keep the budget tight. An investment today generates increased revenue tomorrow. But you don't want that long-term, and you end up calling the Progress Party irresponsible, because then the debate becomes less dangerous. I will address the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting alone or with others in the financial position. But I also have to refer to an error in the printed setting. In the printed setting, there is no compliance with the setting set out for Chapter 15, which concerns the Committee's recommendation, C. Box 23, Taxes and charges, III, Fees etc. to the population back in 2004. The clarification at the end of Section 1(j) of this Decision that the letter relates to enterprises in the listed classes of activities, ‘where the activity is limited to products not covered by the EEA Agreement’ applies to all the listed classes of activities and not only to the last listed classification of activities. I ask that the proposal for a decision on the fixing of fees etc. the 2004 census is amended accordingly. – Now I expect that it became clear to Stortinget what we were about to change. I just want to conclude by saying that this autumn has been interesting in many ways. There has been a lot of discussion, a lot of debate, about whether the treatment of the state budget is games or not games. I have seen some quotations from the Right-leader, Jan Petersen, in the newspaper, where it appears that the Progress Party is now apparently going to feel bad, and especially I, for not having been allowed to run in and out of doors and look angry throughout the harvest. I can assure you that it was much more comfortable to conduct budget negotiations behind closed doors, as we did last year. That was also one of the reasons why you quickly came to a good result, simply to keep calm. I think that there is a responsibility on all parties in Stortinget to contribute to the calmness of the state budget, to the calmness of the state budget negotiations. Nevertheless, this is a policy issue. These are priorities for all budget chapters that will affect the entire economy of the country for a whole year to come. So it's not something you should do with an unprepared mind. There is also nothing you should do within a few hours behind closed doors. This is a process that should take the time it takes, simply because those who are to enter into a possible consensus will be responsible for it throughout the coming financial year. I understand that it is demanding to come to an agreement for a minority government. But what should have been an advantage was whether a minority government had clarified – to a much greater extent than the sitting - its relationship with the Stortinget, and to a much greater extent had held a tougher course in its political function than what we now see, where one finds it more appropriate to jump from bed to bed – if I can say so – instead of being concerned about the political course and direction of policy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e195	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestions she made. The President will express some doubts as to whether the characteristic ‘spray’ should be incorporated into regular parliamentary vocabulary, but would, for his part, feel that the word composition ‘spray’ in particular belongs to the wrong side of the line. It's going to be line change. The President reminds us that the time frame for a line change is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e202	The installation to Siv Jensen requires that it is clearly drawerd. But I would venture to make the claim that it is good that the Progress Party did not come to a budgetary settlement with the government party. Then the right turn would go from bad to worse. The government would be supported for more temporary additions, a tightening of the AFP scheme, and Erna Solberg would be able to enjoy support when it comes to tightening up municipal incomes for school and care for the elderly. The party of progress will give large tax credits. But at the same time they cut off the daily allowance and the waiting wage for the unemployed, and in Aetat, who will get people out to work. Does not the Progress Party show that they are in fact miles away from a policy that attracts wage earners and workers in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e209	I'm not sure if I understood that question. After all, it is not the case that taxpayers are primarily in receipt of their gross wages and salaries. I believe that the regular taxpayer in this country is primarily concerned about what is left of it after the state and the municipality have taken their place in various taxes and taxes. What had actually been an advantage for many workers in the country, not least those employed in the competitive industry, was that the State actively entered into the wage negotiations and offered tax reliefs, both because it had led to a growth in the real wage development of employees and because it had not increased the burden on competitive business compared to increased wage costs. It would have been responsible at a time when we are busy keeping the cost development of many of our businesses down. But it's a strange way of thinking in the Workers' Party, and I think that's very bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e214	It seems that there may be a need to remind the representative Jensen that it was the Progress Party that broke the budgetary negotiations with the government parties, and that the Progress Party in this way chose not to have any influence. It also seems that the representative Jensen is disappointed that they were not allowed to drive their game completely into the finance debate. Last weekend, Carl I. Hagen gave an interesting insight into the way the Progress Party operates politics. He said, according to the Newspaper: ‘In opposition, you may complain and criticise, and you may use the same money several times.’ This can only mean that the Progress Party has not really intended to get through to the proposals they are promoting. My question to the representative Jensen is about the insight that Carl I. Hagen has given us, actually means that any play from the Progress Party is a planned breach of promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e226	It is absolutely right that we broke the budget negotiations, but it was primarily for the sake of time – and the process – that we had at our disposal in the budget debate. So we didn't see it as realistic or likely to come to an agreement. Jan Tore Sanner himself said many times that we had shorter time to carry out the budget negotiations in the autumn. Then I believe it was the responsibility and correctness of the Progress Party – instead of keeping it going for several days and yet not being able to reach an agreement – when we saw what action room the government parties had to go on, because it was little. Then it was much more right of us to say that we don't think we can do this, so that the government parties had the opportunity to move forward on their free trade and perhaps be able to get a consensus. It's not that any play from the Progress Party is a planned breach of promise. On the contrary. During this weekend, the Progress Party has had a rapporteur conference – and many of our politicians around the whole country are in responsible positions and are committed to safeguarding the interests of both the Progress Party and the budgetary framework of the Municipality of Norway. And it should just be missing -- as much there as in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e233	The Progress Party's alternative budget introduces a festive term called 'environmental integrity'. It is a name for those parties which are not in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party on several high pipes and thicker smoke in the country of origin. We are well aware that the economy does not restrict the budget of the Progress Party. It's obvious that ecology doesn't do it either. There is increasingly cheaper energy, regardless of its source, cheaper petrol, as much oil as possible in the shortest possible time and cut railway and collective bets that apply. I assume that Siv Jensen will agree with me that the arrangement of the Progress Party had been completed, it would have brought us beyond any possibility of meeting Norway's climate objectives. As a representative of a particularly environmentally friendly party, it is natural for me to ask whether the budget of the Progress Party has been made on the basis that the greenhouse effect is something that environmentally sound nuances in the Intergovernmental Panel have found.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e240	It is a challenge for Norwegian industry when a majority of politicians in the UK adopt stricter environmental rules in Norway, for Norwegian authorities, than is the case for many competing companies in neighbouring countries. The Party for Progress is committed to ensuring the environment in a good way. But we have to do it in such a way that we do not simultaneously destroy the growth base of our own business. We as a nation depend entirely on having a growing and growing business, and we cannot put our own competitive business in a situation where it loses competitiveness and risks having to close down because environmental criteria are stricter than in other countries. It is not just Norway that has understood the value of having strict environmental rules. I believe that the environment is on the agenda in a very large number of countries, and that there is a broad consensus on what kind of environmental criteria should be in place in industry, in business and in general for the individual citizen. This does not mean that Norway has to adopt environmental criteria so stringent in areas by region that we hit our own business. That's the environmental propensity we're talking about. That's what the Progress Party wants to work against, precisely because we are primarily concerned with getting growth not least in our own energy industry. It's quite absurd when you choose to stick your head in the sand for the fact that Norwegian power is some of the purest you have in the world. If we had arranged the conditions for developing this in a better way, whether it's gas, water or other resources, yes, it would collectively contribute to a more environmentally friendly energy balance in Scandinavia than the one we get with the majority's policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e249	Assistance is one of the areas where there is a huge difference between the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party's policy. The draft budget strengthens the efforts of the poorest of the poor, and this effort has been targeted, among other things. a strong commitment to UNICEF’s educational programme, especially for girls. It is still the case that 123 million children lack basic education, and most of these are girls. The aid budget also means strengthening efforts for better and more affordable treatment for HIV infection and AIDS. The progress team will cut between $6 billion and $7 billion in assistance, and they will justify this because government u-help is less efficient and costly to administer. My questions are then: Does the Advance Party not see that help from outside is necessary for those who have the worst to have the opportunity to come out of a hopeless hegemony? And has the Progress Party not recorded that under Norwegian aid policy, the tree is democracy building, good governance and the fight against corruption?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e259	The area of assistance is one of the areas in which the Christian People's Party has really come into effect in the Government. The right was, after all, before they came into government, much on the way to agree with the Progress Party on the need to cut the aid budget, simply because a significant proportion of what is currently being provided in support by the Norwegian authorities never comes to the recipient. The Progress Party agrees with the need to provide assistance in some areas, in particular for emergency and disaster relief. So that doesn't mean we cut across all aid from the state budget, on the contrary. However, we believe that part of what is currently provided by the Norwegian authorities is not well arranged, and unfortunately it is not used in such a way that it benefits those who really need it. The critical review should also be in the interest of the Christian People's Party to take – not just to talk unilaterally about the need to add, but actually to take a critical review of what the money is spent on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e266	The financial committee has lost more and more than NOK 147 000 in the autumn. EUR 30 billion has been estimated by the Land Association of the Process Industries that the high krone price has cost exporters after the conversion of interest rates policy in 2001. The Progress Party was alone in demanding inflationary interest rate policies, which are the main cause of these losses, until the Workers' Party decided to change its mind. When business problems appeared in 2002, with a record of flagging out, dismissals and closures, the Senterpartie proposed that Norway’s Bank should change its course, placing more emphasis on stable business conditions. On the contrary, the Progress Party would focus more on low price increases and on a more independent central bank. Our proposal was rejected, and the problems continued to increase. We are probably talking here about the biggest political win of the Progress Party, about interest rate policy. Nevertheless, the Progress Party is talking very little about it. Does this mean that the Progress Party has also realized that today's interest rate policy is a disadvantage for Norwegian jobs but for international currency speculators?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e273	Now I think the representative Lund is speaking against better knowledge, because there's no empirical evidence that there's any clear correlation between the dollar rate and interest rate development. It's actually also true that if he has a certain amount of memory in relation to what has happened to Norwegian monetary policy developments in recent years, he will also remember that under another monetary policy regime, namely, where one was more concerned with stabilising the dollar rate in relation to other currencies, the opposite problem with respect to interest rate developments. So it's not like there's a quick fix, like Morten Lund. The Progress Party believes that the monetary policy regime we have today is the best we can have. We have been a keen driver and a supporter of the monetary policy regime, and we have been very supportive of it ever since it was introduced in spring 2001. So the interest rate and the interest rate have been high, but it's stabilized. It has to be remembered that there are many reasons why the krone price has had the development it has had. And I think it's a little too easy to blame the monetary regime unilaterally. Morten Lund doesn't know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e280	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e283	The 2004 government budget agreement between the Workers' Party and the government parties is good for the country and for the reputation of the policy. The agreement came about after a clean process between us and the government parties. We avoided games and speculation in Stortinget. We have maintained the budgetary framework proposed by the Government. We don't spend any more oil money on interest rates, exchange rates, the competitiveness of industry and future pensions. The Labour Party still believes that there is a lot that is not good in the budget that is being adopted today. The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party, Jon Lilletun, said on that day that a good budget has become even better. I believe that a poor budget has improved somewhat. The Labour Party will vote in a subsidiary way for the budgetary agreement. We will vote primarily for the Workers' Party's alternative budget, because we believe that this is the best thing for the country and for the population. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we propose to spend over DKK 10 billion more on work, employment, school, care for the elderly, hospitals and a lower self-interest than the Government in its arrangement. The Workers' Party also has proposals for increased loan frameworks to the House Bank, for school buildings and for the establishment of a gas infrastructure company. We oppose the Government's proposal for a general system of VAT compensation to the local government sector. In a situation of high unemployment, the Labour Party believes that the most important task is to ensure that everyone who wants to do so is offered work. The Labour Party proposes to spend almost DKK 5 billion more than the Government to reduce unemployment and increase employment. The working party will spend more than DKK 1 billion on actions to create new – and secure existing – jobs through increased investment in innovation and innovation in many industries, including: through SND. The Labour Party will spend SEK 2.7 billion on active labour market policies. We want to double the number of labour market measures, from 12,000 places to 24,000 places. We also propose to reverse the government's cut-off in the day-to-day arrangements for the unemployed. We say no to the Government's tightening-up of the permit scheme. The working party will spend about DKK 1 billion on roads, public transport and rail. Very many municipalities have a difficult financial situation. The Labour Party considers it imperative to strengthen the local economy in order to avoid cuts in important welfare services such as care and school care and the school leisure system. The Workers' Party proposes in its alternative budget to increase the free revenues of municipalities by a total of approximately DKK 3.5 billion in addition to the Government's proposals. Of these, the Labour Party proposes to spend a few hundred million dollars to extend teaching time in primary school by three hours per year. week from the autumn of 2004. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party proposes that an additional DKK 1 billion be allocated to health businesses in 2004 to strengthen hospital provision. More money is needed to improve patient care and the economy of hospitals. The Workers' Party is moving in its alternative budget towards the Government's proposal to raise the expenditure ceiling in the people's rights card scheme from NOK 1 350 to NOK 2 500. An increase of over $1,000 would be dramatic. The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties leads to an impact that the next year will be spent DKK 5 billion more on employment, school, care for the elderly and health than the government originally proposed. In other words, we have had an impact on about half of our money requirements and on part of our structural requirements. In negotiations you have to give and take. Of course, you don't get through everything. There are now more than 110,000 people without ordinary work. Work until all are jobs. 1 for the Workers' Party. In the budget agreement, about DKK 1.5 billion is spent on an employment package to get more people to work. The budgetary agreement includes, inter alia, the following: 6 000 more labour market measures, increased appropriations for SND, strengthening the net pay system for seafarers and more money for research, development and transport. In addition, the Workers' Party has stopped the Government's proposal to liberalise the Act on temporary employment. There is no need for more uncertainty and insecurity in the labour market. The Workers' Party has stopped the proposal to tighten up the AFP scheme. We have also stopped the proposal to weaken the rules on permitting. Workers must be able to remain on leave for 42 weeks if necessary. The Workers' Party has been given an advantage to extend the Husbank's loan framework by NOK 1 billion and to extend the loan framework for refurbishment of school buildings by NOK 1 billion. This will provide more housing, better school buildings and more jobs in the construction industry. The Labour Party has achieved more than a doubling in the increase in the free income of municipalities for the next year. The municipal sector will receive about DKK 2.2 billion more in free income as a result of the budgetary agreement. I think many of the country's citizens – and local politicians – are pleased with this addition. I hope that this addition has helped to stop the closures of, among other things. nursing homes and schools. I'm glad that the Workers' Party has been able to get a pass to expand the hours in primary school. From the autumn of 2004, there shall be two more hours of instruction per year. week 1st class and 1 hour more instruction per day. weeks from 2 to 4. class. This is the first step towards an extended school day for the children. In the long term, there will be more and better education in the important schools of Norwegian, math and English, as well as gymnastics and homework. The Workers' Party has also helped the Government to grant more to the hospitals and a lower self-employment. Hospitals will get half a billion more to next year. This increase could increase patient treatment and improve the economy of hospitals during the important transition phase they are currently undergoing. But I remind you that the Labour Party in its alternative budget proposes that this be doubled next year. The government proposed to increase the self-interest in the free card scheme by over NOK 1000, from NOK 1 350 to NOK 2500. Fortunately, the Workers' Party has been reduced in proportion to the proposal of NOK 1550 for 2004. In order to make room for a bet of 5 billion dollars, it is of course necessary to find a deposit. It's not all containment proposals that are equally popular. The Labour Party is in favour of the cuts, but we will vote in a subsidiary way for the containment as well. In our alternative budget, we have an invasion that we think is better. The Labour Party disagrees with the policy pursued by the Bondevik Government. But in politics and in society, there are results that count. That is why I am pleased that the Labour Party has managed to stop some of the right turn through this budgetary agreement. It is good that we have helped to strengthen efforts for increased employment and for the unemployed, as well as for the better finances of municipalities and hospitals. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the other members of the Financial Committee for patience and understanding while four of the parties negotiated the budget. The chairperson of the Committee also deserves commendation for his exemplary work on the financial situation. I refer to the Labour Party's proposals and the proposals that we share with other parties in the two positions before us for consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e327	The representative Tore Nordtun has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e332	The representative of Nordtun was not so much concerned with the historically large tax austere workers' party added to its alternative budget. I get that. Fortunately, the budgetary conciliation stopped them. In particular, the Labour Party voters should be pleased that the batch was not passed through, for example. in order to lower the peak tax entry point, so that 120000 persons had received a higher tax to the next year. It would almost be thought that the Workers' Party had forgotten that they promised, through the so-called security of the voters in front of the last election, not to increase the taxes of the many who pay top taxes. My question to Tore Nordtun is whether he is as satisfied as we can assume that his voters are, that the government parties have made sure that this part of the Workers' Party's securities are met.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e345	It's true, as Heidi Larssen says, we had a number of tax proposals in our budget. Most of the proposals are largely the sealing of obvious tax gaps. We are pleased that in the negotiations with the government parties we have had an impact on, among other things, making adjustments to the sharing model, as most experts say, has been ‘completely on the move’ with the tax reliefs that have been there. The Right too has thus been involved and contributed to this. If we look at the level of taxation in Norway, compared with the level in the Scandinavian countries and countries elsewhere in Europe, it is in the middle of the tree. Norway is neither a tax haven nor among the storks of the class. We have to do the tax operations that are necessary. The tax operations we have proposed are necessary in relation to the allocation and priority we have made in our budget. It was not difficult to make that choice in relation to tax relief and employment problems. In terms of the peak tax rate point, we keep the guarantees we have given, with a relative price adjustment over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e354	The representative, Nordtun, said that he was particularly satisfied with the budget agreement with the government party, and also said that the Labour Party is in the hands of the cutters who are doing. He founded this on the fact that it was necessary to stop something of the right turn that the ordinary budget provided. I've seen two of the cuts that the Workers' Party has been negotiating, which are necessary to stop something of this right turn. The one thing is in the way of maintaining the seals, which the Labour Party has reduced by 2.8 million. kr. The second is in the energy research run, which the Labour Party has managed to reduce by 6 million. kr. The progress game is taking a lot of distance from these cuts. We thought both of these areas were important. I have the following questions for the representative Nordtun: Is the Labour Party satisfied that they have managed to negotiate the way forward for the maintenance of the seals and for energy research?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e363	Tore Nordtun – to sail!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e366	It is good that the representative Hageseter is not on the rotur, but on the sails! With regard to the maintenance of the sails, there is less cut, but there is also a shift in investment on the maintenance side that you can live with. At least that's what you've been saying. But all cut pain – including this. What was important to us when we entered into a budget agreement was that it did not get the profile it did last year, when the Progress Party negotiated a budget agreement – where the implementation of abstinences on blue prescriptions for disabled people and several pensioners were removed, where the removal of holiday money for the unemployed was sanctioned, where computer equipment for the disabled became more expensive, where the burial aid was removed, etc. That was the deal that time. Then it was also cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e376	It was interesting to hear the representative Nordtun boasting of the agreement that he has actually been in, so to conclude that a poor budget had done something better. So, it was kind of hard to know what direction Mr. Nordtun really wanted to go. This is a bad budget. It's a bad budgetary settlement because it's modest. What remains here is made-up Right-policy, for this is a Right-budget – which the Labour Party has managed to do better. That's what they're supposed to be for. But at the same time it is approx. $1.5 billion in unsocial cuts. That's still 600 million. kr in increased accumulators. 2 billion kroner to municipalities are exactly the same amount that municipalities have lost in tax revenue – just to mention something. My point is not to slaughter the reconciliation, because it goes in the right direction. What's interesting is, what about the rest of the year? Has the Labour Party now committed itself to the Government in relation to all expenditure increases throughout the year, including in the revised budget? Is this agreement to understand that the Workers' Party is bound to the Government in relation to cost increases, so that they cannot participate in different policy initiatives to make the budget a little better? That is my challenge to the Nordtun representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e385	I have to say that the last few weeks before we started proper negotiations, SV was extremely willing to negotiate and – I kept saying – was a negotiator. It seemed in the press that they were willing to accept anything, only they could get into that section of the track and start negotiating. But now leave it. What was most important to us was to get in and take action, important steps, within employment and within the labour market, and get most of the unsocial cuts away. We're proud of that. We are proud that we have been able to drive back the AFP system, that we have been able to drive back the permit law. This with temporary employment, etc. was so important to us that we could not sit still and see that it was turned even more in the right direction. That's why we were willing to swallow some of the cuts that have also hurt us. But it was that profile that was important, and we're on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e392	I want to start by giving tribute to the Labour Party, which has shown responsibility and contributed to a clean budgetary settlement. This shows that it is possible to cooperate on practical and sensible solutions without wiping out political or ideological dividing lines. In his speech, Mr Nordtun spoke a lot about many good things in the Workers' Party's alternative budget. But what about the containment? My question is related to the inclusion in the Workers' Party's alternative budget. They propose, among other things: to remove the entire cash support from 1 January of the coming year. In practice, this means that a number of families with children will lose tens of thousands of dollars per night. Does the Labour Party, as a responsible party, really think that this was a defence? Was the Labour Party really fully committed to losing a substantial part of the income of a strained family budget from the first year?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e401	For the Christian People's Party and also for other parties, it is well known what the Workers' Party's position regarding the cash support has been since it came to the table: we are against the cash support. What we're for, and what it's also important to say, is, we're too full of babysitting. And the fact that we get the payment down for the parents who have the children in kindergarten is also important. Is it the mother and father who now spends the most time with the children using the cash support? No, it's a day mother or someone else who gets hired in, who does. The cash support has not worked in the direction it was set up for. I think it's important to get involved. But the political line of the Labour Party – and I want it to be included in our budgets – is, as I said, more kindergartens, full kindergarten coverage and, at the same time, getting prices down. It's the most important thing in this area. That's the line we want to follow. But we realize that the majority in this hall is on a different line -- we can look at it -- and we've also ruled for that in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e408	The Centre Party and the Labour Party are some of the things that a good and free school, a more dignified care, organized the provision of those who need it, and cultural schools independent of the parent economy require a strengthened community economy and greater room for local solutions. The center party thinks that 4 billion dollars more than the government's proposal is most necessary for next year. The working party stopped at 2 billion and has pushed in a new, underfunded reform; five hours more in the children’s school without full compensation. Recently, the Labour Party has accepted that the municipalities, without extra funds, will have to take the additional costs of a tougher hospital printing practice. What is the Labour Party's strategy for the municipal sector? What is now needed are more long-term measures — debt restructuring, a multiannual escalation plan to correct the imbalance between tasks and resources, full funding for new reforms and a fairer distribution of funds between municipalities. Are these important tasks for the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e417	In the Labour Party budget, there is a strengthening of SEK 3.5 billion for the local government sector in addition to the government's arrangements. We also went in negotiations in this area, which was one of the three main areas in which we were to negotiate and on which we put a label; something has to be done here. In the agreement that you see now, you have invested more than half a billion kroner to strengthen the local government sector in addition to the government's plans. In relation to this and to the alternatives, as would be the case with a different negotiated solution, we thought that this was a step in the right direction to improve the finances of municipalities. But what's most important here is the welfare community – and the construction of it. The municipality part is part of this. Employment is very important – if we get employment up, it will help improve the finances of municipalities by means of tax revenues. In terms of the overall part that needs to be seen here, both in terms of employment and in terms of strengthening the local economy, we have done more than what was originally proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e424	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e427	Norway is on its way out of recession. Optimism is returning to business. Next year, we're expecting a five-fold increase in economic growth. Unemployment will gradually fall. The government's policy is starting to work. Last autumn we made it clear that the fight against rising unemployment had to be dominated by other political objectives. The government attacked the cause of rising unemployment: A tight budget would get interest down, and interest went down. Income policy cooperation was to ensure moderate wage settlement, and we got a moderate wage settlement. Large tax reliefs would make it more attractive to invest and develop new ideas in Norway, and tax reliefs were put in place. Efforts at research and education were to promote innovation, and the effort was put in place. A growing number of enterprises are now reporting positive results and more optimistic prospects. But we can't settle down on that. At the beginning of November, the NHO presented its half-yearly economic report. NHO reported: ‘The heaviest ceilings in the Norwegian economy have been taken. Now unemployment is falling, and businesses are gradually becoming more profitable.’ Furthermore, the NHO notes that during the second quarter of 2004, unemployment falls below the magic limit of 100 000. This is positive. Economic progress and lower unemployment mean much to the safety of people in everyday life. Now we have to take care of the basis that has been laid. That was the starting point of the government's proposal for a government budget. For this reason, the main political priorities were jobs, well-being and innovation. These objectives require a responsible economic policy, a commitment to research and education and a willingness to implement reforms to improve the growth capacity of the economy. There are two alternatives to the government’s economic policy: One is on the left, where one wants to reverse the clock by reversing the reforms aimed at modernising the public sector and implementing large tax increases that will affect jobs and Norwegian capital. The second option represents the Progress Party and their political and economic experiment that will inject many new oil billions into the Norwegian economy – a proposal that would put Norwegian businesses and our future pensions at risk. Before the budgetary procedure began, there were many who predicted both budgetary chaos and crisis. The budget negotiations have been marked by weeks of negotiations, breaks, much noise and crisis for many years. Such rounds create great space for the political game. The harvest's budget negotiations represent a settlement with the game. I record some politicians standing back disappointed, but I think most people are happy. Last year we negotiated for five weeks. This year it went away in five days. This year we made it clear that we wanted to see the alternative budgets of the opposition parties before we sat down to the negotiating table. It gave us a shorter negotiation period, but also a more transparent negotiation process. The government parties first contacted the Progress Party. After a couple of meetings, however, the Progress Party chose to break the negotiations. We offered the Advance Party to come back with a new offer, and we made it clear that we had more to go on. The Progress Party was given the opportunity to put its mark on the 2004 budget, but chose to stand out. I should like to commend the Labour Party for its willingness to take co-responsibility for the budget and for constructive and tidy negotiations. Our demands for a budget agreement were met. We have a responsible budget adopted within the same financial framework as proposed by the Government. This means that there is no obligation to spend more oil money and no tax tightening. On the contrary, we kept a little tax relief. The main profile of the Government’s proposal – workplaces, well-being and renewal – has been retained. In addition, the Workers' Party has had an impact on increased employment, local economy and health. In the right, we are particularly pleased that the budget agreement represents an additional commitment to the school by increasing the number of hours of education and by a further commitment to road development. Both components are important in the long-term strategy for innovation and value creation. After the budgetary conciliation was a fact, many were concerned about which party had given the most in the negotiations. Some media pointed to the Right. Of course, a budgetary settlement means that the parties have to jeopardize themselves. The Labour Party has achieved a great deal, but they have also had to set aside traditional labour party policies. The Workers' Party's wish for large tax incentives was parked. The same thing was wanted to liquidate the cash support and wanted to cut support for the boarding schools. The budget agreement also means that the Workers' Party provides subsidiary support for a number of structural reforms they have previously argued strongly against. Does that mean that the Workers' Party has lost? By no means. The agreement was possible because the parties refrained from defeating each other. The goal was to find solutions that everyone could live with. That made populism a loser, and reason prevailed. The budget agreement is also called historical. I'll do that. It is a good budgetary agreement, and it is new that a government with the Right is concluding a budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party. But it is not new that responsible parties show the willingness to come up with solutions in a difficult situation. It's done to the Right before, and it serves the Workers' Party to the credit that they set up this year. The Progress Party has responded to the budget agreement with a violent attack on the Right. There has been a suffrage that is only exceeded by the reaction last year when the Progress Party itself concluded a budgetary agreement with the Government Parties. I have to admit that I think it is a bit delicious to let go of a budget partner 5 minutes after the agreement has been signed. It's not always as easy to relate to the Progress Party as one day shows up to the right of us, and the other day shows up to the left of us. Before, Hagen called the Progress Party a Liberal Liberation Party. At the national meeting in May, he baptized the Progress Party of the New Workers' Party. Before, most of it had to be privatized. Now, state ownership is to be given priority. Before that, the billions of oil were to be walled in. Now they are distributed with the easiest mind. One day central FrPs are threatening to throw the government, then the next day to ask for a two-year cooperation agreement. Threats and mouths do not build trust. It's a paradox that the Progress Party says they want to cooperate more closely with the Right, while at the same time they're moving away from the Right. At the Conference of Rapporteurs of the Progress Party this weekend, Hagen said: ‘In opposition, you may complain and criticise, and you may use the same money several times.’ It is this strategy that makes the Progress Party today the biggest threat to new tax reliefs. Every time Carl I. Hagen gets an impact on new expenditure increases, the room for new tax reliefs is reduced. Or to quote central board member of the Progress Party, Torgeir Höien: «For each task undertaken by the State, the risk of lowering taxes and charges is reduced.» If the Progress Party believes that they want lower taxes, they should listen more to Torgeir Höien and less to Carl I. Hagen. Many remember the budget negotiations in 1998, when the Right in the negotiations with the central government said ‘no more in tax’. After two years in government, we have completed almost 20 billion kroner in tax credits. Now we have a budget agreement with the Workers' Party – without a penny more in taxes. Who would have thought that? Yeah, we even saved a little treasure. The house tax goes down. The right will continue to lower taxes. It's worth your while to work. People will retain more of their own income, and it will be more attractive to invest and develop new ideas in Norway. For the right, economic policy has always been required to be sustainable from a generational point of view. The 2004 budget is well adapted to the challenges both in the short and long term. Finally, let me address the proposals to which the Right is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e513	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to. The President would point out that an expectation of 5 minutes' duration for peace agreements in general must be seen as a moderate expectation. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e520	There is no reason to be satisfied as long as the unemployment rate is as high as it is. It has the government, and everyone else, a responsibility for it. Because of the similarity that the Labour Party has had, many people are now slipping. Lilletun is quite unstoppable because the budget has been better. Right-wing spokesmen are slipping, because they've got more money for the municipalities, for school and for care. The permits are not terminated immediately. They have the ability to breathe out. Those who are going to get rid of a contractual pension get a little better space to think about their possibilities. So this year, the Right has been in favour of well-being over tax havens. The right has placed itself today in the center, I heard Sanner say. My question to Jan Tore Sanner is: can we expect that even until next year, the Right will forget the voters rather than talk about the tax, which is completely unrealistic, as they have promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e527	This was a line that could invite you to proclaim Christmas holidays immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e531	I think it's good that people enjoy themselves. We need a little more joy in politics. If the budget agreement has helped to make even more people happy, I think it is very pleasant. But I may have to disappoint the representative of Frøiland on one point, namely that there should be some contradiction between well-being and tax havens. That's where the left-hand side is so completely wrong. In the past, we have documented how SV's tax reinforcements will stifle the creation of value, and how tax reinforcements undermine the entire welfare community. When we want tax havens, it's because we have faith that people have to take care of themselves. People have to keep more of their own income. It's worth your while to work. We will make it attractive to invest and develop new ideas in Norway. So we're going to make the pie bigger. Then there's more to distribute. Then there'll be more well-being. This socialist myth that there is a contradiction between tax relief and well-being, I believe is well-documented that there is no vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e538	Since Sanner used much of his post to talk about the Progress Party, I thought that I would allow him to talk a little bit about the government party's political basis, in response to my reply. I have a copy of the so-called Sem statement. My question is both short and simple: Does the Sem declaration apply?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e545	It would not surprise the President if the answer were yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e548	I can confirm that the answer is yes. Of course, the Sem statement applies. In two years we have documented that we have come very far in achieving the objectives set out in the Sem Declaration. This concerns the assistance, which has been stepped up. It's about transportation, where you've stepped up. This also applies to the tax relief, where we have actually paid $20 out of 31 promised billion kroner. This means that fewer people pay top taxes. This means that the house tax has been reduced. This means that the companies have been greatly taxed, such as: have helped reverse the economic cycle in Norway. In very many other areas, we have achieved a good deal in fulfilling what is contained in the Sem Declaration, which is the basis of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e553	Truer said that the government's policy is starting to work, and now unemployment will gradually decline. On the contrary, the government is in charge of increasing unemployment next year. In the national budget, they put a high unemployment rate of around 100,000 until 2007. Fortunately, when it comes to labour market policy, the government is being brought to a more active track by the opposition. In both the revised and state budgets, they now need to recognise that a more active policy must be pursued. We've seen Lilletun say rejoice over this, and last Friday Victor Norman also came out of the closet. In a debate here in the Stortinget on the licensing rules, Victor Norman said: ‘I have no problem with having to accept a slightly different policy in the labour market than we would ideally wish.’... ‘I think it is in the interests of the country.’ The government's policy against unemployment is not in the country's interest, but the opposition's policy is, quite clearly. Has the representative Sanner recognised the same, that it is the opposition's active policy to reduce unemployment that is best for the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e565	Anyone who believes that one and only manages the only truth does not get very far. But I have no doubt that the government's policy is the right one. That's what we're seeing now, that the government's policy is starting to work. We have attacked the causes of increasing unemployment. We could, of course, sprinkle around ourselves with many symbols, but what we've been busy about is doing something about the strong interest rate and the dollar rate. We have done so through a tight budget. We have reduced taxes and taxes to make it more attractive for companies to invest in Norway. We have contributed to a moderate wage settlement in order to do something about the salary increase. We also have experience that it takes some time from economic growth to affect unemployment. The Workers' Party knows that. When the Labour Party ran Norway in the 1990s, it took several years from growth to rise until unemployment began to decline. We have already received signals, including: by industry itself, that they look more positive on their prospects, and that in the second quarter unemployment will fall below 100 000. It's not the government's number, but it's business itself as a trail.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e570	It was a timely settlement that Jan Tore Sanner took with the Progress Party in his main post. It should nevertheless really worry Right and Jan Tore Sanner that this party is the government's parliamentary base, if it is not the case that the Right has changed side of Norwegian policy on a permanent basis. The cooperative administration has reduced taxes and taxes, says Jan Tore Sanner. Yeah, do you think so? The final processing fee has increased by 95 million. kr following the budgetary agreement. A newly started company in Møre and Romsdal has just delivered 30 m3 of waste to a waste treatment plant. It cost the company almost NOK 19 000. Of that, the fee is 16 100 kroner. It has increased by NOK 2 750 because of the budget agreement, or almost the same amount as the waste treatment facility takes to do this job. Does Jan Tore Sanner think this is a reasonable burden on business? How does it compare with what Jan Tore Sanner says about reducing taxes on business?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e579	This was a rather interesting line, because what we were experiencing now was that the Senter Party, which itself has provided an alternative budget with significant tax incentives, is concerned about a modest increase in the final treatment charge. It is also interesting that the party that has previously marketed itself as a green batch, which is concerned with the environment, now suddenly strongly argues against an environmental tax. It is a modest adjustment we have proposed, as a consequence of the budgetary agreement with the Labour Party. And it's an irrevocable fact that the tax burden on business, including in Odd Roger Enoxsen's home country, has fallen sharply since the co-operation administration took over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e586	The working party is very pleased that the contractual pension scheme for employees over 62 years of age is now continuing. The government would, of course, remove the possibility for companies to grant a grant pension under the AFP scheme. The Labour Party has now secured the system through the conciliation so that workers can leave after many years of working life in a worthwhile way. This is good and practical policy. Does the representative Jan Tore Sanner agree with the Workers' Party that the AFP scheme provides freedom of choice for employees and is good for the cleanliness of working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e593	I think it is important to bear in mind that the AFP scheme was introduced in its time to help the labour market workers. Gradually, we have seen that this scheme has included more and more groups. That is why the AFP system has come up for debate. I also believe that the former finance minister of the Workers' Party, now the head of the Pension Commission, does not, in fact, disagree very much with the proposal of the Government. I think we all have to admit that we need more labour. We need the older labour force, and we have recognised that the AFP system, as it has evolved, contributes to the loss of a lot of valuable labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e600	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e604	In the long-term program, there's a plan that's my favorite plan. It's the plan of the nation's wealth. I'm still surprised when I see it, because the nation's wealth is not what you'd think, that's what we have in the bank, what's in the Oil Fund, or what else had to be capital in Norway. The nation's wealth is what we have in our heads, and what we have in our hands. This plan shows that the entire 80 pst. of the wealth of this country are people – hands, heads, the work we live on. It shows that the value of work is the most important thing we have, and that's what's going to pay our future pensions. That means that if we don't have a policy of people getting a job, people need to use their skills for themselves, for the benefit of the community, you have a policy that's not forward-looking. The plan shows that there is no society that is so rich that it can afford unemployment, and it shows that we can't afford not to bet on what is the source of future growth: school, research, education. It shows that unemployment with all possible clarity is the greatest waste our society can carry out. That's the background for many of the choices and many of the value choices that SV makes, and the priorities we've made in our alternative budget. So you don't get rid of unemployment by passivity. When I heard Jan Tore Sanner's posts now, I believe I heard him say the exact same thing last year, namely that the government's policy has begun to work. Yeah, believe it! According to the budget now presented, we have 110 000 unemployed, and the forecast says there will be over 100 000 unemployed for many years to come. So there are hundreds of thousands of people, and their families, who will be hit by the greatest waste our society will be able to do. That means that there's a lack of patience in thinking that just now we're getting this or this – whether it's a crown price or what it's going to be – it's going to be better. This kind of political approach will not help the unemployed. So you have to get rid of the passivity. You have to get a completely different drive and a political will to get rid of it. That's what SV is proposing. This means that in our alternative budget we give the highest priority to the fight against unemployment, precisely on this basis, that it is wasted with the most important resource we have. For individuals it makes no sense not to have a job to do, and in our society there are many unresolved tasks that can be solved if these hands are used sensibly. That's the background for what we're doing. This means that this shift as the right-hand government is able to see, and it is probably only the one who is able to do so, that Norway is characterized by optimism in the daytime. It's probably just a right-hand man who'll be able to sum up like this. One of the reasons why this pessimism has riddled the country for a long time is a completely misguided monetary policy. Let me just take two words about it. This is also part of the back carpet because we have high unemployment. In Norway’s Bank a year and a half ago, several completely disastrous decisions were made in connection with the interest rate that drove the krone price to weather. This has led to many bankruptcies and to the fact that many companies that were viable failed to cope with the burden. Having a monetary policy that does not go hand in hand with fiscal policy – or say in another way that the Storting and the Central Bank do not agree on the means to be used, that one defines itself as an over-judgment and thus takes decisions that actually have disastrous consequences for both politics and individuals – is an example of a monetary policy regime like what we have. Norway’s Bank then decided to raise interest rates, which led to a major accident for many viable Norwegian communities. The many and frequent interest rates we've had after that confirm with all intents and purposes that this was wrong, and we see today that inflation in two years' time is very low, down to 0.9 pst. This shows that Norway’s Bank is far from the target of their mandate, namely 2.5 pst. When I choose to put some emphasis on this, it's because when you're trying to get rid of a social sin, which is unemployment, the different actors have to move in the same direction, and the willingness to do something about it has to be in place. Let me take two words about that as well. In euro area countries, there is now a struggle between the central bank and Germany and France. In Germany and France, more expansive budgets have been in place for many years than the European Pact, or the Stability Pact, allows, and this has now also been confirmed by a decision of the European Parliament. That makes the central bank and the Commission very concerned, because here the policy is winning over economic rules that do not work in bad times. The Stability Pact is a welfare pact which, of course, cannot be followed when unemployment is permanently high, as it is in Germany and in France. This is where you choose to use more expansive instruments – old Keynesian policies, counter-cyclical policies – and you say, of course, in the central bank, very concerned that this is illegal. But this is a struggle for economic understanding, a struggle for means of getting rid of this, and we clearly believe that it is the policy that must govern this, not the economic laws that politicians have made. In our alternative budget, we have a budget balance equal to that of the Government. In addition, we spend SEK 2.3 billion that we want to use in an active counter-cyclical policy to get out of work. That is precisely what we are doing to meet the many different sectors that have now been affected by unemployment, and we are doing so because this will affect the whole country and many different sectors, the public sector as well as the private sector. This would have created 20,000 new jobs in a relatively short time. This would have created optimism and confidence in the future, and it would have caused the industry to get the wheels going again. Let me just mention a little bit of what we're actually doing. What we might really need, is, to use an old term, a New Deal, a new pact, which Roosevelt launched in his time – not to get Norway out of the depression, because there is not depression in Norway, but to get a new pact between politics and citizens, between politics and society. We commit ourselves to trying to take some big lift that allows us to go a few steps further. Such a new pact, or a New Deal, could have brought with it new jobs, more justice, better well-being and not least greater stability and faith in the future. So let me say a little bit about the suggestions we have, which are actually kind of a New Deal, which is what we want. We're starting with what many people might feel like the most dramatic thing now, that the industry is flagging out. What does industry really need? Does it need increased tax relief? No, no, no. What industry needs is a stable monetary policy regime that makes them have a currency, so it can predict the next quarter. What it needs is a desire to invest. Are tax reliefs the only way to create a greater desire for investment? No, no, no. In this case, targeted tax relief for industry must be provided, and it is proposed by SV. We are proposing to increase depreciation rates for industry, so that we can create greater capacity for innovation, for the renewal of machinery, for increased productivity growth and efficiency growth, and thus get more hands at work. The industry needs this to get over the bend that, among other things, The change in monetary policy led them to be trapped in the middle. It was even – if I don’t remember completely wrong – the right central government member, Ekorenes, who is also a well-known industrialist, who called this monetary regime a bloodbath for Norwegian industry. This would generate growth and new investments. We will also use considerable resources in the construction industry in Norway. We have more than 10,000 vacant building workers and workers. Rising schools, taking care of protective buildings and cultural memories, investing in the House Bank so that more people can build their own homes, and implementing racial protection – we have a lot of road sections in Norway that are exposed to race – are very employment-efficient and would bring great social benefits. We have e.g. measures such as railway investment. Many railway sections in Norway, not least here in the East, need upgrading and new tracks. So these are measures that will bring social benefits, while at the same time giving job vacancies. In addition, we want to invest in the public sector, more teachers into school. It's the high-quality teachers in school, and we now have thousands of teachers who don't have a job, especially young teachers. Obviously, these have to find their jobs among our children, so that the school gets even better. In the health sector and in psychiatry, we need free hands. Much of the quality of care and care is human beings, not any other factor. In the opinion of the Swedish authorities, letting caregivers go free in such a situation is completely pointless. So it's not a lower tax that creates optimism. What creates optimism is that we're trying together to say that we're going to try to do something about this. That's what SV does. We also focus on the possibility of more equity for business. Where banks and private sources of finance are not set up, there is a need for young people to create their own jobs or for new businesses to have an opportunity. There we have SND, and there we have many different governmental and municipal instruments that SV wants to use. Paradoxically, this is among the first things Right cutters, based on an ideological notion that state money creates state ownership, that's what we're against, physical! It is a description of reality and a sense of reality in this government that unfortunately is very far away from the reality of many Norwegian businesses, from landing to landing, experience. We spend more money on research and education, because it's the jobs of the future. Strangely enough, we note that in this budgetary agreement, actual research has been cut. Of all the possible things you have chosen to take a cut of research, where you shouldn't have done it at all. A pact between us and the citizens should also contain more justice. Let me just say that in this government's period, these two and a half years it's been sitting, you've managed to do unsocial cuts of more than $6 billion, cut for those who don't have that much initially. It can be cut for the unemployed, cut for the unemployed, many different small and large cuts that make everyday life a little harder for those who have the least. On the other side of the scale, tax relief has been granted to those who have the most, more than NOK 4 billion. Clearly, this government has an unsocial project that we do not share. We strongly believe that a society that is going to make use of all its resources, and where all its people are going to have the opportunity of dignity and good life, cannot keep up with such petty cuts for those who have the least. Of course, in our arrangement, we're zeroing out these self-esteem increases that the government has proposed. We are pleased that the Workers' Party has done this a little better, but yet there is one billion kroner in the ususial cut in the agreement the Workers' Party has agreed to. Then we believe, and believe very strongly, that this reflection of justice, fortunately, has the Norwegian people, namely that, after all, we are all going to contribute, means that we have to redistribute in our tax system. That means that those who have the most have to contribute something more. That means that those who have the least, actually, are going to get tax relief, and that's what they get with SV's scheme. All people who have an income of less than NOK 300000 will receive tax relief with SV. Those between 300,000 and 500,000 will have moderate tax increases, and those in the ranks where a depositor is, and upwards, will have tax austerity. We have a backlog to bear when we know that the increased tax we have to pay goes to those who have the least. SV does not tax business harder, as some people do, but we tax capital harder. This means that those who currently have tax-free dividends must, of course, pay taxes with the SV's proposal. The evening item on its economics today, for example, called Norway a ‘tax haven’, which it has been since the introduction of the tax reform. Norway is a tax haven for owners of capital. They're the ones who sew the highest, but they're the ones who have the least reason to sew. In all countries around us, you actually have to pay taxes on the capital you have, including the capital you get as a dividend. This could be some of the elements of a pact between us and our citizens. Then we choose to create more well-being. SV is the party that actually does it. We spend an extra SEK 4.6 billion on the local economy, because it creates a better chance to solve welfare problems. This money exists if you just want to prioritize. In addition, we spend a lot of money on different measures within the municipality, especially within the school, which will improve this. But we also spend money on health and psychiatry to make everyday life a little bit easier and a little bit better for the many out there who depend on our decisions. Also in the case of SFO, we want a new agreement. We would have liked the Storting to do as for the nursery agreement, that we all agree to take a lift for the SFO. The most paradoxical thing about parents is that SFO, which is actually a worse offer than kindergarten, a shorter offer and not a pedagogical offer, is almost more expensive than a kindergarten. Luckily, when kindergarten prices go down, thanks to our initiative, SFO prices will unfortunately go up. Then really, the Storting man should say that it's like this in a modern family that most children need SFO. Most children need SFO for safe care when school days are short. This means that getting a common lift for the school leisure system would be necessary. Unfortunately, we're recording that this is one of the things that Right Consistent Cuts in, and it's deeply regrettable. This should have been agreed by the Stortinget, because this is important for families with children in Norway. The last thing is on how to create greater stability for the future. I have to say that what we've experienced in these two and a half years with an ever-changing majority is that it's impossible to know who's behind a decision, because everything goes across. This is also SV a part of, for all of us, we make a majority with anyone if it goes in our direction. So we feel that the next day this decision is zeroed out, because then the government has gone to someone else. This way of wiping out what's opposition and position, who's responsible and not responsible, I think over time is totally destructive to politics and not least to the reputation of politics. Our clear goal is to become a majority in 2005. It will help to strengthen the image of policy. [[The President clubs.]] I hear the president clubs, and that is why I should just bring up the suggestions that SV has in the vote, including a proposal that has been distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e651	The representative of Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e656	In its alternative government budget, the Labour Party is busy creating values before a distribution for good purposes. Øystein Djupedal and SV are most busy sharing. SV will use 2.3 billion oil crowns more than the Labour Party and the Government Party add, calling it countercyclical policy. At the same time, SV cuts oil investments at over DKK 1 billion next year. In addition, SV is against the Snow White extension. So SV is for a policy that will provide the government with lower oil revenues both in the short term and in the long term. At the same time, SV will use more of its national oil crowns every year. This rhymes badly. My question is: is it so to understand that the goal of SV is for future pensioners to pay for this policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e663	I thank you for a good line, because it gives me the opportunity to say the following: Oil investments are one of the most fluctuating things in the Norwegian economy, and there are many who suffer. They can vary from 40 billion dollars a year to over 70 billion dollars a few years later. This makes the supply industry in Norway very vulnerable: they suddenly have full order books, the next day they don't have a single order. The entire West Coast suffers from this, namely that there is no one trying to control oil investment, so that stable employment, stable oil extraction over time can be achieved. Now oil investments are about to rise. Next year they're forecast to be something over 70 billion kroner. There is almost ‘all hour high’ in the oil sector. When we cut oil investments by approx. One billion kroner, as the Upbeøen Hansen correctly says, it's because we want to free up capital that can be invested in mainland Norway, to make us less oil dependent and to increase the ability to value here. I really thought that the Workers' Party would have sympathy for this, because turning investments from a sector that makes us extremely dependent on one sector's investment, to something that gives us many legs to stand on, is, of course, sensible policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e668	The representative Djupedal spent a lot of time talking about the symbol New Deal, but the content is the old deal. There are tax increases for businesses and workers, both in his posts and in the SV's alternative state budget. I seemed to perceive a flash of light in this last Friday in the best time on the NRK when the representative Djupedal, as I perceived it, stood forward and commented on his previous condemnation that individuals, especially sports heroes, no longer found Norway attractive to live in. My question and my challenge is really simple: does this public dispute on the tax side of the representative Djupedal mean that he could also imagine looking at his and the party's ritual attitudes to constantly want a higher tax burden for Norwegian business, Norwegian investors and Norwegian workers, not just wanting to change this for sports heroes? Can we expect a more positive tax stance in the future also towards the foreground figures that are investors and workers in Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e675	I thank you for a humorous reply. Not many days ago I was at a big First Tuesday meeting here in Oslo with many young, good people who have faith in the future and want to create their own business. I sat in the panel with Minister Gabrielsen, and we had a very nice time. We sat there with a lot of good people. What's interesting is that not one of these people who has faith in something, especially in information technology, mentions tax. Not one of these people sees treasure as a hindrance to their success. What they're talking about is equity, research, that we need good, competent people, and where are we going to find them? They are not talking about the level of costs in Norway or that kind of thing. Our point is: SV does not tax business harder at all, but we tax capital harder, and we like to acknowledge that, because in every country around us you have to do that too. The fact that you do not have a tax on dividends is, in my opinion, a remarkable thing about our tax system and the greatest injustice in our tax system. But we have faith in young people, and believe that the tax system should be adapted so that one can start business in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e682	Historically, SV has been concerned with increasing electricity charges and has had a reasoning around it. Last winter we experienced power prices that caused great problems for many people. The outlook for this winter is not much brighter. We're also getting increased transfer rates. It was therefore surprising that SV also proposed an increased electricity charge this year. For many years, the authorities have provided for efflux heating and many have no alternatives. My question is: is it worrying that over 500,000 households are in danger of either having to freeze during the winter or getting electricity bills that they cannot pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e689	Yeah, we're really worried about that. We are surprised that what happened last winter has not caused more people to unlock their eyes and think through what we can do to avoid this in the future. Two answers may be given. One is that we have to make sure fewer people use electricity for heating. We have to give them an alternative option, and that means investing in biofuels, in other forms of non-current heating. That's what most neighboring countries around us do. Not least in Sweden, this is a huge industry. I don't know how many TWh they have in heating due to biofuels etc. This would have been a forward-looking answer. The second answer is that we must help those who are severely punished. Last year, fortunately, the Storting had different arrangements for installation, to help people in that situation. We want that to continue and have included it in our alternative budget. But the main answer to Monsen’s question is this: Liberalising the power supply in Norway, as we have done – we have one of the most liberal and liberal forces in Norway – makes it impossible to provide ordinary people with electricity at an affordable price. It is the market that is the main problem, not the consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e700	Representative Øystein Djupedal spoke in his article about the modern family. In SV's alternative budget, one of the clearest innovations in modern family policies, namely cash support, is removed. Cash support is a reform that means that parents' own choices are respected, and the reform has been appreciated. But when SV is talking about removing cash support, SV is talking about these grandchildren as being a group that is unable to assess what is the best care for their children. Today, there are many thousands of families who have cash support as a form of care. Does SV mean that these grandchildren are taking crazy choices for their children? Does SV mean that they are better equipped than grandchildren to choose which type of care is the best for these children?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e707	It won't fall into us! Each family has to make the choices that are right for itself and its family. Of course, they are free to do that. Whether or not to receive cash support is another discussion. We are in favour of cash support in the sense that we are too child-responsive. We've adjusted the price of the child's pension this year again. This government has, in all the years it has existed, excelled in not price-setting the child's pension, which is a cash-support transfer to all the country's families, regardless of whether you have childcare or choose to care for the child at home, if you have a day-old mother, or what it may be. The weaknesses of cash support are so obvious, and they become more and more obvious. Because if you have a day mother, you get cash support. If you have a kindergarten, you don't get it. The support is not linked to the care of the child by your mother or father; it is linked to a need for attention, namely that you do not use a public scheme for kindergarten. We don't want cash support. The cash support will hopefully also, when the kindergartens are extended, mean that fewer families want to use cash support, and that more families will use kindergarten. But it's the family's choice. It does not add Stortinget, at least not SV, to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e717	We've got too many people out there. From 1 May, workers from several countries will have access to our labour market. Today it is prohibited to pay non-resident workers below the normal Norwegian level, but it is only if they come from outside the EU. The Poles lose their protection from 1 May. Full opening of workers’ boundaries from the new EU countries will make it worse for those who are unemployed in Norway today. It becomes more difficult to get a job, and there will also be a pressure on the pay level. Welfare schemes may also be abused, following the analyses carried out. We may require a transitional period, as Finland, Austria and Germany have done. We see from the budget papers that the government has not built up a control apparatus. They say they should consider it. There seems to be little willingness not least to change the rules to protect against social dumping. The question of SV will then be: Will SV contribute to Norway's need for a transitional period in order to have better time to put in place a regulation and a control device to protect our unemployed and those who can come here?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e728	I'm a little surprised at this line, because the representative Morten Lund is well aware that we've put in a proposal in the Stortinget to counteract social dumping. Focusing on transitional arrangements is completely wrong. What we have to get rid of is social dumping in general. Unfortunately, we already see that some farmers and others have used labour on terms far below what Norwegian society accepts. Focusing on transitional arrangements is completely wrong. We want Poles, esters and other welcome to Norway to work, but they will work under the same conditions as ordinary Norwegian workers. We're not going to allow social dumping in any form, no matter where humans come from. When they come to Norway, Norwegian pay and work conditions are taken into account. We have put forward a proposal in the United Kingdom with four good proposals to combat social dumping. We have it open, and will require transitional arrangements if the Storing cannot go in the direction we want. But we're not focusing on transitional arrangements, because they end. We focus on how to ensure that all employees in Norway, all those who work in Norway, such as Poles, Esters, Nordics or others, are assured of decent working conditions and decent payment. It focuses on SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e735	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e738	This year, agreement on the state budget came to port in a calm and dignified manner. The noise that has been common in recent years shines with its absence. Many newspapers wrote that this was good both for politicians, for the country’s economy and for Norwegian policy. The feedback from the financial community goes the same way, and not least – the broad and strong feedback from people most of the time sounds like this: that was good! It's simply that the unity of some political goals is very big. This applies, for example: the fight for jobs and against unemployment. It concerns the objective of safety and well-being in the neighbourhood, and it applies to good crop conditions. So there's a greater disagreement about how we're going to achieve these measurements. In this situation, we have two choices. We can keep our path straight, or we can try together to find a way to the common goal. This budgetary agreement is a good example of the last. That is what I call practical and good political craftsmanship. In this situation, I will give tribute to the Workers' Party, which sided with its own party-tactical concerns and chose a constructive and responsible line. This has provided a good basis for winning the fight for jobs and against unemployment. In the Christian People's Party, we are slipping over this, not only that there was an agreement on the budget, but that responsibility prevails over populism! Too many people have last year stamped their hour card at their workplace for the last time, with the status of ‘unemployed’ as their next stop. This has made the fight for jobs and against unemployment the number one. And this fight we're going to win. We already see light in the tunnel. Optimism, both in business and in households, is on its way back. Last year we had another challenge. The demand from both employer and employer sides was as follows: Give us a tight budget that can lay the basis for reduced interest rates and lower interest rates. This challenge took us. In one year the interest rate has been reduced by 4.5 pst. Furthermore, the krone price is weighted and it has come down to a competitive level. In addition, income policy cooperation has led to a moderate wage settlement. Today we see the fruits of a rough course. The medicine's working. The economy has stabilised, and we see a growing optimism in the business world. A previously unknown person in this room, Paul Chaffey, now director of Abelia, said last week to Technical Weekly – according to the Web newspaper: «We see a trend change... The situation was quite different a year ago. At that time, the focus was on cutting and savings by almost everyone in the industry.– Now many believe that they will experience growth in 2004 and are preparing to hire people.’ This is just one of several feedback from the business community. Optimism is going back, and that's good. In this situation, it is important to take care of the positive effect of a reduced interest rate and a reduced dollar rate, so that existing jobs are secured and that new ones can be created. For this reason, it is important that the expansion of monetary policy continues to work, and we are assured by a clear framework for the use of oil money. In the context of a responsible fiscal policy, we are embarking on concrete measures that will create jobs. It shall apply, inter alia: road and rail bets. We provide additional means of building new buildings and refurbishment of school buildings. We're creating a new fund for innovation and growth, and we're investing heavily in research. It is strengthened by 50 new settings, in addition to the 400 already allocated in 2003. In the budgetary agreement with the Labour Party there is additional strengthening of e.g. SND, Husbanken, road and public transport. Both indirect and direct actions thus enable the current budgetary position to create and secure jobs. Although the United Nations has stated that Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in, we still have major challenges at many levels. The good welfare that the UN commends us for can be made better and more accurate. As a result of a co-conspirator's nursery court, our government is adding to the largest family policy effort in many years, with 12,000 new kindergarten seats and a maximum price of NOK 2 750 from 1 May 2004. The fight against poverty will be reinforced. There's almost $1 billion in here. The high level of activity in the hospital sector is continued, and efforts in the psychiatry are stepped up by a new 700 million. kr. The government is continuously working on measures for municipalities to provide both economic and political space for the provision of good and safe welfare to citizens. In addition to the nearly 4 additional billion kroner that were originally part of the municipal scheme, the budget agreement provides additional 2.2 billion kroner at the disposal of the local government sector. At the top of this, municipalities will subsequently also have significantly reduced interest rates as a result of a lower level of interest rates. In the Christian People's Party, however, we are very aware that life is more than work and good welfare arrangements. It's also important to have something to live for. For this reason, the Christian People's Party has always considered it important to create good conditions for the voluntary sector. Through voluntary effort and commitment, it is possible to use other sides of itself than a do in work or in school. In addition, it is an indisputable fact that the voluntary sector is carrying out an invaluable and irreplaceable social effort. Therefore, it has been an important matter for the Christian People's Party to get tax deductions for gifts to voluntary organizations. This scheme received a large increase in the previous budget. This budget provides for voluntary contributions from the Norwegian Church to be included in the scheme. There is still a positive development potential in the scheme. It applies both to the amount of the gift, to the minimum amount of bureaucracy, to the maximum amount of justice and justice, and to ensuring the most equal treatment possible when indebted to the Norwegian Church and to other trust societies. In this budget, the government has also prioritised baptism training with a new 25 million. kr. In this way, the baptismal training plan may be implemented in accordance with the size decided earlier this year. Norway is one of the best countries to live in. Therefore, we must be careful so that we do not become ourselves enough! Our prosperity must not make us forget those who live beyond our limits. I'm thinking of the poorest of the poor. In the Christian People's Party, we are proud that this government budget also shows an increase in aid. The aid rate is now up to 0.94 pst. of GNI. Assistance and the environment are closely linked. Our government has an active environmental exposure. It came in, among others. strongly expressed at the Johannesburg Environment Summit in 2002. There, Norway made an effort that weighed international attention and respect. In the national budget, this commitment is followed up by a reference to National Agenda 21. Here the Government presents a plan for the implementation of the challenges we received from the world community through the Johannesburg Conference. The government's international commitment is now being followed nationally as well. The draft budget currently available can be summarised in three key headings: work, well-being and renewal. We are investing in this budget on measures to secure and create jobs. We strengthen and further develop key welfare benefits, and we invest in innovation and development through education, research and innovation. The Christian People's Party is well pleased with the budget adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e786	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e789	The representative of Sørfönn must have noticed the strong points of view that have come about money cuts in very many of our municipalities. Especially do the elderly who are not well cared for and who feel that they are being treated badly. It also affects elephants who are not well trained. State Council Solberg praised earlier in the fall proposal from the Government and believed that municipalities will get enough money next year. Following the agreement between the Labour Party and the Government Party, care for the elderly and training in the school will be better. I believe that the representative Sørfönn does not support Solberg's praise for the municipal arrangement from the Government. My question is: does the representative Sørfonn realize that the budgetary agreements with the Labour Party facilitate the everyday lives of numerous spokesmen around the country and are a gift package for the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e798	I want to start by reminding you of the historical fact that the situation for the municipalities is not something that has occurred overnight. It is actually a situation that has been in good years, and also in some of the years that the Labour Party has had government responsibility. But in our government, we have taken a real boost to get something done about this -- it's pronounced, and it's also shown in practice, because the promise of nearly $4 billion that was taken for the municipalities in the budget is historically large. It is clear that we are pleased that in the budgetary agreement with the Labour Party this amount is additional – it should be lacking – so that the situation is even better for the inhabitants of the municipalities. That's where life is lived, and that's where our decisions actually get their lacmus test – if the measures we saw in action really work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e803	My question to the representative Sørfonn is not about any of the big things in the budget, but perhaps about one of the more curious. The increase in the charge of raisins was the great election campaign of the Christian People's Party, not necessarily a huge success, but it has at least become part of the budget. SV writes quite correctly in its comments that the problem is that the fee does not hit all the rushes, and refers to the United States, where producers of course adapted and switched from alcohol-based to beer- and wine-based products, which had not received a fee increase. Does the Christian People's Party have reason to believe that this will not happen in Norway, and that it may only be a blow in the air?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e812	I have to admit that I'm now in an area that I have more of a theoretical than a practical relationship to. However, I have not avoided noticing the concerns that come from many parents about the consequences of the intoxication, which is a typical drinking drink for alcohol. For this reason, there was also an almost consensual increase that was already reported in the revised national budget to just look at making the noise more expensive by applying the levy. I also understand theoretically this difference between spirits based and other raisins. But after what I have been informed, the essential part of the rush is spirits based, so that the problem that the Monsen is drawing here, in my opinion, is somewhat exaggerated. We are confident that the current tax increase will have the desired effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e819	There has already been a frequent reference in this debate to Jon Lilletun's outburst of joy at the conclusion of the budgetary agreement. As I know Ingebrigt Sørfonn, he is also a man who would like to draw a broader sky over his political project than just billions of dollars in taxes. Nevertheless, it has been part of the basis of a government that has distributed almost $20 billion in tax bills in just over two years, and which has been unable to do anything material with, for example. the economic situation of municipalities. The addition to the municipalities that now came into the budget agreement, we know that we are barely enough to offset the tax failure experienced by the municipalities. Nevertheless, the Sem statement says that there will be even stronger tax credits, a total tax bill of NOK 30 billion will be given during the period. My question to Ingreigt S. Sørfonn is whether he believes the goal of such extensive tax havens should be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e826	I thought this was an interesting line, and I want to return the question. When it comes to the tax bills that have been given, is it that SV is dissatisfied with the strong increase in the minimum deduction that goes not only on amounts but also on percentages, so that it really hits the low-income groups – it's close to $2 billion? Is it the case that SV disagrees with the increase in depreciation rates – more than NOK 3 billion is the amount that I am aiming for – the investment fee goes down by NOK 6 billion, the airport charges go down by NOK 1.7 billion? My point with this listing is that the rhetoric that is going on that tax relief is just about giving the richest more income is totally wrong. When it comes to the Sem Declaration, it stands firm, and our government and government party will do what they can to fulfill the various elements of the Sem Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e834	The representative, Mr Sørfonn, expresses joy at the budgetary agreement. The centre party is very close to contentment, but believes that the budget has got a slightly better profile now than the government's proposal. For the Central Party, the primary school has always been a high priority, and we see that the primary school is experiencing an increase in student numbers and is a popular and important school class. I thought the Christian People's Party was still standing by what they said when new law on high schools was passed about a year ago, where predictability of funding was a significant point. That's why I want to challenge the representative Sørfonn to explain the dramatic cut folk high school gets, at $22 million. kr – this is a school battle that balances financially on a knife’s eggs. Is it not no longer the Christian People's Party, together with the Center Party and other high school friends, to ensure the economic predictability of the national colleges in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e843	When it comes to the last question, if the Christian People's Party is no longer associated with the Center Party, it can sometimes be a bit tiring, because I record that the Center Party is changing its position from time to time. It can give rise to demanding challenges. When it comes to the public spheres, on which the question goes, they have a long tradition in our country. The public spheres have an important task to do in the future. There is no doubt that some of the cuts made in this budget have been more painful than others. It's made priorities, and when the public spheres get a cut, as it is done here, it's made up of the overall economic situation. But I would like to add that from the point of view of the Financial Committee, the Skjäla has been given a mandate – which is well-known to the Skjäla – to the various professional committees to find practical solutions within the trade union budget. The powers are liberal and there is also the possibility of finding solutions both to this issue and to a number of other challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e852	Arnulf Överland says in one of his poems, ‘It’s nice that you enjoy another, it’s the only joy.’ So it’s nice that we in the Workers’ Party have contributed to ‘the only joy’ as he expressed it, for Ingebrigt Sørfonn, and not least for his party traps across the country. We have contributed to a budget that provides more for health, school and care for the elderly and more opportunities for the unemployed to return to work. This is a budget that points away from the right triangle that the government's policy has given to now, and I think that's what makes many people happy across the country. Ingredient Sørfonn said that responsibility has prevailed over populism. The same expression used Jan Tore Sanner in his post, where he also made a very strong settlement with the Advance Party. This can hardly be understood as anything other than the farewell of the government parties to their parliamentary basis. How, then, have the government parties intended to have a majority for the political course contained in the Sem Declaration, for the rest of the period?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e861	The Government Party is well pleased with this budgetary agreement, which has led to the Workers' Party joining the main lines of the Government's policy. We are very pleased that the Labour Party has gone away from among others. a part of its invasion proposals, which were totally impossible, and which would break with both the Sem Declaration and the various government parties. As far as the glass is concerned, I am overconfident that our government, which is a minority government, will also take that challenge in a good way, and as a member of a government party here in the Chamber, I am sure that the main lines of government's policy, which is also set out in the Sem Declaration, will be passed on. But it's like when you're going to negotiate, it's a give and take. We know that from these negotiations, and we've seen that a second time. But the main lines are passed on, I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e868	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e871	I want to confirm again that we in the Center Party are enjoying ourselves together with Jon Lilletun. It was great that there was a budgetary settlement with the Workers' Party that gave rise to the most important areas for the Centre Party and for people most: more to school and care, more to hospitals and more to the fight against unemployment. Then I understand that Lilletun must say that it is a good budget that has become even better. I maintain that it was an irresponsible budget. The main thing about the budget agreement is that the party's neck roof on the government failed. It also gives Right less power. It's good if it gets like this. When the agreement has given such great and general joy, the question is, why didn't it happen before? And why not go further on the right path? The municipalities will continue to receive no more than what was decided in the spring. Hospitals need more. Only 200 out of 3,000 vacant road builders get a job. Continued to increase the proportion of medicine and medical visits by 600 million. kr in relation to this year. The guys with top incomes keep theirs. It is the oil money limit and the tax relief measure that have dictated this budgetary settlement. Only over the New Year can more be used for good purposes. Then money will be taken from the oil fund, but not from the richest. The rule of action for the use of oil money is stone dead, but there are new limits to what the economy tolerates, while people are almost required to borrow in the bank for more Christmas presents. Understand that the one who can: Appropriations for unemployed teachers and road workers to get a job will be devastating for the Norwegian economy, while a new record in the Christmas trade will be the blessing and saving it all. The return on 4 pst. for the oil fund, it has proved to be a pure dream. By following a careful line and placing more in bonds, the four percent would have been reached. The profit in six years would be NOK 100 billion. In addition to the four dream percentages, 16.5 billion oil has now been used. That amount will probably increase to well over 20 billion DKK before the end of 2004. The budget agreement contains many tricks to keep the balance. Granting for only the first six months is well used, but new rounds are also indicated. When the same state-owned property and concession sales are used as cover several consecutive years and the treasury of state-owned companies can be emptied, no batches will need to spend more oil money in their alternative budget. But do such magic give less pressure to the economy and more to pensions? The Central Party’s alternative government budget is headed ‘3 strategies for increased value creation and welfare across Norway’. The core is a series of proposals that will increase both labour supply and demand. Only increased value creation could over time provide a safe basis for future pensions for all. The savings and tax relief line of the Government contributes to the opposite. Government policies have increased unemployment more than in any other country. Societal losses are huge. The reduction in the labour force of 35,000, which we have had in two years, is estimated to give annual losses of NOK 15-20 billion. The National Association of Process Industries has estimated that Norwegian goods exporters have lost NOK 30 billion net since 2000 on the strong crown. The Government has opposed any countermeasures proposed. With the support of the Progress Party, tax relief rewards are paid to those who take out capital from companies as dividends. These tax-free revenues amounted to NOK 42 billion in 2002. Then it becomes sparing with equity again. The centre party will have increased focus on existing labour reserves. We've been saying for a long time what Victor Norman said in the throne debate, that there are hundreds of thousands of involuntary unemployed except those who are registered. We're convinced that society will make a lot of money out of everyone getting involved in value creation based on their assumptions. For this reason, we propose that each national budget should provide an overview of the total reserves and measures put in place to get people to work. The centre party will have determined what the benefits can be in all sectors if the workforce increases by 100,000 – what needs to be invested in order to enable business to receive as many, how the workforce can be processed to produce smarter, how women can participate and earn more, how seniors can get more work, how cows removed on the roads and in the health care system can contribute, how we can prevent health and environmental damage in order to reduce the large losses in social accounts, and what we can do to maintain living by moving labour out of the press areas where there is free capacity. The centre party will invest more of the oil fund in domestic value creation and less in Coca-Cola. The Centre Party's alternative budget will provide 17 000 more annual works, broken down by 6 000 in health, school and care, 5 000 in construction and 6 000 in other industries. More work is intended to give NOK 3 billion in profit. Of the Central Party's business package of SEK 4.7 billion in addition to the government's arrangement, only 100 million goes. kr for labour market measures. We focus most on connecting free hands to good ideas, undone work and available capital where values are created. We'll bet an extra $1 billion in the transport sector. Such efforts are at the top of all business wish lists, and the plans and people to do the job have been waiting a long time. The centre party will focus on a targeted business policy, with the most help to those industries from which we are strong. We therefore grant money for development packages for the yard industry, the marine sector, travel and furniture industries. We are increasing SND appropriations to above 2001 levels, allowing SND to provide as good assistance as before all aid schemes were merged into one body. The business package of the centre party is in accordance with the wishes of the business community. We offer predictability. We see no need to change the rules on leave every six months – neither in terms of the length of the daily allowance period, nor in terms of the number of days paid by the employer. We don't think the permitting system is being abused. The centre party will increase the control effort towards the black economy. In the hearings of the Financial Committee, we are told that each additional control year in the tax bill brings a profit of between 3 and 5 million. kr. A check in the Oslo nightlife business revealed that a third party of the employees were not registered. There are such revelations that have to determine where to put the effort. The dominant cause of the problems in the export industries is the monetary policy introduced in 2001. In retrospect, we see that it has been unsuccessful and harmful in all ways. Business needs stable and predictable conditions. Inflation-driven monetary policy has led to the opposite. It is obvious that Norway’s Bank does not have sufficient forecasting tools. The parties still believe that it is necessary to clarify that the whole of the interest rate instruction should apply and that stable conditions for employment and production should count the most. It is not enough for such clarification to be hidden between the lines of the national budget. The 2004 tax regime of the Centre Party provides for lower taxes on funds and low income through an increase in the percentage of the minimum deduction, an increase in the free-card limit and a tax deduction for single-residents with low income. Anyone who earns more than NOK 330,000 gets an increased tax. We remove the most unsocial tax burden ever given by reintroducing the dividend tax. Women are most and most of the winners in this scheme. 500,000 women receive tax relief, only 170,000 receive higher taxes. 330,000 men get lower taxes, 590,000 get higher. This is a tax haven for better equality and better distribution. The EU forces us to remove a classified employer’s fee. It should have ended with a court case. The EU will force through this change just before it itself will review its own arrangements. The centre party is pleased that the whole Stortinget is now behind a decision in favour of Norwegian business. Better time for conversion and more accurate and sustainable compensation mechanisms must result from those decisions. We also take on the over-management of the EEA Agreement in other contexts. Different leave periods in different industries shall become illegal. The electricity charge must be removed for all production from the new year and introduced for light and heat in the same companies from Sankthans. Probably billions of investments are needed, and we get a lot of grey zones as a result. Grants for environmentally friendly incineration of waste may be prohibited. And that should be for the benefit of business! The centre part increases the free income of the local government sector by NOK 4 billion and the earmarked ones by NOK 1 billion. There is no premise to introduce a new costly reform with this money. Yesterday's emergency call here in Oslo from 124 rapporteurs underlines the need for this money. After the election campaign in the autumn, no one dreamed that almost 2 billion kroner would be proposed to the municipalities than the Stortinget decided in the spring. It was just questions of how many billion extras would come. The Minister of Local Affairs' comments on the agreement's increase of SEK 2.2 billion say that the desire to transfer local welfare services to private companies is strong. The rapid implementation of full VAT conversion for municipalities tells the same thing. Those who do not wish to put out competition shall be forced to do so. Those who do not want to merge must also be forced. Why wasn't that said just before election day? Then I think the turnout would have been high! But I guess that's what you were afraid of. Then I'll take up those proposals from the Center Party that have not already been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e930	The representative Morten Lund has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e935	The start of the post to Morten Lund sounded like music in my ears, for I have been sitting in the same committee as the representative Lund, and then it was dark in the country. That was when the Workers' Party was in government. It didn't happen one day without the representative Lund and the Central Party criticizing the Workers' Party for everything, all the time. Now it was tones, and I'm very happy about that. I'm actually taking it as direct praise to the Workers' Party, which has now influenced the Government in the right direction. When the Center Party was in government, the Center Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, promised NOK 5 billion more for transportation in the National Transport Plan. And then the Center Party went into government, and then there were none of these road billions. That's life, and that's how we learn gradually. I'd like to ask, to get a little reprise on the rose here: isn't the representative Morten Lund happy with the priority the Workers' Party has been on, namely of work, health and school, and $3.5 billion more to municipalities and counties in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e942	Well, that's the center party satisfied with. There were improvements in the right direction at the most important points. As the representative Fallet was in the Chamber, we have agreed more after the Workers' Party also came into opposition. I remember the time when Stoltenberg was in Finmark and almost was chased home for the Labour Party's district policy and policy in relation to the municipalities. It's changed, and that's good. I hope that the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV will cooperate on the matters on which we are clearly agreed. I hope so. It's going to show up fast. One of the areas is transport appropriations. I think we agree on that. Having people walking free, and the machines waiting, is the stupidest thing to do when the business is the most wanted, is to get rid of the bottlenecks on the roads -- let's get cheaper transport of the goods that are to come from the businesses. We're going to agree on many points when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e949	The representative Lund and the Central Party are engaged in putting the whole country into service. The party therefore grants, as the representative Lund was inside his post, billions of dollars for various nutritional measures, or action packages, as it is called in the Center Party. Government parties are also engaged in putting the whole country into service and maintaining jobs in districts. But much of the settlement in the districts is based on already existing industry, and in particular export businesses. Many municipalities have one or two such corner stone holdings, and depend on their maintenance, but such export companies have worn out heavily in recent years due to high dollar rates, high interest rates and high cost levels. The economy has therefore promoted a unanimous demand in relation to the budgets, namely to have a competitive framework and to pursue a tight fiscal policy. That is what is at the top of the business wish list, to which the representative Lund referred. An overall business life has strongly warned against the use of more oil money, because it destroys the foundations of the workplace. However, the central party chooses to ignore this message and spend SEK 3.3 billion more on its budget, spending more than DKK 5 billion on different fund and loan schemes. Then my question is: does the Central Party really believe that business doesn't know its own best when they require a tight fiscal policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e958	This government's business policy has been a disaster. We have lost 35 000 jobs during this time. The wallpaper that society suffers from this is probably about. $20 billion a year. If we had used approx. Extra 5 billion kroner, took it from the oil fund to stimulate business so that they could have kept in the workplace, we wouldn't have had that loss. It would have been pure net right away. Now people go free, companies have flagged out, and businesses are shut down. You're so much harder it's going to be to rebuild it now. The centre party has wanted to follow that strategy, there's no doubt that it's what business wants. The worst thing is that the interest rate policy has become what it has become, that the krone price has been allowed to develop, and that the government has refused to intervene with the Bank of Norway. I believe that the Bank of Norway has now learned, and that we are going to have a different policy in the future, but I think it is difficult to have such a low price increase. The important thing is to have a stable rate of exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e964	The centre batch proposes increased alcohol charges. They applaud increased tobacco taxes and have no proposals to facilitate what is often called baits in the context of border trade. A large part of the border trade is agricultural products. This helps to undermine the customer base of Norwegian producers. Does the Senterpartiet see the border trade as a problem for Norwegian agriculture, or does they believe that it has no significance in relation to all the agricultural products imported from both Sweden and Denmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e969	All countries are concerned about their border trade, they are the Swedes, and they are the Danes. The Swedish Prime Minister was in Norway and said that it is an unfortunate situation that we are now competing to have the lowest possible alcohol charge. It has many unfortunate effects. That's what we put the most emphasis on when we want the alcohol charges that were before Bondevik took over. That's who we stick to, and we do that because we think there'll be less alcohol consumption and less health damage from it. We're losing on the border trade. We could have kept the rules for private imports of meat and other goods that we had a year back. The Progress Party wanted to support the Government, so that we are now allowed to bring much more across the border. Obviously, it stimulates people to travel. They earn more on each trip when they can bring more. The Progress Party has contributed to the levels of increased border trade, to the loss of jobs and to the loss of revenue by the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e976	The central party is a high-flag party, often together with SV, that we are sceptical about the free flow of international capital, because this can help push the level of taxation around, drive money into tax havens, and thus limit the possibilities of political control, elected people, democratic control. The most international of all industries is shipping. It is also one of the strongest lobbyists in Norway. What makes the Senter Party think the shipowners are such a special and vulnerable group in society that they deserve to be taxed, as the Center Party goes into? What is the Central Party doing to contribute to an international struggle for the taxation of shipowners, and is the Center Party actively involved in such a struggle? And finally, is it so that the Center Party still receives money from the Shipowner's Federation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e983	We do not receive money from the Swedish Shipowners' Association, nor from any other trade organisations. We are happy with shipping, including: because it is part of an important food cluster. We are happy in the jobs that the seafarers have, and we absolutely want us to continue to have them. We haven't given any tax offices to the shipowners, but the shipping companies we've made it easy for. Today, it does not appear to be easier in Norway than it is in other countries. Here is also one of those areas where competition between countries turns out to be between countries, and this may be unfortunate competition. We want stable conditions for the shipping companies and for the others who belong to this cluster, for example. The shipbuilding industry, and we have done so. This time we mourn, among other things. for the implementation of the net pay scheme promised by the Storting to seafarers. We are also going to be offensive in relation to the notification of Norwegian shipping and Norwegian maritime industries that hopefully come from the Government soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e992	The municipalities are given approx. $6 billion more in 2004 than this year. Many are free incomes. But the Center Party is still clearly concerned about many and many things. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party have fought together in the Central Government for a better municipal economy. It was not easy. There are, of course, economic conditions. It's a shame to say that, but the municipalities' profit from the Center Party's Queseth Haarstad or Enoksen in the Municipal Council was rather modest. Well, I don't criticize! It was a joint project, the financial framework was tough, and they are still. But the co-operation government has delivered, and with the budget agreement, we're adding $6 billion more to the municipalities. It's historically tall. A government has never given rise to any major increases in local government. In addition, the drop in interest rates means a huge billion-dollar handover to municipalities. I thought the Center party was busy with the local authorities' situation, but where does the cheer make it? The depressive pessimism I experience from here, I don't understand. Where does the jubilee make it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e999	The centre party is concerned because the rapporteurs around say that the situation is as it is. 124 of them were here yesterday and said they needed more money than the 2 billion kroner that the Workers' Party provided. And where is the Government going? Who is that they're in contact with, when they thought it was going to decrease by 2 billion kroner compared to what the Greatness decided in ours? The cost side has grown so much, that's what's the problem. That's what's the problem for those who work in the municipal sector, and that's what's the problem for those who need services. Then we hear that Erna Solberg says that it was actually a bit of a shame that extra money came in, because then it goes slower with the conversion in the municipalities. We have to convert the municipalities so that they can jump faster and provide more efficient services. So I could have thought about asking back: is Apelthun Selling agreeing with Erna Solberg that there is a problem that extra 2 billion kroner came to the municipalities? I do not believe that the rapporteurs from the Christian People's Party, of whom there is a part, dislike it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1006	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1009	The State budget shall ensure that it is directed in the right direction. The 2004 budget does so. It is a budget for more jobs, for well-being and innovation. The left is well satisfied with the profile of the Government's budget. It has a clear focus, with record high levels of commitment to public transport, education, research, environment and culture, local economy, business development and the fight against poverty both at home and abroad. The budget provides for a responsible use of oil money. The profile of the Government's budget is not biased in the agreement with the Workers' Party. The additions are non-problematic, but not all of the containment proposals are left-hand priorities. I want to pay tribute to the Workers' Party for taking co-responsibility. It wasn't the game and the play of chaos that we've had too often in recent years. That someone is very disappointed that there was no drama until the last interview, may be. I think the way our budget management has been handled in this fall is the way our clients – Norway’s inhabitants – want. There may always be temptations to spend more money for a number of good purposes, but the cost of increasing interest rates and job losses is too high a price to pay. We have led a tight fiscal policy, not because we lack good purpose to spend money on, but because a tight government budget is the most important measure to secure and create jobs and a strong, competitive business throughout Norway. The tight budget has facilitated a fall in interest rates. Nothing seems more unsocial than high interest rates. Private individuals, municipalities, businesses and not least young people who are to be established for the first time will be affected. Our discipline has resulted in interest rates falling by 4.5 pst. and the Norwegian krona has weaned with a total of 12 pst. The left is proud that the Government delivers historical commitment to public transport, and that we are once again receiving a budget with a strong commitment to environmental action, climate and alternative, renewable energy. The tax exemption for hydrogen cars, as we have today for electric cars, will be able to make Norway a transitional country in zero emission technology based on hydrogen. The left is pleased that a group of maggots are behind this kind of forward-looking environmental effort. Research provides ground for value creation and new workplaces. It is therefore gratifying that the research will be strengthened by 1.1 billion next year's government budget. In the local election campaign this year, the left-wing strengthening of local democracy had as its main slogan. We mean that the municipalities are too much driven from Stortinget by an increasing number of statutory tasks and not least by ear-marked appeals. The left promised more money to the municipalities. In the government's budget proposal, there was an increase of 3 billion to the municipalities. That the budget agreement with the Labour Party added 2.2 billion, was not met with great protests from the Left. The current old-age pension is not sustainable. There is a need for far-reaching changes if, in the future, we are to be able to balance good welfare arrangements for all with the state's ability to cover its costs. The conversion that comes is important to ensure the welfare state of our children and grandchildren. Today, the population is under pressure. Expenditure has been calculated to double over the next 30 to 40 years. The growth of the population’s spending takes a large part of the annual growth of the economy and makes it difficult to find the necessary resources for other priority tasks. Oil incomes don't last forever, and we're getting fewer and fewer working for each pensioner. The longer we wait, the more expensive a conversion will be. Yesterday it was the international day against power. The fight against violence and violence is not won by party speakers and media headlines, but by systematic work to stop the power and to bring about a change in attitudes among the people most and in the auxiliaries. The government has developed two action plans – one to eliminate women and one to fight trafficking in women and children. Efforts to help our drug addicts are increasing, as one reorganizes the facility to improve the quality of life and the worth of all those who are currently struggling with major drug problems. Left thinks helping those who have the least, for a better life, is more important than moving money between the great majority who already live in material wealth. The left will have a good environmental policy, good conditions for entrepreneurs and innovation in business and increase well-being for those who are the hardest. That's the result that counts. During 2004, we will discuss two major reforms, both the pension reform and the tax reform. I hope that we will then be able to get the most focus on its content and less on tactical positioning before the next big shot.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1037	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1040	In the last year, we have witnessed an extensive hospital debate, partly on the basis of a number of proposals for the reorganisation of the maternity wards, emergency services and local hospitals, and partly on the basis of large deficits and under-coverage in health businesses. In the light of this, the Workers' Party proposed to increase the funding of health enterprises by NOK 1 billion. We didn't get this all the time, but we got a half impact, so now the health care companies are boosted by 500 million. kr. Has the representative Vihhodde any opinion on how such a strengthening of health businesses should be used, and would like to have exemplified with her own health region, Health West, where there have also been quite major discussions on restructuring?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1045	The left was basically against the health reform we received, and the state was to take over hospitals. We actually mean that the state might have managed to control both the economy and hospitals better than what the state now seems to be doing. Our government has taken a lot of action to control the economy, to put in place efficiency and reorganization and to make better use of the resources we have today. I'm happy with the increase of 0.5 billion that we've made in the budget deal. But I think we have to go in and look at the whole way we're financing hospitals. I'm not particularly happy that everyone now comes to the Storting to try to get more money out of us, and there's going to be huge media headlines, instead, as it was before, that it's the county councils that stand for this. They did it in a really good way – it was popular people who were close to hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1055	The 2004 draft budget contains many unfortunate proposals, which may appear small, but which will have a significant impact on those in debt. One of these suggestions is to increase the so-called Svalbard tax from 6 to 8 percentage points. This represents a tax gain of 33.3 pst. Of course, this tax sharpening will make it less attractive to search for work at Svalbard. It is also likely to result in a pressure on the wage costs of the enterprises established in Svalbard, which in turn will lead to poorer wages and also make it difficult to maintain a high level of activity at Svalbard. I have the following questions: Can the representative Vihovde explain why it is necessary and likely to increase the Svalbard tax by 33.3 pst?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1062	Let me first start by saying that I have actually been to Svalbard. I've seen an exciting society with a lot of activity in research, education, tourism, and I don't believe that with an increase in taxes it'll be less attractive to bust on Svalbard for a few years. I believe that the Svalbard community is facing far greater challenges than that – I believe it is facing major challenges when it comes to the environment. One has to balance an increase in tourism on Svalbard against taking environmental considerations, and one has to balance increased shipping traffic, increase the deployment of coal, and take environmental considerations. So I have to say that I don't think it's going to be the huge disaster of neither Svalbard nor the Kingdom if the people who work up there get a little tax on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1067	I'm going to concentrate on a part of the country that May Britt Vihov knew better than Svalbard. Although we are now discussing a budget on which there have been some changes in the form of the budgetary agreement with the Labour Party, it must be allowed to dwell a little on the original proposal presented by the Government. In that proposal, there were many unsocial cuts, broken down into a number of small items. Two of them were cut in United World College in Fjaler and Hookide Vocational School in Bergen. They have in common that they stand for things that I think both May Britt Vihovde and I think are important. In Fjaler, international solidarity is on the agenda. Croked Vocational school is a school that ensures that people who are out of work because of illness, drug problems and other things get a way back – expenditure on income acquisition for the state. Nevertheless, the government is proposing to cut these appropriations, so that the two schools will have to be laid down. Is May Britt Who agreed with me that having been in favour of proposing such cuts is very embarrassing for an allegedly social liberal party like the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1072	In the left we actually think that the biggest challenge we are facing today is to reduce the number of unemployed people and get more people to work – several of those who today feel useless, who want to participate and help to create well-being. The more we get to work, the more we can bet on the welfare tasks. Its more new jobs we can create, the more we can invest in well-being. When you have it as your main goal, and I have seen it so that the fight against unemployment and to secure well-being is also the main goal of the Socialist Left Party, you have to make some tough priorities. There are a lot of the priorities that are in the original budget, and that are in the budget agreement, which probably aren't the first choice for the left, but one has to make these tough choices. They dare take the Left, and if the Socialist Left approaches the government offices, they must also be involved in making such tough priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1077	The left is calling itself the environmental party – we have heard that today too. The left appears to be the party that is occupied by small businesses and it seems very important that people have jobs. However, with the conversion of the employer’s fee to which it is now being added, as well as rigid transport aid schemes, many rural export companies will have major problems. They fall, as you know, outside of the so-called agreement between all the parties in the Stortinget. For example, I can. mention both Gausdal Use and Both Use. Then it's transportation. The left has the minister there and he has to bet on environmentally friendly traffic. There will be double tracks to Asker, most of the collective effort will go to the cities. There is nothing wrong with that, but large parts of the country remain. What's the Left's thinking about it? They have not placed any emphasis on ensuring public transport in the rest of the country, and if we intend to use a passenger car, road appropriations must be made. So my question is, is this really a signal from the Left that it's impractical that people should work and live in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1084	Let me start with the last thing that goes on the roadways. The left has a seat in government with the Central Party, and there are several that have been involved: What did the Center Party do when they were in government? Left has been busy with path permissions. We fought to get more funds to go, and we have done that. We've also managed to get bigger promises on the way in the budget deal with the Labour Party. Then we want to use collective resources where the need is greater, where there are the greatest environmental challenges, in the central areas. If we can't turn these investments, we won't be able to get road investment in District Norway either. So back to what goes on with the differentiated employer fee. Well, it's actually like there's commercial aid, there's a lot of action that's lying there, that's going to cover up in the areas where there's no transport support. At the same time, however, a bet on entrepreneurs, one must bet on research, one must bet on creating new jobs also in District Norway. It is the left-wing concern of, in conversion to agriculture and by investing in the small and medium-sized enterprises, the entrepreneurs, all who live in District Norway who actually want to create their own jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1091	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1094	In this financial debate I want to talk about family security. As a value-conservative center party, we believe that the family can provide the individual with security at all stages of life. But then the public must facilitate the strengthening of the family. The Coastal Party will promote a fiscal policy that will enable the family and individuals to cope. The most effective support for the family will be to reduce taxes on necessities such as housing, work and food. Voluntary organisations are also a good support for communities and families. The coastal party wishes to non-discrimination between non-governmental organisations as regards the donor’s ability to deduct tax on the gift. The coastal area emphasises that the dwelling is the closest framework to the family. A safest housing situation will therefore benefit the entire community both economically and socially. In addition, housing investments will benefit the local construction industry. The coastal party is taking a great deal of distance from the claims that it is a bad social economy to motivate people to invest in owner-occupied housing. The coastal party believes that it is initially safer to own than to rent a dwelling. As a self-owner, you are more motivated to take care of the dwelling, and you get training in managing property. So we want to get the best chance of owning our own home. In Norway, we have a particularly high proportion of self-owners. The Coastal Party wants us to remain a different country in this area. In order to facilitate access to the housing market, we propose that the purchase of housing by persons under the age of 30 be exempted from the document fee. It is an international trend to increase housing taxes. The Skauge committee is proposing the same thing. The coastal party will counter this trend, both in terms of purchase, operation and inheritance of housing. We will stress that the maintenance and operation of owner-occupied dwellings is expensive. Payment of interest and mortgage payments can also be a heavy burden on many families. Therefore, it is important that the public does not give housing owners an extra burden through house taxes. In particular, the tax on the benefit of owner-occupied dwellings is incomprehensible. The Coastal Party proposes to increase the deduction to NOK 200000. Norway is an important global food producer. We believe that Norway, in addition to the fishing industry, should have a viable agricultural industry that can produce healthy food and ensure preparedness. In order to provide people with the most cheap Norwegian food, the Coastal Party will liquidate the food tax. For 2004, we propose that the food tax should be halved. Full employment is a prerequisite for most families to obtain the necessary income through work. The Norwegian salary level is very high in the international context. In order to motivate private business and the public to hire more people, we need to reduce the costs associated with the labour force. The Coastal Party will contribute to the wage settlement by, inter alia: to raise the minimum deduction in crowns and raise the seafarer’s deduction from NOK 70000 to NOK 100000. Furthermore, we propose to reduce the employer’s fee. This is particularly important in order to reduce the adverse effects of the EEA requirements on the winding-up of the system of differentiated employer charges. The coastal party believes that the special nature of fisheries must be taken into account when designing the tax system. The fluctuations in income and income are largely natural. Therefore, economic operators should be able to make fund provisions in good time to build up equity and reserves to meet bad times. The coastal party proposes to increase the depreciation rate. As a value-conservative center party, we want tax relief for the purpose we want to promote, and a tightening of things we want to limit. For example, we pray. The government is considering imposing an investment tax on new office buildings in Oslo. Today, the capital has a million square feet of vacant office space. At the same time, a number of new office palaces are planned in different parts of the city. This is the wrong use of society's resources, leading to even greater pressures on Oslo and the depopulation of Norwegian towns. The Coastal Party will strengthen the municipal economy so that municipalities are better able to carry out statutory tasks. We have also proposed increasing the appropriations for hospitals. In a situation of high unemployment, we believe that it is appropriate to spend more money in Norway. The Coastal Party will strengthen the Rescue Service and Coast Guard. And we think it's particularly worrying that the other parties are considering putting down the Joint Board of Competences of the Fisheries Industry. The welfare of fishermen must be maintained. This also applies to the safety training of fishermen. Today, the Norwegian oil fund is under threat from many sides. The dollar is falling, and many of the securities are insecure. It's dangerous to rely one-sidedly on one currency. It is dangerous to place as much money on stock exchanges as can fall overnight. The State Reserve Fund, worth 50 million. kr, was created in 1904 and closed in 1923. Then the values were halved. [[The President clubs.]] What will happen to the oil fund we have today? I'm recording the president's clubs, and I'm taking up the Coastal Party proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1128	The representative Steinar Bastisen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1133	The representative of Bastisen shall be in favour of its continuing involvement in the Norwegian fisheries sector. But I'm not getting this all the way to rhyme with his action, because the Coastal Party, in its main comments, actually has as one of its main points that Norway has to cancel the EEA Agreement. And that Norway will be declared out of Schengen cooperation, goes again like a red thread. Does not the representative of Bastesen see the burden that he thus imposes on Norwegian fishing industry in its main market? Does not the representative of Bastesen and the Coastal Party see what will happen to the Norwegian industry in its main market, if the Coastal Party in the real world would get its proposals lifted? This is the purest winding-up policy for what is still the carrybar along our coast throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1138	I thank you for the line. Not everyone's taking a line on me. Until we propose to wind up the EEA agreement: one would almost think that the representative Ivar Kristiansen speaks against better knowledge – but perhaps he doesn't know better? So we have a trade agreement. It's not broken up. The EEA Agreement has been added to the trade agreement, so I would recommend the representative of Kristiansen to look at the free trade agreement as an element of proposing the termination of the EEA Agreement. I believe that most people in this Chamber are not aware that we have a free trade agreement. Something is wrong when you have to put a lid on a vessel with fish and then drive it out and hang the fish on the gel. Then there is not much lid. Well, that's what it's all about. It's what it's all about. But you have to have a lid on the vessel to get the fish to gel. Then it's wrong, and it's the EEA Agreement that decides. I hope the representative Kristiansen understands this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1144	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1147	The Labour Party and the government parties reached an agreement on the government budget for next year. The Labour Party did not enter into a budgetary settlement because it was overall for us to avoid a government crisis. If the government parties had been less responsive, we were prepared for a break, with the consequences it could have. The Labour Party made budgetary settlements because we achieved important political results that will mean a lot to people's everyday lives. In addition, we contributed to smaller games and uncertainties in Norwegian policy, and we all believe that this is what we are doing. That's why I want to commend the Government for stretching far to reach agreement. It was necessary for the Government to show great satisfaction, so that the Workers' Party could take advantage of its important political demands. We achieved increased efforts to combat unemployment; we achieved significantly better opportunities for municipalities to provide good services in schools and care for the elderly. And we got to the start of a historical school reform, with more and better education for the youngest students. In addition, we had an impact on the reduction of health care components in relation to the government’s proposal and improvement in the hospital economy, which will provide treatment for several patients. In addition, we achieved an impact in relation to important requirements regarding the safety of workers in the job. We got the government to withdraw the proposal for temporary employment. We have improved the proposals in the law on permitting and secured a contractual pension. It has not happened until the Workers' Party enters into a budgetary settlement with a Right-Maintained Government. But it is nothing new that the Workers' Party is concerned with political results. We made a deal with the Government because we succeeded in stopping the right turn in many important areas of society. The Semi-Declaration promises of temporary employment and tax relief over Community solutions are not followed up in 2004. That's good. In politics, there are results that count. Actual decisions that improve people's reality are what the voters measure the politicians after. The Labour Party has had an impact of NOK 5 billion on the actual change in the budget. For us, real billions mean more than TV billions. The Bondevik Government's proposal for the State budget meant a too weak increase in the income of municipalities. The working party was able to take advantage of more than a doubling of the increase in the free income of municipalities, from DKK 1.8 billion to NOK 4 billion. It does not mean gold and green forests in Norwegian municipalities, but it still means significant improvement for many inhabitants. In Oslo, I noticed that the 220 million. kr, which the municipality gets extra thanks to the agreement with the Workers' Party, means that there is no proposal from the City Council to cut municipal additional pensions, to cut school and public baths. I have also not seen a single Right-Rapporteur who will return money to the Treasury with the message: enough is enough, here in my municipality we will try to get more for the money. The right-wing rapporteurs are also pleased with the money they get from the state. The government's budget proposal did not involve any investment in school, rather on the contrary. A little money for the municipalities would mean less education, more students in the classes and the dismissal of teachers in many places. That is why I am pleased that the Workers' Party received an extra charge of NOK 1 billion for refurbishment of school buildings, more money for municipalities, so that there may be more sharing hours, more education and more teachers in relation to the number of students. In addition, money was provided to expand the hours in primary school. This gives us more and better education than the government provided in its budget. This agreement also means that the fight against growing unemployment is more serious. There will now be greater efforts to create new jobs, and much more unemployed people will be offered training and qualification to help them get to work. There's more to research and development, it's more to the creation of new jobs. In the government’s proposal for a government budget, the tax ceiling on medicaments and medical visits was increased sharply, to NOK 2 500. This was totally unacceptable for the Workers' Party, and we are therefore pleased that through the agreement we managed to reduce the self-interest stake by nearly NOK 1000. The working party is satisfied with it, many patients are satisfied with it, and I am also sure that not least in the Christian People's Party you are happy to avoid defending a self-interest of NOK 2 500, over NOK 1000 more than now. In addition, hospitals receive increased appropriations and several patients can be treated. The agreement with the Labour Party on the budget for next year does not change the parliamentary position of the Bondevik government. The Labour Party has never been, is not and will never be the parliamentary basis or basis of this government. It was the party of progress that imprisoned the government of Bondevik. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have jointly supported the Government's political basis by voting for the Government Declaration. The government’s political programme is set out in the Sem Declaration. It is only because the Government has abandoned its policy programme in important areas that it has been possible to reach agreement with the Labour Party. The Workers' Party will never vote on the Right Policy set out in the Sem Declaration. If the Government intends to implement the promises contained in this declaration, it must go to the Advance Party. If, on the other hand, the Government is willing to go far enough to leave its own political base, it is possible to enter into new agreements with the Workers' Party. For us, it is essential that we do everything we can in the fight against unemployment, that we do everything we can to ensure a good school, a good care for the elderly and social justice in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1173	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1176	A key prerequisite for a budgetary settlement at all with the Workers' Party was for the Right to remove its proposals for fiscal tightening. The Labour Party's alternative would provide a tax shock in this country that would put jobs and employment at risk. Jens Stoltenberg proposes in his budget, inter alia: the following: to reintroduce double taxation, to remove the stock discount again, to increase the top tax – which is otherwise a breach of the «security» of the Workers' Party in the 2001 elections – and to continue with the electricity tax. In total, this represents NOK 5 billion. Can the representative Stoltenberg tell me what this message is in relation to what we all agree on, namely trying to reduce unemployment in this country and create new jobs? Does he really think that this would have such an effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1185	With our 2004 plan, the tax level in 2004 would be 15 billion kroner lower than the tax in 2001. It can't be particularly shocking that we have 15 billion lower tax revenues than what we probably lived with in 2001. There's no tax shock. But what the Workers' Party has proposed is a fairer tax system, where those who have a lot contribute something more, among other things. by engaging in the taxation of dividends on shares, as proposed by the Skauge Committee and as now introduced in Finland. We did so, among other things. in order to avoid an increase in self-interest to NOK 2 500 in the fields of health and medicine, including: to ensure that we follow up promises from the election campaign on refurbishment of school buildings, more lessons and better education in primary school, and to avoid that the Right Town Council in Bergen and Oslo had to carry out a wide range of unsocial cuts. So we simply think it's more important than lower taxes for those who have the most from before.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1190	First of all, I would like to welcome Jens Stoltenberg to the club of those who are supporting a budget from the government parties, which he swore a year ago that he would never do. So to the social profile. The Progress Party stopped any increase in the general ownership and ownership. Jens Stoltenberg and the Arbeiderpartiet have now ensured an increase in the balances of 23 p.m. this year, and he ensures an increase in the ownership stake of 14 p.m. The working party also ensures that companies have to pay wages during the leave, not for three days, but for ten days, which exacerbates the situation for a very large number of them. I have declared that the Progress Party no longer considers itself to be part of the Government's basis. Is it now considered that the Workers' Party has taken over the large overall agreement covering all policy areas? And does the Labour Party leader acknowledge that when we get out in winter and spring 2005, it will be the Workers' Party that also has a share of responsibility for the situation in the care of the elderly, the health care system, the Norwegian school and for other problem areas in the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1199	The big difference in the agreement of the Progress Party with the Government last year and our agreement this year is that I am willing to defend the content of the agreement we are now making, while I believe that there was a long series of completely irresponsible cuts in the proposals that the Progress Party voted for last year, among other things. I went from NOK 0 to NOK 1 300 in favor of medicines on the blue prescription for hundreds of thousands of pensioners, among other things. by cutting the unemployment rate dramatically, including, inter alia: the fact that no significant effort has been made on the municipalities in relation to school and care for the elderly. I believe that the content of the agreement we have now is significantly better than the content of the agreement that Carl I. Hagen achieved last year. And that's the political difference. Yes, the Labour Party is taking co-responsibility because we are now voting in favour of a budget settlement subsidiary. But what we take joint responsibility for is that we have made sure that the increase in the free income of municipalities more than double, so that it is easier to avoid cuts in the care of the elderly and easier to avoid cuts in school. We have our primary budget, which we think is even better, but we actually think it's important to get some decent billions and not just TV billions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1206	It has well begun to become an exercise Stortinget has become used to, that immediately after you have made a settlement, you take a distance from the one you are making a settlement with. We have now been familiar with this for two years. I am so glad that Stoltenberg acknowledges the content, but he does not acknowledge the fact that this can actually mean. Because what that means is that you've rocked the government. And what that means, is that you probably also have to make a little bit of a mistake to make a deal that concerns the revenue and expenditure of the State budget for 2004. My question would then be, because Jens Stoltenberg is generally concerned that parties should have a greater degree of firmness, as he himself has put it: does it mean that for 2004 we can expect the Government to have a firm follow-up in the Workers' Party, or is the Workers' Party free to enter into a settlement or to enter into an agreement with other parties that have a significant cost? Or is it also in this that the Workers' Party now implicitly has to support the Government's proposals in the revised national budget, which will, of course, be part of the 2004 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1213	In my opening post I said the following: ‘The working party has never been, is not and will never be the parliamentary basis or basis of this government’. That's a slightly complicated way of saying that we're not going to have a regular follow-up with Per-Christian Foss and Kjell Magne Bondevik. We will never have any permanent cooperation with a Right-dominated government. Because the government has left its promises in the Sem Declaration of choosing tax incentives rather than spending time in school and care for the elderly, and because it left its ideological proposals that more people would stand without permanent jobs, we were willing to make a compromise with them on this budget. Our problem is that those we want to keep going, either don't want to keep going with us or don't give us a majority. What we're looking for is a firm follow-up to someone who can give us a majority, and the best contribution to that is that the Labour Party is getting bigger in the 2005 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1223	I don't think I can meet the representative Stoltenberg's last wish for permanent follow-up either. On the other hand, I would like to praise the Labour Party for reaching far to arrive at a settlement. At the same time, I note that the budget that the Labour Party will vote primarily for here in the Chamber is something quite different from what I expressed joy over – a joy that has been referred to many times today. I have to say that it is better to think for joy than too many other things. That being said, I must also say to the representative Jens Stoltenberg: the working party has in its alternative budget put hard cuts in cash, in the rewards of the insulars, in addition when it owes support to the course of life, likeins when it owes tax credits to voluntary organisations. These are important things for the Christian People's Party in our fight against the A4 society and for a Christian-democratic value-based policy. It seems pointless when the representative Stoltenberg repeatedly invites us to cooperate, but at the same time frames us in some of our core areas. In one area, they have turned around, and it's in proportion to the family message when it comes to a life course. It could be symbolic. Will the Workers' Party also turn to the other areas that I have picked up here?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1231	I'm absolutely sure that if Jon Lilletun and I had a steady follow-up, it would be really nice all the time. I think Jon Lilletun does, too. It must be possible to have primary positions of disagreement with other parties and yet to understand that cooperation is in place. For example, the Christian People’s Party is now in government with the Right, which every year when it was in opposition cut many billion dollars in Norwegian aid. They cut DKK 5–6 billion in the sick pay system – more than any other party ever ventured to propose – and they cut significantly in district policy and agricultural support. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party can sit in government with the Right, even though in many areas they had dramatic visions. So cooperating means that parties that have different positions initially come together on some common issues where they can agree. It's strange with this deal, because normally there's a deal going on so that two parties meet and negotiate together to something in the middle. Here we have experienced that the Christian People's Party, at least Jon Lilletun, believes that they were there all the time and are very happy that the Government has moved your Lilletun wanted the budget to end. That's why the Christian People's Party and Lilletun are as happy as they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1238	I would like to congratulate the Labour Party on the conciliation. It was probably good for the Workers' Party's soul that there was no crisis mood in the harvest. It may also be interesting for the big business that both the representatives of the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party today have been so pleased with the agreement that has been concluded. Now, the Christian People's Party is not really engaged in regular follow-up, but the Christian People's Party believes in marriage, so there might be a hope for the Workers' Party in the future. I also believe that the Labour Party has put the budget in the right direction. I think that's important. One has improved the municipal economy from a very poor point of view. But one should be careful in the hall today to create too much hope. When we talk about an increase of NOK 6 billion, let me remind you that almost NOK 3 billion of tax losses for municipalities have to be included in the accounts. I think it's the uprising that someone's going to face, among other things. by the rapporteurs of the Labour Party, is a sign of a different perception of reality and of something more profound and long-term than the budget of the year and next year. My challenge to Stoltenberg is whether he will be involved in something that, in the long term, can provide better conditions for municipalities in relation to the debt situation, in relation to a long-term escalation plan to fully finance reforms, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1245	The representative Arnstad is quite right that the municipal structure we are about to adopt does not solve all the problems in Norwegian municipalities. On the contrary. There's going to be a lot of problems left over. It is both about providing municipalities with more money and about ensuring that municipalities spend their money better, and about renewing the public sector – both of which are needed. However, the municipal structure we adopt is significantly better than the municipal layout of the Centre Party was responsible for all the years in which they were in government. So in relation to what the Central Party has previously defended, this is a clear improvement. Many rapporteurs should be pleased about that. I see that in municipalities where the budget proposals were on the table – it was about school closures, it was about removing the night shift at the hospital, it was about quitting teachers, or like in Oslo, where the Progress Party had proposed to cut the municipal supplementary pension for many pensioners – is what is now coming from extra money, enough to remove the cuts. And for those people who now get better, this is a significant improvement. The Labour Party is always ready to discuss long-term measures to improve the economy of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1250	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1253	When I presented the government's budget proposal a month and a half ago, I invited the Stortingen to cooperate on a budget for jobs, for well-being and for renewal. I am pleased today that the Government has had a positive impact on the broad lines of its policy through a budgetary settlement with the Workers' Party. I would like to commend the negotiating parties here in Stortinget for having successfully conducted the budgetary negotiations. By presenting its alternative budgets before the negotiations, the opposition has become clear. However, it has not prevented a constructive process, with the will and ability to find solutions. The government’s economic policy brings results. In one year the interest rate has fallen from 7 pst. up to 2.5 pst. The krone course has weakened by more than 10 pst. The budget for next year will enable interest rates and interest rates to be at a level that does not destroy our competitiveness. Through such a comprehensive and responsible policy, we contribute to securing and creating jobs. The budget is also focused on welfare. In particular, I would like to stress that the Government has received a majority for the largest increase in appropriations for psychiatry ever. Few go on demonstration trains, few stand on the barricades of the psychiatry. But we cannot let the fate of individuals go unnoticed even if the collective attention is small. The 2004 budget is a budget for renewal. The public sector is reviewed to make better use of resources. The government is now being reformed by the VAT system. The VAT rules will no longer affect whether it pays to purchase services from private individuals, to perform them in cooperation between municipalities or to provide services to municipalities themselves. The government also receives a majority for a strong commitment to research. We are implementing reforms that will improve the quality of education at all levels, with particular emphasis on quality reform in higher education. The Norwegian economy is now characterised by new growth and new optimism. We no longer hear alerts about flagging out. There is more production and more enterprises have plans for new investments. After the presentation of the budget, new information points towards confirming and partly strengthening these positive signs. The strong growth in private consumption has continued. From the second quarter to the third quarter of this year, the figures indicate an increase in production in industry of around 2 pst. This increase is particularly evident in enterprises that compete with the rest of the world. Increased exports of traditional products in October confirm the view that competitive sectors are now also experiencing better times. In the budget, we assumed that the labour market would improve during the winter. There are now signs that the increase in unemployment is about to stop. The employment has taken something up. One thing that has received a lot of attention in District Norway is, of course, the conversion of the differentiated employer's fee. This system is the most accurate and least bureaucratic district policy tool we have. That's why the government has given priority to fighting for today's system. When it became clear that this could not be continued in its present form, the Government intensified its efforts to come up with good alternative solutions and a soft transition. On 14 November I asked the ESA to postpone amendments until 1 July 2004. I have stressed that an application for deferral had to await ESA’s decision on the transitional arrangements, so that this decision could be at the bottom of the decision as a security. A new application could otherwise interfere with ESA’s treatment of the present notification, i.e. the three-year transitional notification. In its reply of 21 November, ESA states that they cannot give a preliminary opinion on the final decision, but shows that the risk of obtaining approval is minimal. This is as far as ESA can formally go in refusing now. Without an approval, I believe that it is not appropriate to implement the suspension. It would be contrary to Norwegian law and the EEA Agreement to grant such aid without prior authorisation by ESA. Moreover, it would be unwise to give business in the areas of false hopes. A negative conclusion will lead to a decision by ESA on the repayment of individual undertakings. A comprehensive committee further requests the Government to draw up a legislative proposal which will, as far as possible, continue to apply a graduated fee to industries or major parts of industries which are not in competition with other enterprises in the EEA country. In the public debate, such an alternative has been highlighted, and the idea has been that more businesses can then drop the highest rate, i.e. the normal rate for the rest of the country. The government is set to apply for a notified scheme that distinguishes industries, or parts of industries. The Government therefore intends to submit a concrete proposal for notification and an assessment of the effects of such a tax decision within the time limit set by the Stortinget. Although the Norwegian economy is now characterised by new optimism, we cannot settle for it. We still have to stick to a budgetary policy that does not help to increase the pressure on interest and on the dollar. At the same time, it is important that the social partners maintain moderate wage settlements. Increasingly higher wage growth than in competitors will make production in Norway too expensive. It will send Norwegian jobs out of the country. The government therefore places emphasis on cooperation in income policy. It is worrying that several parties in this Chamber are calling for a policy that will exacerbate the conditions of Norwegian business. The Socialist Left wants both to increase taxes and to use more oil money. I have an ideological disagreement with such a policy, because it will reduce the individual's freedom of choice by managing more of his own income over public budgets. In addition, it sends the bill for increased public expenditure today to future generations, by eating from the pension fund, as the Petroleum Fund in practice does. Moreover, such use of money is anti-commercial, by increasing the risk of a strangely high level of interest. Increased taxes will make job creation more expensive in Norway. When we know that the increase in unemployment is cost-effective, it's strange that you can see that increasing the costs for businesses is going to improve the situation. I am pleased that the Workers' Party will vote in a subsidiary way for an almost unchanged level of taxation next year. In this way, the Workers' Party does not get through its original proposal to increase taxes on enterprises and employees. In its alternative state budget, the lot offered to break its own election pledge from 2001, even issued as a ‘sovereign security’. There it was that the top tax was to be paid and price adjusted. The working party provided for the continuation of the financial limits from 2003 to 2004. By means of the budgetary agreement, the Workers' Party is now given the opportunity to fulfil its electoral commitments. The Progress Party has on its side committed itself to spending even more of the future's pensions than anyone else in Stortinget. The party will report in my opinion out of economic reality if they believe that it will not contribute to increased interest rates. I have understood that the Chairman of the Advance Party is very pleased that he does not take responsibility. Now the party leader can sit in TV debates and ‘use the money several times’, as – according to him – you can do in opposition. It's obvious that some people are happy not to have any influence. The government – for its part – takes responsibility. We take responsibility for a policy that has helped to bring down interest rates and exchange rates, which reduce taxes, and which helps to secure and create jobs. We're taking responsibility for a policy that increases economic growth, that makes the unemployment slow down, and then it goes down. We take responsibility for a policy that prioritises well-being and that improves the efforts of those who need it the most. And we take responsibility for renewing Norway, so that we are able to meet tomorrow's challenges – in an international knowledge-based economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1306	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1309	If the finance minister had taken the time to read the Workers' Party's draft budget, he had also seen that the point of entry for the top tax is price and pay adjusted by our side. Then to my main question. The Minister of Finance almost freshly reported the Norwegian economy in the Evening Post today. That's good if that's the case. We're going to have hope of that. But we're facing major structural transformations. One of the points in the budget agreement refers, inter alia, to: Årdal and Høyanger, the heavy, big industrial sites. The Minister of Finance said that the Government is also taking responsibility in this area, and I would like to ask: What responsibility does the Minister of Finance take for these two industrial sites? Several others are likely to find themselves in a difficult situation. What tools will the Minister of Finance use for these industrial sites to be life-created in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1318	For the sake of order, the government is adjusting the entry point for the top tax. Wages and salaries are known to be slightly higher than current price developments, to say the least. It is gratifying that the Workers' Party is taking this into account for itself, but this is the Government's proposal, for which they are now subsidising. It's not less joyous for that reason. We are happy to meet the Workers' Party's electoral commitments – in this area. Årdal and Høyanger are part of the budget agreement, in which we declare that we should contribute the necessary instruments, as well as our own efforts. But I have to say, as I have said in public debates in the past, that Norsk Hydro has the primary responsibility for the conversion to which they themselves contribute. It has great consequences in a small community. Now you have time to prepare, and I expect Hydro to come up with the necessary measures. The Government will then assess whether, in addition to this, it is necessary to use the existing instruments, including: through the SND and by other means, to ensure that industrial communities have a good opportunity to change – in line with what has happened elsewhere with the unilateral industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1333	The Progress Party does not consume future pensions. We invest in future value creation, and it's something quite different. And I just want to remind you that in the Advance Party's alternative state budget, the underlying expenditure growth is $12 billion lower than in the government's original budget. My question concerns tax. In Finland, significant tax reductions are now being implemented. The Finnish authorities indicate that the short-term relief will result in a loss of income, but in the long term they will generate increased revenue to the Finnish State. In Norway, we have similar examples. We could have reduced the taxes on alcohol and thus increased the income on alcohol, as we saw from the budget agreement concluded between the Progress Party and the Government last year, the lower the income on alcohol. Similarly, we could have done with the car charges. The opposite was done: the company car tax was set up, the sale of new cars collapsed, and the tax revenue decreased. Why in the world is it not possible for the Right in Government to change the models, so that the tax idea becomes more dynamic than the one that is now used?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1342	Calculation models for the effect of tax changes are not implemented by the ‘vision’ approach. Most people may wish that changes they make do not have progeny effects. It is common for the Ministry of Finance to put a lot of pressure on this and ask the question: Isn't it lower? The fact that you go to professional organisations – to the associations of wine and brandy merchants, or what it is called, or to car manufacturers and car importers – and base their figures, as the Progress Committee has done in its alternative budget, I think it would have been nice. They would of course want to get it down. But I kind of think it's a little bit out of the serious world. To have a professional debate on price elasticity and demand effects of dramatic tax reductions is highly justified. This has been the subject of a public investigation, including: on the initiative of the Progress Party. Some change in the model is now available for review. But it's not like we're going to the sellers in the area and asking to get their numbers. There are slightly different professional assessments that underlie this. I record that many have referred to the Finnish tax conversion. It's interesting. But for the sake of order, I just mention that in the case of the capital tax, it is a conversion to be carried out with effect from 2005. The whole reform is smeared with approx. $5 billion in total tax reliefs. I note with interest that the Labour Party highlights this as positive. It's uplifting – for next year's sake.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1353	One element that is interesting in the Finnish tax conversion is that it now taxes dividends. Finland and Norway were the only countries with no tax on dividends. It will now be over for Finland. This means that Norway is actually the only tax haven left, as the Evening Post correctly described Norway as today. Let me just make one point: for this government – as far as I understand – the Sem Declaration and the objective of tax relief remain firmly established. And if I have understood the Sem statement correctly, it is missing approximately. $10 billion in tax reliefs. Does the Government really think that it is wise to accept tax relief of this magnitude, when one has such great challenges within the area of responsibility of the community? Take school, which has been a major theme through many election campaigns, where most people will see that there are major shortcomings. Take the local economy, which is now going to get NOK 2 billion more through the conciliation. At the same time, most people would say that this is just boring the water, because it actually corresponds to the lost tax income that municipalities have. How is it possible to give priority to tax relief in a situation where municipalities are actually screaming for more public efforts to ensure well-being and where unemployment is actually high? The optimism the Minister of Finance is now talking about is hard to see. In such a situation, how can it be considered that it is right to give priority to tax relief in the interests of well-being? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1363	If you wear a tie in front of your eyes, you don't get an eye on anything – nor does your optimism. But it has been documented by surveys of the Statistical Central Bureau that more business managers now report other expectations in the next year than they did in the past, in a more positive direction. NHO studies among their members are moving in the same direction. And – to say it like that – without me believing, sir. Djupedal is more concerned about this: the OECD has today published a report that even refreshes the Norwegian economy, as it is called in the press headline, but with some concern, for the growth of earnings next year. It's a concern I have to share. I would like to go into the Finnish tax reform. It understands that it is beneficial for large dividends on shares, not so beneficial for small savers in the stock market. It's been criticized for that. But there are interesting elements to pick up from that reform, not least that it also provides a total tax base, as I said, of the order of 5 billion kroner. There is a need to combine tax reform with tax relief. It may be implemented within a model, an overall budget, which also ensures essential welfare considerations. We've been doing that for three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1372	Both the contributions of the Right's fiscal spokesman today and the statements of the Minister of Finance show that a person is obviously very relieved not to talk more to the Advance Party in the fall, and that one has made a settlement that means that one does not have more to do with Carl I. Hagen and his crew. At the same time, one tries to hold back the promise of tax relief, which has gradually become so small in this agreement that it is barely visible from what was promised by the Right before the 2001 elections. There are some interesting questions about what the Right is going to do in the future, and what the Right will choose next time. Now the Right and Government have one year left to fulfill the promise they have made to the voters over 10 billion more dollars in taxes. Has the Right and the Government intended to try to fulfill that promise with the archenemy Progress Party, or with the Workers' Party, which has used the last two years to argue against tax laws? Or can we already conclude that that tax promise has the Right and the Government has put away?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1379	There are two interesting features in this debate on the budget and the budgetary agreement. One is that everyone thinks it is very sad that they have not been allowed to be budgetary partners with the Government. It's nice that it's a line of possible fixed partners – to stick to terminology. The second thing that is interesting is that most people are so satisfied with the 2004 budget that they want to talk about the 2005 budget the most. It's in and of itself also nice, but the government hasn't started those discussions yet. It may be something early in the light of the economic prospects we have to base for 2005. But the mandate of the investigation under the name of the Skauge Committee was also the central party to design. So the centre party has seen the need to implement a tax reform that reduces the difference between the marginal tax rate on capital and labour income, and to do something about the property tax. And if you're going to do something about the property tax, you have to do something other than sit and look at it. Then there could be some reality of it. That, I think, is quite important for another significant central party value, namely to keep Norwegian capital in business in Norway. Then it's important to do something about the discriminatory taxes on wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1386	At my age, a not so busy in permanent succession is no longer. One gets to stay stable. The Labour Party has entered into an agreement to secure more money for municipalities to take care of school and care. Minister of State Erna Solberg says this likes her bad. They have to change, they'll get enough money, she says. The working party has been involved in ensuring that the laws on temporary inclusion are not now in force. The working party has been in favour of ensuring that a non-contractual pension should not be taken into account, nor should it be subject to the rules of leave. Minister of State Erna Solberg went to the front attack on the trade unions, at the LO cartel's conference on Gol, we read. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Is the Minister of Finance agreed with the other Vice-Chairman in the Right that this budgetary settlement is not good, stupid for the country or for the people, or is he enjoying himself a little with the representative Lilletun today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1395	I allow myself a bit of a joke to say that after all these invitations to join, I have at least registered that the partnership law must be widely accepted in the Stortinget. [[Laughter]] At least I'm happy. I agree with most of what Erna Solberg has said – I am not going to reveal here what the disagreement must consist of – that the municipalities must not interpret the fact that they are getting more money, as an invitation to relax in terms of the need to see if you can simply get more money back – i.e. more efficiency, rationalisation in municipal activities. That's what she said, and not that she liked it bad. I hope that will not happen either. I don't think that will happen, because the municipalities will be under a constant pressure of expectation, which means that sensible municipal politicians also see the need for, among other things. making use of the option now offered by the changes in VAT rules, neutral VAT, to see what is the cheapest – buying services with other municipalities, doing so privately or doing it effectively under their own control.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1404	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1407	It is hardly just the Progress Party who believes that the Norwegian fee level is too high. For many of the fees, there is little popular support because the fee itself, or the level of the fees, is perceived as unreasonable. This applies, for example: the alcohol charges, as studies have shown that as much as 70 pst. the public wants to reduce, because the level of charges has been completely ignored by all other European countries, and most people see that, in addition to unfair prices, there are a wide range of problems in terms of increasing border trade, home burning and not least smuggling, not only of 96 pst. alcohol, but increasingly also wine and – in particular in the last year – beer. Smuggling brings great benefits and has given ground to organised crime of considerable scale. In addition to the fact that border trade, which is now probably only with Sweden, has risen to around DKK 9 billion and is also rising sharply in relation to Denmark, the country loses large tax revenues, Norwegian jobs are also largely affected, primarily in the commercial sector, but also in a number of Norwegian manufacturing companies. As price differences between Norway and our neighbouring countries continue to increase, problems will also increase. It is therefore incomprehensible that the government does not see that it has to do something with this, but instead chooses to stick its head in the sand and pretend that the problem does not exist. The claim that it will be too expensive to do anything is all reason to ask questions about it. There are a number of examples of the increase in the income of the country by reducing taxes. This is probably also the case with regard to the one-off charge on the car. The level of car charges is a major problem in Norway, not least because of the violent progress that has led to the fact that for very many people there is no need to control the purchase of cars. Especially for families with many children, it may be absolutely necessary to have a larger car with both more seats and more liberal luggage storage. Such a car will weigh more than a small car and also have a larger engine. The progress of the one-off charge makes such a car too expensive for most families with children, and they must be careful with small, narrow and less secure cars that do not meet their transport needs. High new car prices also mean that Norway has one of the oldest car parks in Europe. The average age has passed 10.2 years and is rising, and we have more than 500,000 cars on Norwegian roads that are 15 years old or older. Newer cars are both ‘cleaner’ and more roadworthy than old ones. There has been a raging trend in the case of passive safety in cars in recent years, and it should not be the case that Norwegian drivers have to drive around in more road-hazardous cars than drivers in other countries due to high charges. For this reason, the Progress Party wishes to see a gradual reduction in the level of fees towards a European average level. We have a number of taxes in Norway that are too high, are unfortunate or are unfairly structured. Per. Today, unfortunately, only the Progress Party wants to do something about it. In the past, there were also some concerns on the part of the Right about some taxes, but unfortunately in the autumn of 2001 there was a sudden slowdown. It must have been a great disappointment for those of the Right voters who actually believed that the Right meant what they wrote in the budget position in the autumn of 2000, where the Right actually proposed to reduce all the alcohol charges by 17,5 p.m., where they expressed concerns about the strong rate of the one-off fee, would harmonise the VAT rate with the EU’s minimum rates, considered that the high petrol prices were a significant problem, and would reduce the diesel charge down to the Swedish level, and as if not enough: in fact, proposed to wind up the chocolate levy, the taxes on non-alcoholic beverages and the one-off packaging charge for beverages. Since then, the Right has largely gone in to adjust the fees that they thought it was right to remove three years ago. The progress party is often accused of winging and changing its position, but we actually believe the same thing about these things that we did three years ago. Right, on the other hand, can hardly be accused of having held a bad course. The fact that the Progress Party is now alone in wanting to do something about the Norwegian level of fees may be good for the Progress Party, but it is far from good for the country. Finally, I would like to commend the Government for one thing: that it now finally seems to have put in place a general VAT compensation scheme for the municipalities that seem to be able to function, so that a completely necessary competitive stimulation of all municipal services can begin. And we're looking forward to a similar system also getting started for state operations. It's no less necessary there.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1424	It has been said that this is a historic budgetary settlement, because the workers' party and the Right have entered into budgetary settlements and agreed on a budget that is so acceptable to the Workers' Party that they can vote in a subsidiary way for it at the end of today's sitting. In SV we have tried to deal with this situation in a factual and tidy way. We see that the Labour Party has changed the budget in the right direction in some essential areas. At the same time, what remains in the case of increased excess equity for some vulnerable groups is changes from this year to the next year that SV could not have gone through. This applies to excesses, e.g.: for those for whom we managed to get a pledge in connection with housing support after they got huge electricity bills in ours, and this applies, for example. social security schemes for lone dependants. It is also the case that this agreement contains cuts in some significant and important environmental areas that go counter to what SV would have done. But we have not shouted and shouted and said that now we see the new Great Coalition in Norwegian politics and believe that a marriage between the Right and the Workers' Party has come to stay. We view this as a resting-point, as limping the water in a big period where the Right has dominated the budget both first year and second year, not to as much this third year, but as the Sem declaration will also mark the fourth year. So it's a resting-point in a big right-hand project. That's why we've said that this is kicking in a situation where you need hammers and cases. It is tempting sometimes to kick bad wood when you see that it looks bad, while what we know is true for the future, is to use a little more powerful tools and get it fixed once and for all. It'll take a while, but it's short-term fun. Therefore, this Government needs a completely different political challenge. The right-wing policy needs a clear alternative, and it needs something other than a new possible minority government that can build up from week to week. It needs a firm majority that can take some great solidarity for the community, which can last for a whole magnification period. One does not equip a knowledge society by means of the approach and by changing a budget from six months to six months. You don't fight differences in one of the richest countries in the world by increasing excesses one half-year and reducing some of them again the next, and by spending giant tax credits one half-year and spending a little rest the next. We must then pursue a systematic policy of redistribution. Nor do they fight unemployment by pursuing a policy that is so unpredictable to business that they do not know what to do with it. This series I could have done a lot, a lot longer. The SV now sees itself as our job in Norwegian policy, is to mobilise towards the enlargement elections in 2005 in such a way that we would like to achieve a majority of our policies along the way, and with the very clear objective that we would like to invite people most to participate in a political project that is greater than the sum of the changes in the individual chapters and items of a government budget, which is a large, solidarity project, a virtue for solidarity and community. There is one thing that can shut down such mobilisation. It is if the ‘yes’ side of the Labour Party believes that the EU case is the most important issue today, and that a new rematch on Norwegian EU membership is more urgent than all other issues and more than a new majority in 2005. It is not because SV does not respect the fact that the majority in the Workers' Party has a different EU view than us, but it is because we have no faith in mobilising towards a new, large Community project whose parts of such an alliance, namely the Workers' Party, are to stand in arms with the right side every two days and argue for a Norwegian EU membership. In Norwegian political debate, the EU fight has a clear right-/left-wing axis. We should not underestimate the counterpowers faced if we were to be able to achieve a liberal, joyful, solidarity project towards the next big shot. There will be many who see their own interests threatened by it. At the fall's choice SV made his best choice ever. We're mobilizing a lot because of values. We mobilise many because of a clear desire for more objectives and meaning in politics. Many people say that in a situation where the market changes so quickly and where the international economy can cope with jobs from day to day, we cannot have a policy that also floats for the weather and the wind. Then you have to have a policy that says: we want to achieve some very clear projects and goals, and we want to run after them, and it's going to last for four years. So let me give you some headlines about what such a policy should contain. Firstly, the state of Norway owns a lot around many businesses and important parts of Norwegian infrastructure, but we have far too little purpose and meaning in what to use state ownership for. An example mentioned in the financial statement is the situation in Årdal and Høyanger. The state owns 44 pst. in Norwegian Hydro. Norsk Hydro believes that they should not continue to invest in these industrial communities, because it is not part of their future strategy for the company – not because it is unprofitable investment, but because it is not part of their strategy. In SV, we do not believe that Stortinget can act as a government in Norsk Hydro or intervene directly and make decisions that the Norwegian Hydro government makes, but we believe that the state that owns disclaims the power and authority of ownership, if you are not involved and have a strategy for how you want to use that ownership, and has clear signals to the governments that will then do the job on behalf of the owners. We must have such a policy and such a debate. It is in this way, in the compromise between capital and governance, that Norway is built. It is this compromise that we ourselves must also look to the future. Secondly, business needs to know what to do with framework conditions. It is very unpredictable when the workshop industry, for example. Once again, proposals for changes to the law on leave of absence in a situation where they lack orders and where they are struggling to maintain their competence, and due to changes in the law on leave of absence, are forced to cancel people instead of being able to hold that labour force in the hope that there will be better times. The Minister of Finance now warns that he has the hope that better times will come. It is then reverse that it is necessary to force companies to make such disposals in relation to their labour force that people are sent out into unemployment, possibly force people to move, and that businesses are not able to take new orders. The same will apply if there are major fluctuations in other framework conditions or monetary policy, which took place last summer in some industrial workplaces. The third point is the issue of municipalities and welfare. Here, municipal minister Erna Solberg has released the cat from the bag, for she considers this an exceptional year for the privatisation and the competitive outsourcing that Right considers necessary in Kommune-Norway. That's where we have to decide. On the morning of today the Minister of Finance lighting up against me on my steps with: Mrs. Halvorsen, come out, use the credit card, buy, go berserk in the Christmas trade, fear the nation! Well, I'm not that hard to pray, but that's not exactly what is the biggest and most important task in Norwegian politics right now. It's a bigger and more important task to be able to keep the promises that a lot of people share with all the kids who have their everyday life in school, and the teachers and the parents who care about it. And then they have to bet on the municipalities – not just as a break between all the Right Policy – then we have to say that we think this is important, because we have fought for community solutions, which everyone, including those who really have the money to buy something else, should end up about, and because it should light up so that we really see what we're betting on for the future. The fourth is about cooperation between the social partners. When this government puts down a sample to evaluate how temporary employment should work for the future, and then at the last turn, at the moment that this sample is putting the last hand on the work, it says that no, we're going to change it anyway, just sit there and discuss, you, but we've decided, then you don't take the social partners seriously. One important reason Norway has been a welfare state is that it has achieved this cooperation between an active country and the social partners and that people have taken responsibility together. My list is much longer than this. For example, we believe in a clean-up of environmental policy. We believe that very much of what we need in the future is another effort for new renewable energy and to harness the electricity we have, in such a way that people don't get gigantic surprises when the power bill comes, and so that we can reinvigorate the industry. Distribution, international policies, the whole school and education community in the same way. We want to invite people to join in discussing this vision, discuss what may be a new political awakening, as the alternative to a right-wing dominant government, led by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1458	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1461	When I hear Christin Halvorsen, I want to remind you that it's not enough to say hallelujah, one has to do it too. SV is now expressing concern for the increasing unemployment rate. I thought it was positive, but I asked myself the question whether this could be taken seriously. Today, SV will increase the use of oil money in good old tradition, but in the 1990s they have voted against almost all of the projects that have provided us with these oil revenues. In recent years, several representatives from SV have been concerned about the power-generating industry. At the same time, SV is the party that does the most to prevent this industry from gaining access to power, and in addition, they have a great deal to do with strange environmental taxes. Over 20,000 industrial workplaces have been lost in the last year. Among other things, the lost 5000 industrial workplaces in the offshore industry. The answer from SV to this is to remove 1 billion in investments to next year. Then it almost has to be allowed to ask, is it that 5,000 is too few? Should even more people have left without a job today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1470	In SV we have the ability that we not only say hallelujah, but we do it too. We believe that having visions and clear goals for the future is a major driving force in policy. We can't just dream back to the grips that worked in the 1950s, when we're going to discuss the framework conditions for Norwegian business in the future. It is a very big challenge that offshore activities have a certain predictability of scale. The accent knows just as well as I do that it can vary by 30 billion in one year and 70 billion in the second year in investments. It's very unpredictable. This means, for example: that such a place as Stord has 1 000 to 2 000 permanent jobs one year, must hire labour in the second year in order to be able to carry out deliveries, and then return to unemployment. We believe that there should be much greater predictability in this respect. In terms of power, yes, the Workers' Party lacks both economic sense and common sense. Thus, it is not the environmental impacts of the gas power plant that have prevented gas power plants from being built. That's the price. We lost. We have many proposals for much more reasonable and sustainable energy use than the gas power plants that have now become a mantra for industry. Bioenergy, for example, is better, cheaper and has a large volume.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1480	The representative, Halvorsen, has generally given an entertaining assessment of the political situation. I am pleased that she found room for mention of the problems of unemployment in her article. The Socialist Left will solve the problems of unemployment by recruiting more people to solve different problems in the public sector and spending almost 7 billion more of the oil wealth for this purpose and increasing taxes heavily. Then I think it's appropriate to ask the representative Halvorsen if she fears what consequences it will have for the private sector. Because unemployment has arisen in the private sector, and the demand from business is now to show moderation, and to allow the benefits of monetary policy to work in 2004. SV has chosen to increase public expenditure almost 4 pst. until next year. Then you can almost ask if it is a deliberate strategy from the Socialist Left to wind up large sections of private business. Finally, I would like to ask if the representative Halvorsen believes it is socially responsible to cut the cash support by NOK 3657 per person. month for thousands of children’s families with one month’s notice?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1489	The SV proposes for the 2004 government budget to spend DKK 2.3 billion more than the government proposes, in order to set up activities for both the upgrading of school buildings, the upgrading of infrastructure, for example. racial protection, etc. We believe that this is a far more responsible policy for getting people to work than what the Right has proposed. We are at every job we propose in the public sector. We're in the process of suggesting that we hire unemployed teachers instead of letting them go unemployed in a situation where you need that workforce, and how many classrooms are on the verge of fumigation, to put it straight. But we also recognise what we are proposing in the private sector. It's private companies running racial protection. It's private companies that clean up the schools. It is precisely those parts of private business that have problems today because they are out of commission. That's the capacity we can use for completely necessary societal tasks, which we now solve as we have the hands to do them and the money to pay them to do the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1496	SV boasts its environmental profile. They also boast that the lot is in favour of strange environmental requirements. And they don't seem particularly concerned that this will lead to the flagging out of Norwegian companies and thus increase unemployment. On the other hand, when environmental proposals do not want these effects, they are less observant and less willing to support them. There is simply a proposal from the Progress Party that one should have a tax incentive for sulphur-free fuels. This is a fuel that is already being produced in Norway today, but it is then exported to countries that have already introduced a tax incentive and that want this type of fuel. I want to ask this question to Kristin Halvorsen: why can't SV support this, be involved in facilitating that environmental fuels are also available in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1505	There is an incredible short-term lack of understanding in the Progress Party as to how profitable it is to bet on a proper environmental policy. Norwegian industry has in very many ways been able to find profitable, good environmental solutions and is at the forefront of world measurement in many areas. It is because it has been possible to find the mix between conversion requirements and emissions that has led companies to harness to produce more and more environmentally friendly. They've been very successful. It's just looking around in a lot of industrial areas, looking at what the environment there looks like today, compared to what it did in the past. It is therefore a complete misunderstanding that the industrial policy prescribed by the Progress Party is more profitable and better, when they believe that Norwegian industry can compete with a barrel and drive policy – and don’t worry about what may be of emissions – according to non-national standards. It's hopeless! On the contrary, it's profitable to do the opposite. In the case of this sulphur in fuel, we agree with the intention, but the representative must have excused me that I do not know all the sub-points of this. What the SV and the Advance Party disagree on in this respect is, of course, the desire of the Advance Party to have the cheapest petrol available in general. We like to look at the device regarding how this is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1512	We'll get back to that another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1515	The government received very clear and unambiguous signals from an overall business life, with the NHO at the head, about having a tight budget, thus reducing interest rates and weakening the Norwegian krone price. The government has now delivered, and everyone enjoys the full 4,5 pst. interest rate reduction and a decline in the dollar rate, of great importance for the family economy, municipalities and business. In addition to this, the government has already delivered $20 billion in relief, mostly to business. The Socialist Left is very grateful, both parts of its economic policy, and has therefore had difficulties in taking part in economic matters every year. They want more taxes on business this year – DKK 4 billion – and more oil money. The entire NOK 6.8 billion they want to spend, but without increasing production. Is this the medicine Socialist Left Party believes there is a need to get better employment in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1524	A small message of satisfaction about sulphur-free petrol first, because the Minister of Finance could tell me when I was about to sit down, that this will come as a demand from 2005 and in any case will be introduced. That's good news for both the Progress Party and SV. So to what is about the framework conditions for business: Where in the world has the Christian People's Party got it from, that SV operates and increases taxes on business? Not from our alternative budget! We give tax relief to business in our alternative budget. First of all, the main two elements of that tax bill are that we reduce the employer’s tax. I think that's the right way to go. The second is that we change the depreciation rates on investments in industry, because we believe it would be right in today's situation to contribute to more innovation in Norwegian industry. And then we change some of the taxes in business, but in sum it's going to be positive. Here it is very interesting that the Christian People's Party could learn a lot from.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1533	The head of the SV had a power salve about municipal and local welfare in relation to the encouragement that people have received today to borrow money to shop for Christmas. It's a force-salve I agree with the heart! It doesn't seem like it's supposed to be in the paper that you encourage people to borrow money to shop and increase private consumption. And at the same time one should say that it's an exceptional case that one at all gets better finances in the municipalities to hire more help nurses, or caregivers for our children at primary school or in the SFO. That's remarkable! But I'm concerned about the local economy. I guess that's also SV. The centre party has tried to go through what we now see with regard to the municipal economy in relation to the kindergarten agreement. As far as we can see, the kindergarten reform is not, in reality, fully financed by the municipal economic structure that is now being set up. It is not possible to get it together with the tax failure you have, and with the designation you have in other areas, including: to psychiatry. Therefore, it is a challenge for SV to take it seriously, not just to say that the municipalities have probably got what they need, but to take it seriously. If we are to meet the nursery agreement, we will already in the revised national budget have to take a bigger boost than what has been taken in the autumn budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1540	We in SV agree with the Center Party that what had been important for the municipalities was not just saving NOK 2 billion in connection with this year's budget. It's done the cut job around the municipalities a little bit easier than it was, but that doesn't mean we can sit and think, what are we going to bet next year? That just means that we can say, oh, we can cut a little bit less than we thought, on completely necessary things that the population is asking for. The nursery arrangement is our baby. We're going to watch it, and we're going to make sure that it's implemented to the last detail. If the Center Party has calculated and found other calculations than us in terms of the kindergarten agreement, we'd like to take a look at that. We are happy to follow up on the revised national budget, because the kindergarten agreement and kindergarten reform are one of the great promises that, despite a Right-dominated government, have been able to make during this great period. Cheaper kindergartens for all children who need it are a very important reform SV has been fighting for for 25 years, and many children have unfortunately grown up at that time. Now we're not going to have any more confirmations until this is in place!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1547	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1550	A finance minister himself is basically in the habit of being quoted correctly and being added to the motives he has. I also read the interview with Per-Kristian Foss and listened to the radio today. In the interview he says: Go use money to trade, and then he says on the radio: Borrow at least no more than what you can afford! So I actually perceive that he said that one could use the increased liberality one has gained in the family economy, to rejoice, but that one should not do as it was said that it was done here. I thought it should add to people the meanings they've come with. Otherwise I am glad that both the representative Aksensen and the representative Halvorsen are prepared to use more hallelujah. I hope that sometimes it will come out in relation to the way in which a description of the government's policy, which I think is rather unhealthy. It is good to be able to establish that the main priorities of the Government of the State budget will be continued with the agreement that is now in port. In the government's proposal to the government budget, there was a strong commitment to creating and securing jobs, and the fight against unemployment was further strengthened. There was a strong commitment on the part of the municipalities, and there is more to it than that of the municipalities. There was a strong commitment to higher education, and there will be more to school buildings as well as hours. There was a heavy commitment to health, among other things. in psychiatry, and there's even more to health. The fight against poverty in Norway and in poor countries is being continued and strengthened in next year's budget. Through the poverty action plan, close to DKK 1 billion will go to targeted measures to lift poor and drug addicts in our own country out of poverty. This is how we can overcome poverty, which, despite extensive welfare services and long-term work on equalisation, still exists. It is a shame that we have so many poor children in Norway, said former Prime Minister Oddvar Nordli on TV a few years ago. It's a point of view that the Christian People's Party and the sitting government share and take the consequences. We have a good budget for the country. The working party shall also have the honour of being willing to extend far and to set a line above half of its requirements. Cut in cash support and freshly, as the Labour Party had outlined in its alternative budget, is of course not the current policy of the Christian People's Party. It is equally inappropriate to be involved in weakening the tax-reduction scheme for gifts to voluntary organisations. These are important ideological things for the Christian People's Party, things that are closely related to our Christian values and our human vision. Therefore, these cut proposals are unacceptable for the Christian People's Party. But when the Labour Party was willing to put this aside and look at the areas we're dealing with, it was at the heart of a reasonable settlement. So the Labour Party must have some praise for that. What few have said about this today, and I would like to bring something to mind, is the joy of increasing aid to poor countries and development by over 600 million. kr, and is up to 0.94 pst. of GNI. This is in line with the plan to reach an aid level of 1 pst. of GNI. It is particularly important that training aid is given a strong boost. Education is job no. 1 to create development. No other investment is giving more back in the fight against poverty than just education. 123 million children in the world are out of basic education, and the majority of these are girls. The budget will increase the investment in education by about 200 million. kr, the aim of which is to double education assistance from 2003 to 2005. We should also note that the aid budget takes seriously the fact that there is a close link between environmental issues and poverty. As part of the follow-up to the Johannesburg Conference, over a three-year period, 375 million will be raised. In addition to the water, energy, agriculture and biological shortages of the aid budget. Furthermore, environmental management in Norway shall be strengthened. In the fight for sustainable development, it is also gratifying that the Government has presented the National Agenda 21 Action Plan. It has been a lot of talk about joy, and it has been a lot of talk about my joy. It is quite true that the joy was present, both for cleanliness and that I thought the budget was good. But there's one point that the Labour Party hasn't said anything special about when they've seemed to me happy, nor when it's about the joy of others. I want to include that in the final analysis, because it is happy that a good government is allowed to continue its work. I would like to thank the Labour Party for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1574	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1577	I am not going to follow the debate that was going on about who should be in line, but there are at least two interesting events in this budgetary process that challenge the political landscape in the future. The only thing that is so much mentioned is the joyous outbreak of Lilletun over the conciliation, and the second is Jan Tore Sanner's powerful statement with the parliamentary basis of the Government here in the Chamber earlier today. But in the Christian People's Party, it's not just Lilletun who lets his mouth skip with that heart full of it. In the newspaper GD yesterday, the head of the Christian People's Party in Oppland writes that the Christian People's Party has been given a boost in the recent budgetary agreement. But at the same time, a question about the Sem Declaration and the idea that in the situation we are currently facing, the tax promise in the Sem Declaration should be taken up for revision. Is the Christian People's Party in agreement with its leader?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1584	Some heart things are strengthened, some heart things have a clear hold, so that they are not subjected to cuts. I think that a financier from the Right, Jan Tore Sanner, had a brilliant post here today, where he well sketched the political divides. I might wish that both the Labour Party, the Swedish Labour Party and the other party would recognize more that the heavy burden that one has drilled with tight budget – having to say no to many things – actually gives results. I also thought I could come with that. Actually, we're trying to have a whole thing and talk about the positive things. So when it's tax-free, it's obvious that there was an intrusion between the government parties about this before we went into the Sem negotiations. When we have negotiated a basis, we say, of course, that we are on that basis. We're working to make the most of that foundation. But based on the economic situation that has been, it's a bigger challenge now than it was on the day of an in-depth settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1591	It is direct pleasure to see the representative Lilletun as happy as he is today. It's been a long time. We can just enjoy this to others. Of course, that happiness came about because of the growing love relationship that now arises between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. So there's a hot flirt going on here, and it happens as the Right sits in the same government and looks at it. In the short term, this means, of course, that cooperation can still be maintained, but in the long term, this is a signal that the Christian People's Party is preparing – what to say – to tip Right out of the government offices in order to invite the Workers' Party in. In an earlier exchange of lines, Jon Lilletun spoke about the life courses that had now been saved. Does this mean that it is really the representatives of the Christian People's Party who should go to these life courses, to learn to be faithful to one of the partners you have chosen, rather than in a way that we are now witnessing in the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1598	Yeah, it's funny that I'm a lunatic, and I can also infect others. I actually thought the representative Jensen was really kind in his reply here no. That's good. But here no one has failed anyone. It's the government party that's gone into a deal the same way we were in a deal with the Progress Party last year. I guess we're all so created that we need a life course. Therefore, I am very sorry that the progress party did not make it any bigger. There is an interesting statement today that I have to challenge back to, so that Siv Jensen can comment on it later today. She said easily in her speech, as a comment to this with Hagen's double reckoning: ‘It is not the case that any play from the Progress Party is a planned breach of promises.’ That is exactly quoted, and I think it will also be recorded in the Minutes. I hope that we can get to a life course, the representative Jensen and I.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1614	That sounds nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1617	It's almost Christmas. And while those of us who have the most have got Christmas gifts from this government that allow us to go berserk with our credit card, others have got worse. By this week at the latest, Bjørg Tørresdal admitted one morning to the ‘Policy Quarter’ that there were more poor people in Norway now than before, and that this was a serious problem. While the line of the Salvation Army and the Church's Bymition is growing, and very many municipalities are cutting social assistance under state norms – I've been calling and questioning about that, and the families of children who, last winter, got some help to cope with the electricity bill, the very poorest of them, won't get it to the next year – Jon Lilletun and boasts of the poverty campaign to the Government. I sincerely hope that it is the mind and not the cry that gets stuck in the neck of those who must go to the Salvation Army. I want to ask Jon Lilletun: is it that the description of reality that the government parties and their conciliators have in between the situation is what is the real truth about poverty in Norway, or is it the reality that those who have to go to the Salvation Army actually experience and tell about? When has the Christian People's Party intended to add its broad side to this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1624	Now it's not like the whole group that Andersen's representative is talking about when it's in force, for example. the housing arrangement, were people who were of the poorest. It is not that our general welfare systems have helped to prevent them from being poor. That's what's the whole challenge. Instead of just hammering, hammering, as an idealist like Andersen's, we might be able to meet up with a discussion about how we can target some of the arrangements so that they will re-establish what the general arrangements have not been able to grasp. I am convinced that before we are able to combine general arrangements with more targeting of some schemes, the number of poor people will also continue to rise. I believe in the Salvation Army's depictions. I believe those people who tell me about the reality out there. But I'm convinced that only general arrangements will not help, and so we must also have the will to target.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1631	President! I ask for the floor for an obvious misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1636	The representative, Andersen, has asked for the word to clarify a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1639	The housing aid scheme is not a general scheme that goes to people who have good advice. The housing aid scheme is very rigorously tested in terms of both income and expenditure. It's the poorest children's families that got help last year, and they've lost it this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1645	Does Lilletun want to answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1648	I'll do it in the next answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1653	First, I would like to say that it was a pleasure to register the representative Lilletun's vain joy and enthusiasm for the budgetary agreement with the Labour Party. Although there are many in the Christian People's Party who have claimed that the Central Party does not want to look at Norwegian politics for the time being, I will state that I was satisfied with the direction that the budgetary agreement took. But the Sem statement is clear: it will be noted that several times during today's debate, and that means additional tax havens of about 10 billion kroner. Even after the conciliation, there are several municipalities that are concerned about the closure of the areas of kindergarten, care for the elderly and school, and I will pass on – not on behalf of the Centre Party, but on behalf of several spokespersons – the concerns that arise in the municipalities. Romsdal's Budstik type a move to save. This applies to older people who move three times in a year. Is this a memento of rationalization in Kommune-Noreg? My challenge to the representative Lilletun is: What is the priority of the Christian People's Party, better care for the elderly or additional tax havens?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1660	First a short answer to the representative Karin Andersen: I'm talking about general arrangements in general. When it comes to the bumps, I said that it was not just the poorest who got part of the bumps, and I stand by it. So to the representative Eli Sollied Uppereas: A selection in the Christian People's Party passed through the local authorities' situation, and they suggested three measures. One was a strengthened financial framework over a number of years to correct the imbalance that had been created over many years. The second was greater freedom for the municipalities, and the third was that one also had to carry out structural changes and rationalisation in the municipalities. It's now that we have the better economy, and I think it also has to happen in the future. We presented the largest peace package that has been presented to the municipalities, which also voted against parts of the Central Party. And the third, as I said, is that there has to be a continuous renewal and structuring in the municipalities so that every single penny is to reach as far as possible to the individual who lives in the municipality. [[The President clubs.]] I belong to the president's clubs, and of course I respect that. But now it was such that I would answer two things at once here, and I managed that almost in a minute. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1678	That's why the president clubs twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1681	Lilletun calls out that we have a good government. Well, it's up to the voters to decide. There doesn't seem to be so many, at least, some with Lilletun. But of course we will deal with this later in one case. It has been difficult, says the representative Lilletun, with these tight budgets to allow what you want to allow. So tight budgets: once one has prioritised tax credits, of course it becomes less for other things. It's a priority Lilletun has been given by giving taxes to those who are the richest, so he can't deny it. So Lilletun says that the Sem declaration, with additional tax havens, becomes a major challenge. Does it mean that we are not expected to receive these large tax credits until next year, but that one will give priority to welfare and priority to those who are poor and need the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1690	Now it is well on the occasion of our uprisings in history where the representative Frøiland and I have seen that the voters have not condemned our governments in relation to how good they have been. But we have two years to fix that, and we hope that we can do that. In relation to what I said, it would have been quite difficult to run such a tight budget, of course I do. Now it is that most of the tax burden has gone to business. We know that in the alternative budget presented by the Labour Party now, the Labour Party actually held 15 of the millions that the Government has given in tax relief to business. So it's pretty hollow when you say that this tax haven't gone to the richest. No, he has gone to business, so that it can both secure and create new jobs. In relation to trying to understand how tough it is to give priority at the same time as giving adequate framework conditions, I have to say that I think there is a common responsibility for us here at Stortinget. The working party should be praised for their willingness to keep the frame. I have to stop here. But we have a common responsibility to be people's informers that it's a context, and that we have a collective totality to stick to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1701	The President has some doubts as to whether the representative has lost some zeros in the course, that it should be 15 billion and not 15 million. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1704	The President has rarely been more right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1709	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1713	After the government presented its proposal for a government budget, it quickly became clear to us in the Workers' Party that it would be a main task to ensure a better financial framework for hospitals in the budget negotiations this autumn. Why? Let me answer first by stating that health reform has been successful so far in many ways. First of all, because waiting time for necessary hospital treatment has already been significantly reduced for most patient groups. I believe that it is also now possible to establish that the health reform will in the long term provide us with more health for each hospital budget. But this kind of efficiency gains will take time to pick up. The problem with the government’s draft government budget was that health businesses were confronted with a financial framework that would not provide the necessary time for conversion. The financial framework was too small, and the requirement for balance sheet operations was unrealistic. This also led to the rapid disappearance of regional health businesses and made it clear that if the Government’s proposals were to be kept up, the consequences would be great. A number of proposals for necessary structural changes were launched. Such economically motivated structural changes would jeopardise the whole of the health reform. People will not understand that important offers are to be made because the requirement for a balance sheet operation is too strict. We also got clear examples of this. In Arendal 15 000 went on a torch to call about the emergency response at the local hospital. In the Workers' Party's alternative proposal for a State budget, we have therefore proposed to increase the appropriations for hospitals by DKK 1 billion, while proposing to push on the requirement for a one-year balance sheet operation. In the budget agreement, we have achieved a positive impact on the increase in appropriations by half a billion DKK, and a full impact on pushing the balance sheet requirement by one year. This will give health businesses greater room for rational conversion and it has reduced the need for conversions based only on economic conditions. This is very important. In one important area, however, there is good reason to praise the Government's draft budget. This concerns the proposed change in the distribution between basic and input-driven funding — which is often shortened by the ISF — in the hospital economy. Today it's like 40 pst. the budget is allocated to hospitals as basic appropriations, and 60 pst. as ISF. The government is now proposing that 60 pst. shall be granted as basic allocation and 40 pst. as ISF. The Labour Party fully supports this proposal and it has been important for us to secure this proposal by entering into budgetary settlements with the Government. In our opinion, too much ISF funding leads to insufficient attention being given to important patient groups. This applies in particular to patients with complex disorders, with chronic diseases, and also to patients in the psychiatry. With today’s system, these patients do not provide sufficient income, and hospitals are forced to choose patients with other, simpler diagnostics, rather than these groups to secure their income. The government, not least the Minister of Health, deserves a great deal of praise for making the tough choice they have made in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1739	The comments on the agreement on the State budget between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties show that this has been well received by professionals, businesses and the media. It is referred to as a victory for responsibility and good for the country's economy. Just ensuring a majority of a responsible economic policy that does not degrade the basis for growth and employment growth has been important to the Right. This budget shall contribute to securing and creating jobs, including: through continuing low interest rates and a competitive price of crowns. The basis for better times has been set. We see the contours of an dawning optimism, and we can't afford to shake this away. The Progress Party does not fully know how to reach this budgetary agreement. They have been wronged all along, but otherwise reactions vary from day to day and from person to person. Today Alvheim says to today's business that he had not believed that the Right Party and the Workers' Party could come to an agreement. So the progress party had hoped for a break, so that the game could go on and on with them in the lead role. So that's where they were wrong. Siv Jensen said in the debate earlier today that she had not believed that the Progress Party and the government parties would have managed to reach an agreement. She didn't get that tested out. They chose to sit outside themselves. The Progress Party itself chose not to have any influence on next year's government budget. Luckily, the others want it. Because it's not as the Progress Party says in the comments, that the government parties continue their wings to achieve everything in general, namely to ensure continued government participation. This is wrong. We're not waving, and government participation is not a measure, but a means. Because, unlike the Progress Party, right-wing influence on politics, on the budget, through government participation, and not least through cooperation with other parties. We're more concerned with what we're working with than who. I agree with Siv Jensen that it is the content that matters. If you stand outside, you have no influence, so it's the destiny of the Advance Party this time. Hagen's reply to Stoltenberg earlier today could indicate that the Progress Party would not have any influence either. One of the reasons is that you can't use the same money many times. But neither does the Socialist Left fully know how to characterise the budget that is now being adopted. Here the comments vary not only from day to day, but from hour to hour. In the remarks to the budget, the Socialist Left claims that the budget we are now adopting has a Right-Stamp, while the two sections below say that the lack of political direction is striking. The Socialist Left cannot believe that a budget with the Right-Stamp does not have a direction. But in case the Socialist Left Party hasn't got it with it, I can tell them a little bit about what direction it is: The government wants a strong and competitive business as it is a prerequisite for investing in school, health and employment. Then we have to have a tight budget where no more oil money is spent, because it ensures low interest rates and competitive crown prices, so that the emerging optimism in Norwegian business that we are now witnessing is reinforced and the basis for increased employment is laid. Then there is someone who claims that we have left the Sem Declaration's goal of tax relief with this agreement. To the delight of most taxpayers in this country, I can tell you that we don't. That's not the big relief next year, it's just a little one. But the Workers' Party's proposal for tax shocks for individuals and businesses of about 5 billion kroner is averted. And the direction is clear. In two years we have received tax reliefs of approximately NOK 20 billion. Finally, I also hope that the Socialist Left Party has come to realize that the Government wants to contribute to innovation, through school, research and innovation. The budget agreement on increased bets in school is a good right-hand case, and it is a right direction with several school hours in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1758	It was probably kind of good for everyone that it went as it was in the harvest budget. So if the Workers' Party does not deal with a crisis mood, then the Christian People's Party gets more to things the party is very concerned about, and then the Right does not deal with this terrible Advancement Party. But when the Christian People's Party is so pleased to join the Workers' Party, and when the Right is so obviously happy to find an opportunity to tease the Advance Party, it opens up some interesting questions in the future about where the Government intends to seek support in the future. The centre party shall deal with the settlement in a factual manner. We think it improves the original draft budget that was there, but we do not think it is too good in some of the important areas in which we are concerned. The Centre Party has three main areas of activity in its alternative budget. One is a targeted enterprise policy that takes business into use throughout the country and that is set in areas where Norway has an opportunity to do well. The second is to increase appropriations to contribute to better local well-being, school and care. And the third is to create a fairer tax and distribution policy where we recognise that we tax some groups in Norwegian society harder than today, but where we also give more tax relief to those who have the lowest wages. The discussion on a tight budget and budgetary balance is a recurring exercise year after year. And it's a little strange discussion, in the sense that the parties that hold very hard on having a tight budget balance, use a lot of familiar tricks to bypass the so-called balance sheet. Granting only for half a year is often used, but also new rounds of government and concessional sales, and not least to claim dividends from state-owned companies. This year the state will well collect 95 pst. of the dividends payable in Statkraft. That's really the same thing as spending more oil money, but nobody's willing to admit it. But at least there's no less pressure in the economy, nor is there any more provision for pensions for the future. In the Hamlet of Shakespeare is one of the most famous lines: ‘There is something rats in the Kingdom of Denmark’. That line may be transferred to today's relationship between the state and the municipality. There is some rotting in the relationship between the state and the municipality, in the relationship between expectations and tasks being solved, in the relationship between the responsibility that takes the different places. For what are we seeing in the Norwegian municipal sector today? Indeed, the debt is growing, the deficits are increasing, the discretionary means to be used for cushioning are being reduced, and the district councils are coming per year. Today, very poor structurally. The answer from the Government has been so far: you have to convert, or you have to merge. But the government describes a reality that I think very many people in the municipalities don't recognize themselves in, nor in their own municipalities. Because those who are trying to bring about local welfare – the last example is the 124 rapporteurs who signed a treaty and handed it over to the Prime Minister yesterday – have a different reality than the reality outlined by this pulpit. I think it would be wise for us not to attack that debate by either blaming the municipalities when our own promises are not fulfilled, or by accusing the municipalities of being irrational or too small. It would also be wise if we had told the truth about the figures relating to the municipal sector, and had not done as the government does in the budget, the employment in the municipalities counts through the number of posts, not the number of annual works, when we actually know that over 40 pst. of the positions in the local government sector are part-time positions, and that the inflated image is a popular one for the local government sector, which is quite wrong. Local politicians who have now entered new jobs locally are concerned that the services of people should be optimised. They want the best possible local well-being and it plagues them when they have to reduce offers or when they do not meet the expectations created by the Stortinget. We should take that more seriously than what we do in today's financial debate. We should also take a longer-term approach to those issues. It is obvious that we do not grant that money within next year's budget. We need to think about longer-term measures to improve local welfare. And in the opinion of the Centre Party, we should tell the truth about what a full funding of the reforms we are in favour of really involves. We should grant the funds actually to be provided for full funding through a long-term escalation plan. We must be in a position to make new promises, and we must have an arrangement to restructure part of the debt in the local government sector. Then we also have to trust the solutions that are selected locally. It is the challenge of the Central Party in the extension of this financial debate and in the extension of next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1785	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1788	There has been a great deal of understanding among most of the parties here in this Chamber about how much oil money can be spent in the Norwegian economy without going beyond jobs, competitiveness, interest rates or inflation, etc. The centre party has been part of this vast majority, largely. I read with amazement in the budget that the Central Party has now submitted, that they will actually spend more than 3.3 million. kr more of the so-called oil money in the Norwegian economy. It has been difficult to establish how much to use, precisely because of developments in the labour market. We know: too much use – more leave. But today the Center Party is looking at it differently. We can spend a lot, a lot more oil money with the Senter Party budget. Does not the representative Arnstad see that this also has a backside when we look at future pensions and employment issues in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1797	The President notes that the will for moderation today is striking. Also in this post, millions were told where there would be billions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1800	The government and the Labour Party spend 50 billion dollars on the oil money in their budget. The central party spends NOK 53.3 billion on oil money in its budget. There is the difference in the budgetary balance between the Centre Party and the Government Parties and the Labour Party. It's not big. But then it's the government parties and the Labour Party in the budget agreement – as I was in my post – are doing a lot of little work to bypass the budget balance. One of the things that I think is the most problematic, and that the Workers' Party is involved, is that they choose to take so to say scratches and bits of the surplus Statkraft has this year. It's probably the best way you can destroy a state-owned company, and it's the Labour Party that chooses to be a part of it instead of being honest enough and saying, "It's the same thing as using oil money, it's just that we don't dare to call it oil money, and that's why we'd rather take dividends from State Power." One must also tell me what is the difference between being able to stimulate demand through public budgets a little more than what the Government and the Workers' Party are doing, and encouraging people, as the governor does today, to borrow to carry out the Christmas trade. I would much rather encourage people to be reserved for loans, and we would rather stimulate public demand. It's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1807	The representative Arnstad said that local welfare is important. I agree. It requires industrial development. Good nutrition development requires, inter alia: that we still have a high level of oil and gas activity, and that requires good owners. Will the representative Arnstad agree that we must then ensure that we also provide framework conditions for the oil and gas industry – among others. in the case of areas – which enable it to continue? Does she agree that we need good owners, and that they also need reward? What she does is she wants to increase taxes, double taxation on dividends. Clearly, it does not stimulate ownership and large investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1814	I agree with the representative of Onarheim that local well-being depends on a good local value creation, and on a national enterprise policy. I'm disappointed in the Right, which in a way seems to think that should be an industrial policy, it's just about giving general tax credits. No, it is about pursuing a targeted industrial policy towards areas where Norway can be the best. The oil and gas industry is an example of this. But then we also need to focus on both the knowledge available in the oil and gas industry and research related to the oil and gas industry. I must honestly say that I do not see that this government is doing it, simply. Oil and gas are close to my heart, and I would like to give the actors good framework conditions. Good framework conditions are not to scatter taxes uncritically downwards on them, but among other things. to give them a much larger room for research and development, and also to give them a steady state ownership, where one does not drive and take dividends almost said of everything they can earn in a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1823	As I see it, the Center Party is trying in all its ways to be the district's best friend. Now the average car driver in Norway spends between 60 000 and 70 000 kroner to have the mobility that the car provides. In cities it is possible to do without a car, because it is a certain collective offer, and the distances are relatively small. In districts, collective services are often non-existent, and distances are significantly larger. The Progress Party has proposed to reduce both the one-off and fuel charges. This will obviously be most beneficial for people in the districts, where there are greater distances and greater car dependency. For district industry, lower fuel charges will be particularly important. Why won't the Central Party support any of these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1832	Traffic is an important theme, not least in the context of regional policy. There is also one of the reasons why the Centre Party has added an extra DKK 1 billion to its alternative budget for transport measures, a transport billion that should mainly be used to improve the road network in Norway. The Progress Party shall select in its priority to reduce the charges for the drivers. The centre party has chosen a priority where we want to rust up the county roads and highways around this country that are sorely in need of upgrading. Our commitment to transportation is linked to it. I think it is very important for Norwegian business, because it is clear that today it is so bad on some roads in Norway that the fish is toasted healthy long before it descends on the continent. I do not disagree with Mr Monsen's representative about the need to increase the allocation of transport measures and that it is important for district-based business. But we're going to pick another device. We choose to improve the road network rather than give tax incentives to private cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1842	The budget agreement has a point on the industrial communities of Årdal and Høyanger. SV agrees with the Center Party that this is defensive in design. In particular, it would have been very desirable that this in Stortinget had been a plurality for the Minister of Industry to go around with the management and management of Hydro and work to bring about modernisation in the direction of Hydro – a modernisation that is extremely profitable, with a return of well over 20 pst. What the center party does is that they're in budget revenue. S. In a note that the Government must negotiate an agreement on authority participation in the modernisation of the melting plants and refer to proposals under Chapter 9. Me and SV are not fully aware of what the Senterpartei mean by that proposal. I can't tell if the Center Party has actually received feedback that there are these two industrial communities actually want to be the solution on this round here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1849	A few months ago, Gerhard Schröder was in Norway. The German Chancellor did not consider it worthy to travel to Norway and negotiate with a Norwegian industrial leader about the future of German shipyards and German workplaces. In the process around Høyanger and Årdal, it has always puzzled me that I have not seen the Prime Minister or the Government on the track once to try to get into discussions with Hydro about how to modernise the business, and also about how the state might contribute. Here, there is certainly something related to modernising both in terms of technology development and profitability, where the state could contribute with development funds – I am quite convinced of that. But I haven't seen anything. The centre party will today challenge the other parties on just this. We believe that in Norway we should also have a government that is so busy with the jobs associated with the industry side that they actually engage in an active discussion with the group it is about. We are probably not getting a majority in favour of our proposal, but are then going to vote subsidiaryly for the proposal that SV, among other things. are behind, about community-related migration measures, and at least hope that it can be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1860	The representative Arnstad once again stated that the Centre Party would give more money to the municipalities, so that they could solve municipal tasks. This year's municipal bill stressed the need to highlight local democracy, to give local politicians greater power over their own resources and the right to prioritize according to the municipality's needs. At the time of the processing of the municipal bill, the Centerpartie decided to remove many of the eartags belonging to the municipalities that bind the municipalities to their freedom of action. The centre party's alternative budget proposal also does not indicate a new course. The question to the representative Arnstad will then be: Is the Centre party to strengthen local democracy and give priority to the spokespersons – including the central party leaders – and other local politicians and to the central party, or will the Central Party still want the government to govern the municipalities through ear-marked appeals?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1867	The answer to whether the Central Party will contribute to strengthening local freedom of action is yes. That doesn't mean that we're uncritical of all the government's proposals. We voted in favour of a majority of the proposals that the Government had on increasing local freedom of action. But we also saw that a couple-three of the proposals could have quite a skeptical effect. Among other things, there is a school in my county now – a special school – that suddenly, neck-to-head, has been told that this is no longer a state task, it is to be financed municipally. I'm assuming that this is one of the results of one of these adding some subsidies to the framework that was really just about a ten-twelve municipality, and then it was evenly distributed over 434 municipalities. Obviously, that kind of bias couldn't vote for the Center Party. But we voted for many of the other proposals that the Government made. We believe that local freedom of action is absolutely necessary. However, local freedom of action must go hand in hand with addressing the resource challenges facing municipalities and agreeing on some long-term action to address the resource situation in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26.ana.ud2002e1876	Those were the last words of the morning meeting. The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is over. Negotiations will be suspended and a new meeting will be set at 9.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
