ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e30	I am pleased that the Justice Committee has unanimously joined the Government's proposal for a state takeover of the conflict councils. I have noticed that a unanimous committee also joins the proposed geographical breakdown of the councils and the number of advice proposed under today's framework as the most appropriate. In addition, the Committee supported the proposal for a Central Conflict Council Secretariat co-located with the Conflict Council of Oslo and Akershus. The Government will work to ensure that this professional environment, together with the other conflict councils, becomes an important contributor to the fight against childhood and juvenile delinquency. The proposal to reduce the number of conflict councils will have consequences for some of the staff of the conflict councils by relocating their place of work. However, all employees of the conflict councils at the acquisition date will have the right to remain in a state arrangement. I am committed to carrying out a sound process towards the employees, so that the transfer of business is of the least possible disadvantage to them. The aim is to maintain as much as possible of the enhanced competence of the conflict councils. It is important to ensure local ties with individual municipalities. This has been decided by the Government by maintaining the mechanism for recruiting brokers from each municipality and by maintaining the arrangement with a representative appointed by the local council in the appointing committee of the Council of Conflict. In addition, I would like to continue the many established agreements on free brokerage facilities in the municipalities. It is my opinion that municipalities benefit greatly from the work of the conflict councils as local conflict resolution and crime prevention. I agree with the committee that underlines the desire for increased use of mediation in conflict resolution. Dispute resolution is a very important tool in the fight against child and youth crime. As notified in St. Prp. No 1 for the current period, the Ministry of Justice has already launched a number of measures to increase the number of cases in the conflict councils. These include: a central seminar as well as several local seminars for the police, prosecution authorities and criminal services on conflict advice and the use of mediation as measures. The Ministry has also, through close cooperation with the National Attorney-General, launched a pilot project to provide 71 public prosecutors with the capacity to transfer cases to the Council of Conflict. I will return to Stortinget on an appropriate occasion with the result of the increase in the case case case initiated by the Ministry of Justice. I have noticed that the Committee wants a system of mandatory use of conflict advice assessed in certain types of cases. The mediation in the Conflict Council is based on the voluntary nature of all stakeholders. This is a fundamental principle on which the Council of Europe has based its 1999 recommendation on mediation in criminal matters. The same principle is explicitly mentioned in a 2002 UN ECOSOC recommendation, as well as in a new Swedish law on mediation in criminal matters that came into force last year. One of the objectives of conflict resolution is for the perpetrators to learn from what has happened and to take responsibility for the damage and/or intrusion they have caused to the victims. A good soil for learning does not arise by coercion. Learning works best if participation in a learning process is based on volunteering and self-motivation. Experience from the Councils of Conflict and international research shows that actively saying ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to mediation has a positive effect in itself, not least for young people. By making a deliberate choice in relation to mediation, a lot is won compared to bringing the parties closer together. These thinking processes can contribute to raising awareness and understanding of the consequences of their own choices and actions. Providing an opportunity to choose — and actually have to choose — can be a useful experience for some. The parties who actually agree to meet for mediation have already taken the view that they are willing to meet the other party for the purpose of reaching a solution together. Most people choose to say yes to mediation, and for young offenders this is an important motivation in taking responsibility for their own actions. However, in the light of the Committee's comment, I would like to re-examine a mandatory system in certain types of cases against other measures and solutions for young offenders who do not consent to mediation. I see that the Committee's main intention is to really avoid young people ending up in other parts of the criminal justice chain. In other words, you're very concerned, as I see it, that you shouldn't end up in prison institutions. That is how I read the Committee's commitment, both to the increased use of the conflict council and to the assessment of mandatory use of conflict councils in certain types of matters. On that basis, I'll go into this with an open mind. I share the Committee's view as expressed through a unanimous attitude, that it is an objective in itself to increase use and see if we can get more people away from a reconciliation system that can often help recruit young people into a criminal racetrack. None of us want that. The Committee does not want this, and I do not want it as a Council of State either.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e53	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 864]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e69	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Coast Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e80	The members of the Judicial Committee share the Government's starting point that one must fight organised crime and trafficking in human beings. On that basis, there is consensus that an individual needs exceptional investigation methods to deal with environments that are particularly closed and have its own strict form of internal justice. The party of progress remains alone in the view that it would be appropriate for Norway to have access to the same methods of investigation as for example. France. There is consensus in the Committee that one needs a criminal order that punishes the establishment of a covenant for the purpose of committing crimes. However, the design of the rule is not agreed, and the respective parties will probably explain their views. The Progress Party considers it natural that a starting point for the establishment of links is not on the question of what criminal framework the planned offences are expected to have. This is of secondary importance from the point of view of the Progress Party. However, when we have chosen to support the majority in that it will only apply if the penalty framework is three years, this is due to an appropriate link between investigation methods and procedural rules in the fight against organised crime. It amazes me that there is so little consistency between the use of words and actions in combating organised crime. When the majority advocates a doubling of the sentence, but never more than five years, if crime is part of organized crime, one says that it is only petty criminals that it is important to fight in this context. From the point of view of the Progress Party, this is at best a wrong signal to give! It has to be that one has to get the same doubling of punishment even where serious crime is organised. Then you'll be able to strike down the most socially damaging conditions. It will not be better for the participants in a federation to have an increased penalties only if the situation is not subject to more stringent criminal provisions. It is also unfortunate that the majority – not to be too bad with the real criminals in Norway – do not want to allow criminal sentences in organised crime to work together with competition and repetition. Altogether, all these criminals who organize to commit several serious acts provide a huge penalty discount. But now there is no quantum discount on crime in Norway. In order to avoid these penalties, we in the Progress Party want to continue our position that criminal acts need to be assessed individually and combined. The Progress Party also proposes that the maximum framework for all actions be 30 years. This is in line with previous proposals made by us. The Council of State has also sent out a proposal for a 30-year maximum penalty. Although it has been a long time, it cannot be said that much concrete has come out of this. It is desirable that one give criminal repeaters an extra punishment, here as an extra conditional punishment. Then one will give an extra incentive to refrain from further crime, but one will also be given more stringent treatment where this does not have the desired effect. However, if the individual-preventive conditional punishment is to help, it must be added at a time when this may have an effect. So one should start with this already from the second sentence. Then comes the effect of a third sentence. Waiting for the fourth or fifth sentence means that the criminal track is so sedentary that the preventive effect is probably overshadowed by the renovation to keep the person as far as possible behind the walls. A question is the time from which it is to be considered as reoccurrence. The majority believe that this should only apply to actions taken after the age of 18 and after the commencement of settlement. The party of progress believes it is most appropriate to deal with the criminal lavalier. Then, of course, the courts will have to take into account the necessary conditions for the imposition of penalties. It is strange that there have been actions after the beginning of the settlement to be counted on. Especially with the cows in Norway, it is regrettable that acts between the jurisprudence and the settlement are not to be regarded as repeats. No later than the date on which the judgment is given, any person must understand that new acts are to be regarded as as as as serious as acts committed after the commencement of the proceedings. Crimes committed between judgment and restitution are, in fact, a very strong response from the population. The concept of ‘trafficking in human beings’, in the view of the Progress Party, has a broader framework than the majority seems to have in its assessment. The reason why the Progress Party has not joined the observation of the majority is not that we disagree with what is stated, but that it is important that other matters, such as forced labour, the removal of organs, etc. be included in what must be controlled. The government has this in the proposition presented to the Storting, and I choose to believe that the majority also supports this, even though their comments cannot be said to do so directly. In the case of child pornography, this is an evil which has proved to be difficult to combat effectively. This is largely due to the fact that the environments are reasonably closed. At this point, there's a similarity between rings that exchange child pornography and other organized crime. The Progress Party welcomes the increase in the penalties framework so that the same instruments can be used here as in combating other organised crime. It will also be important in terms of the need to be able to infiltrate environments, which we will come back to in a later case. I will deal with the proposals that the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e116	The representative, André Kukkestad, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e121	It is the Labour Party's hope that in this discussion you can also look back and look at what is the root of the various criminal acts that we are dealing with tonight. On that occasion, I would like to ask the representative of the Progress Party and the case rapporteur what is the reason why the majority's comments on trafficking in human beings are actually based on the reasons for this. All other lots point out ‘trading in human beings involves serious violations of human rights. Trafficking in people is a cynical exploitation of poverty-induced vulnerability that primarily affects women and children. That is why, in the view of this majority, trafficking in human beings is often also an expression of sexualised violence which is contrary to the principle of gender equality.’ It's an important formulation, which shows some of the underlying things. What is the reason why the Progress Party will not be involved in such a description of the background for trafficking in human beings?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e131	Had the representative Storberget listened to the article, a reply might not have been interesting – if he had not already decided to keep it. What I pointed out was that what the majority put into the concept of trafficking in human beings, which is women's oppressive and sexualized violence, is part of human trafficking, but not all. Trafficking in human beings is much, much more, and that's what we've been trying to find out in our remark, so that's not to snuff it in relation to the cynical trade in human beings that's going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e138	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e141	The Labour Party strongly supports the proposals made by the Government regarding organised crime and trafficking in human beings. Organised crime does not need protection and it is necessary that the tools put in place by the authorities to detect and respond to such serious cross-border crime deliver results. In this way, the importance of international cooperation is crucial. Among other things, through Schengen cooperation, the nation states can regain sovereignty and conquer some sovereignty that we do not have and that we have never really had. The Labour Party therefore welcomes the extension of the possibility of cross-border observation. All crime is organized to some extent. It is therefore good that the legislative proposal and the committee's proceedings set clear criteria and a threshold for what is covered by the legal provision on organised crime. The Committee has not chosen to define organised crime on the basis of participation in a criminal group, but prefers a federal clause. This is how we ensure – and this is important – that it is the very participation in a criminal act that you want to take, and not the participation in the group itself. It is a requirement that the perpetrator commit or contribute to a criminal act. After this, the criminal justice system in Norway will continue to operate with individual responsibility, and no collective criminal justice, even if collective conduct is made more criminal – as we also have more examples of today in the law. Even when applying the penalty tightening rule in Section 60(a), to which the Workers' Party gives its consent, individual roles within and outside the group shall be given weight in criminal evaluation. For the Workers' Party, it has also been important that offences such as child pornography offences and thefts are included in the provision on organised crime. The criminal aspects created by the organisation are certainly punishable in such cases — and more commonly. This will also make it easier to address the organisation as such and to prevent more serious criminal offences. We are getting closer to what has been an explicit goal for all criminal policies, to hit the organisation and those behind it. The Workers' Party is believed to have had a decent and sensible limit to the provision by means of the Committee's proposals. However, it is important that, after using all the methods and severest penalties, we do not define any criminal action within the definition of organised crime, and that we continue to ensure a graduated criminal justice system. In my view, the debate on repeaters shows to the full that in many respects we see the inadequacy of criminal law and that we politicians must also dry up looking for different instruments. Through international obligations, Norway is obliged to criminalise trafficking in human beings. The Workers' Party supports the legislation submitted and believes that it should now be done. In addition, the working party is pleased with the justification given against the root image of trafficking in human beings. The Committee agrees, with the exception of the Progress Party. The uncertainty associated with today’s law is thus cleared of the road. I am pleased that the Socialist Left will not wait for the Penal Peace Commission in this field, as they strongly argue on the issue of combating organised crime – despite proposing the drastic instruments in the investigation. Trafficking in human beings is, as the word seaman expresses, gross violation of human dignity, most often in the background of unfair distribution and poverty. This is again a field where criminal law becomes only a small part of the solution. We, as a rich country, cannot in the long run discharge ourselves from liability for this kind of crime by just punishing the direct perpetrator. We have a greater responsibility. Unfortunately, criminal law enforcement and investigation methods tend to be used. The underlying causes will cost too much to touch. It should be hoped that today’s legislative change will not only contribute to inaction in relation to the measures that can reduce the scale of problems: fairer distribution, less market governance and better social systems, both nationally and globally. One of the major criminal policy challenges we face is the creation of a penal system that creates less repeaters. For a long time, more prison sentences against these have been prescribed — as is the case today. The rate of relapse shows us that we have to think differently. The Workers' Party cannot therefore support the Government's proposals for a general increase in the penalties for repeaters. There is reason to recall that criminal law, both in law and in court, is being used in Norway today to intensify criminal punishment for those who commit criminal offences again. In addition, the penalties are already well known: we use lower penalties, and there is actually a lot left to go on. In 2001, 9 200 unconditional prison sentences were passed. It's estimated to be more than 50 pst. of these say about repeaters. We know that of those punished, 85 pst. men. A total of over 44 pst. by those who were punished, under the age of 25. We know this, and we're facing a situation where over 2,500 are in line waiting for their measured response. This is where the challenge lies for us criminals. In addition, a report from the Swedish Criminal Office shows that prison use is much more frequent in Norway than in the other Nordic countries. You have 28 pst. He served his sentence outside prison in Norway, with a total of 65pst. alternative form of punishment in Sweden. 60-70 pst. In prisons in Norway, illicit drugs are regularly used. The provision of rehabilitation for prisoners with drug problems varies greatly from one institution to another. Between 200 and 300 individual seizures of drugs per year in prison illustrate some of the things we are talking about here. Many of those in prison use illegal and legal drugs while they are in prison. Last year, prisons also had to use security cells to isolate prisoners 359 times. There is an increase of 27 pst, compared to 2000, when 282 prisoners were isolated on security cells. Estimates show that there are at all times between 70 and 100 prisoners who should have been in hospitals rather than in prison. A survey last year showed that at least 86 of the prisoners should have been in an institution other than prison. It is estimated that every five prisoners have mental problems. Most people who have problems are prisoners with long-term drug abuse behind them. Many are repeaters who urgently need help. As a rule, attempts at suicide or some other form of violent behaviour result in the use of coercion. What, in the view of the Workers' Party, really gives cause for concern is that the number of those who receive treatment while in arrears according to Section 12 both in old and in new legislation – § 12-soning – seems to go downhill. It's worrying if we really want to do something about repeat crime. In addition to this, while establishing a stronger regime with stricter penalties, we see that the local authorities of Norway are only getting worse and worse at meeting the challenges of giving, among other things. youth a good and preventive leisure service. These are illustrations from Oslo, and Søndre Nordstrand is thus a good example of the fact that as we adopt stricter penalties for repeaters, who are often younger men, the municipalities have an economic situation that has resulted in cutting back on what is active and good leisure activities. This is a development that we have to get away from. This is where the main challenge in terms of combating crime among younger people is actually lying. There's this government not getting caught up in. Is it any wonder that we then believe that the proposal in relation to the repeater's punishment today is actually going to be a derailment in order to solve the problems that have arisen? If we want to kill crime, we have to enter a completely different arena. We touched it on the previous issue, on the conflict council. It is precisely in finding these alternative measures that the Government is largely failing in its proposals. Increased resources, which could really be monstrous, not only to escape the reconciliation queue, but also to improve the quality of criminal care, have not been provided, as the Workers' Party has proposed in recent years' budgets. We miss the government's analysis of this field in relation to repeaters. We miss the government's analysis of who this is, and what kind of need for help these people want. The right-hand side's demand for stricter penalties for those who are perhaps the most struggling, also seems, unfortunately, to get full penetration also far into the Christian People's Party, a party that is traditionally well known for attacking people's drug problems with completely different instruments than what we see sketched here. In 2001, 2,800 persons were averaged in Norwegian prisons. This is the highest figure ever measured in Norway, an increase of 11 pst. in relation to the previous year. According to criminal services, the number of available settlements increased by 109 over the same period. The question is, do we dare think differently? Do we have to move the political debate in a direction where not just proposing stricter penalties, especially for repeaters, is met with political arguments that we are soft about criminal policy? Do we dare to think differently, so that alternative measures that actually contribute to rehabilitation, and help us not to get repeaters, are, in fact, what is in the long run a tough criminal policy, perhaps not against those who are going into prison, but perhaps for us who are going to participate in the political change of words and create some legitimacy around it that other measures are actually needed to get repeaters to the right cool? The fight against crime requires that of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e186	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e189	The representative of Storberget spent a lot of time explaining why the Workers' Party is going against criminal atrocities for repeat crime. The Great Mountain tries to produce the criminal atrophy as if all repeat offenders are drug addicts. Of course it's not like that. They are without respect for people's lives and health and property to be affected by this provision. Drug users who commit criminal offences are at the very heart of getting the most effective treatment, e.g. drug users who commit criminal offences. in a treatment institution, by conditional judgment with special conditions. I'm surprised that Storberget doesn't trust the good judge. What is the Workers' Party really going to do to stop the notorious criminals, who actually pose a great threat to society?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e196	Let it be said right away: you cannot distinguish between those convicted of criminal offences, between those who are drug addicts and those who do not respect the property of others, as the representative Hofstad categorized those who are now to be achieved through this criminal atrocities. In the view of the Labour Party, it is obvious that drug problemers who commit criminal acts today obviously lack respect for the property of others. That's what we have to do. That's where I miss the experience of the right-hand side. What makes them think that there is more prison time to solve the problems for them? For the Labour Party, we have sought, through budgetary intervention, a better commitment to the quality of criminal justice, but have been reduced in the last two budgets. We want to bet on alternative responses far beyond today's, with more community punishment, and there are issues about §12 zoning – maybe it should be considered mandatory, we need to get speed on §12 soning if we're going to bring this to life – and other criminal responses we can use, that actually work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e206	SV and the Workers' Party tend to stand together in part of our criticism of the ministry's way of carrying out legal work. In this case, I am disappointed in the Workers' Party. I thought that it would have been possible to get the Workers' Party on the SV's pending attitude towards introducing a general penalty tightening – a dramatic increase in the penal framework if it has been demonstrated that organised crime has been committed. My question to Storberget is: When Storberget first goes out hard against Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum, and says that here it goes terribly fast in the swings, and then decides to go anyway for everything that the department presents, where is the credibility of?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e213	I stand by the criticism that has been made in the past about a number of legislative proposals in which we believe that the process around it has gone too fast. With regard to the issue of organised crime and the question of the criminal framework and the impunity of this, there has never really been any doubt as to where we stand, either in our programme or in our policy. This is fully in line with our position. At the same time, I want to replicate to the Socialist Left, who at one moment, in terms of organised crime, says that they will wait for the Penal Court and take better time, and at the other moment, in terms of the issue of trafficking in human beings, are in favour of one of the most drastic methods and are proposing an extension of untraditional investigation methods, without any particular preparation beyond what has been in the process here, that it becomes a little eye-catching, to what extent one will require preparation – perhaps in terms of what is most opportunistic for one's own political position. When it comes to organized crime, I have to say from the left-hand side that there is no point in speaking for this to have any protection whatsoever, and that should actually be of the most severe punishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e222	Storberget criticised the current government in order to strengthen local criminal services, a criticism that could be perceived as having been the cause of a better community economy in the past. I dare remind you that when, as rapporteur in 1994, I found it appropriate to launch a nationwide action called the Poor Communiqué Action, it was not least directed at the time of the municipal minister Gunnar Berge. So there's been a rich tradition of poor care here in this country in terms of this relationship. If we dare think differently, the representative asked Storberget questions about it. I don't think there's a need for a lot of innovation. I think we've actually seen what we need to see. The question is whether a person should be able to balance this in a better form than now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e231	I'm always excited when the story is going to be invoked, how far back you're going to go. Now I realized it wasn't for Sylvia Brustad, but it was all the way back to Gunnar Berge. It makes me feel pretty calm – not because it's Gunnar Berge, but mainly because I have to say with respect that in today's political situation there should not have been any house passing by that there are some political differences in the question of what kind of local economy the Labour Party wants to put on, and what the government parties want to put on. It is obvious from our point of view that the policy of actually feeding the public sector food contributes to more crime, while at the same time tightening the response. It's societies that we shouldn't compare with, and it's societies that have tried it before, that show that there's an expensive way to fight crime. In the municipalities where the leisure clubs go first, there may be a greater need for repeater punishment, but that's not the situation we want. We want to prevent criminal acts from happening at all. In that way, I think the Government has disappointed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e238	Two years ago, it was a big shot. Then we heard the big parties of the Workers' Party. Then the state councils traveled around Norway to tell them how good it was to live in Norway, how great it was to live in municipalities, the local economy was good and the care was good – there were a number of things that were good in 2001. But it was perhaps because it was the Workers' Party that ran. Suddenly, now, two years later, we've landed our bunch of school losers, we've got problems in the care of Russo, we have municipalities that are struggling, etc., etc. However, the rapporteurs of the Labour Party are now fighting for some of the municipal policy instruments that are being implemented, among other things. more local self-government. Then is my question to Knut Storberget: What contrast is there between stricter penalties for repeaters and the local economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e245	It's actually an answer I think the representative Dybevig should come with himself, all the time he's festering a political line in which one actually cultivates the tightening up of the municipal budgets, beyond what my own party stands for. My thesis, and our thesis, is, in fact, that the societies that are now cultivating the cheapest possible public sector, and which are almost like night scale states to count, are also the societies that have the most problems with regard to neocrime. It is then sad that the political majority's answer is that it must be tackled with stronger instruments – only when the criminal has done so. This is where the Labour Party believes Norway has had a great advantage. The reason why the number of criminal acts is low is that we have had a solid safety net out in the municipalities. To the extent that it begins to crack, I think it will be an expensive experiment that will require far more than more stringent repeat penalties.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e250	It is always nice to hear the extent to which recreational clubs and cultural appropriations reduce crime. There's something the Working Party often claims, at least when they're in opposition. What I could expect to get an answer to is how much the Workers' Party will now contribute to the municipalities' cultural budgets, and what effect they expect it to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e257	I can't tell you how much we're going to spend on the country's municipalities' cultural budgets, so I can comfort the assembly that it will not hear – if I had known it. But the point is, when the municipal economy gets as tight as it is in the municipalities now, we see that it's not the legal tasks that go first. It is not for nothing that at Tynset, at Hamar, in Eastfold and on Søndre Nordstrand, it is leisure for young people who have smoked first. And that worries me about the crime scene. I'm worried that the Progress Party, which is going to be Crime Fighter No. 1, in fact, those who are now proposing a repeat sentence – down to the age of 16. If a 17-year-old has stolen a car twice, you need a 30-year-old upper penalty. So it's more than triple-drap, more than terrorist attacks, etc. And it's going to be the answer to Norwegian youth who's going to end up on the slope. Then we're on wild roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e264	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e267	I think we'll have to wait with the municipal proposition until it's debated. I was going to say a little bit about this matter: organized crime, trafficking in human beings and the punishment of repeaters. The criminal environments are becoming tougher, the criminals are operating across borders, organized criminal environments are ruthless and brutal, and aim at breaking down democratic institutions and our social order. This is the reality we have to deal with, and that's the reality the government has been dealing with by that Ot.prp. No 62 was submitted to Stortinget. The starting point is to combat organised crime and trafficking in human beings. These are international issues, which require cross-border cooperation and action. In this context, it is important that Norway also adheres to its international commitments. The extent and severity of many of these conditions require that one should pay particular attention to the fact that these are not random acts, but that there are essentially planned and calculated conditions. It is therefore very gratifying that the Committee endorses, in whole or in part, the measures proposed by the Government. In the case of organised crime, this is a serious threat to society that must be combated by different strategies. The government proposes five different measures to combat organised crime. First of all, the Ministry proposes a new criminal order in the criminal law that will provide a framework for the conclusion of an agreement to commit serious criminal offences as part of the activities of an organised criminal group. Secondly, the Ministry proposes a new general provision on penalties for acts carried out as part of the activities of an organised criminal group. Following the proposal, the penalties will be increased until twice as much as in such cases, but not by more than 5 years of imprisonment as an additional penalty. Thirdly, the Department proposes a new penal order against trafficking in human beings. The proposed criminal order affects the backers and others who contribute to the exploitation of people, for example: prostitution or forced labour. The offender goes beyond the protocol by also affecting the person who, in the event of violence, threat, abuse of a vulnerable position or other improper behaviour, exploits a person for specific purposes. Fourth, the Ministry proposes to extend access to the temporary transfer of prisoners in order to assist in obtaining evidence for the use of investigation or prosecution in another Convention country. Fifthly, the Ministry proposes to extend access to cross-border observation, so that foreign police officers would be able to search for non-suspected persons if there are grounds to believe that this would help to identify or track the suspect. The Committee endorses these five strategies but wishes to go further in a few areas. We have recently seen news reports of thefts that systematically empty shops for expensive cosmetics and other goods. This is an activity which is most organised crime and which should be covered by the new provision on organised crime. Therefore, everyone, with the exception of the Socialist Left, proposes to change the definition of an ‘organised criminal group’ so that the requirement of a criminal penalty for the crimes changes from at least four years to at least three years. This will also allow advanced methods to be used against organised theft. Another focus of the public debate is organised networks of pedophiles that exchange pictures and films of sexual abuse against children. The penalty for this in the pornography clause of the penal law § 204 is today two years. The same majority of the committee, i.e. all except SV, is proposing to extend it to three years. This allows the police to use several methods for investigating such cases. I would like to stress that this applies to those who exclusively exchange pictures and films. Those who themselves exploit children, films or otherwise participate in the production and description of sexual abuse against children will be affected by other paragraphs, with much higher penalties. It is important to stress that the extension of the criminal sanctions framework for organised crime is most important in cases of relatively low penalties. A double here will allow for extended methodology. In cases where there is a high level of criminality, it is already possible to use advanced methods of investigation. That is why we are proposing to increase the penalties by up to five years. The working party is involved in the changes the Committee has made, while the SV does not comment. Both parties are concerned that changes are being made during the course of the investigation in Stortinget, they write in a note and that the hearing bodies have not been given an opinion on the changes made. The fact that there are changes during the deliberations is what I would call policy. There are negotiations resulting from agreed proposals, proposals for which a majority is created in this Chamber. I can mention the proposals made by the nursery friends last year. Much can be said about that matter, but politics is, even if the hearing bodies or the government and the ministry were not given any opinion on the proposals that were adopted. In a big deal like ours, the government parties must at times make compromises that go beyond the government's proposals. It can be problematic. In this case, it is quite unproblematic, and I am glad that we agreed with the Progress Party on this matter, and I am pleased that the Labour Party joins the proposed restrictions on pedophile networks, and lowers the requirement from four to three years of criminal sanctions in order to be able to be covered by the term ‘organised criminal group’. Today, Norway has no specific criminal order that explicitly targets trafficking in human beings. However, more provisions of the penal law and other laws can be applied to acts carried out in connection with trafficking in human beings. Norway signed the Protocol on trafficking in human beings at the same time as the Convention was signed on 13 December 2000. By ratifying the Protocol, Norway will commit itself to criminalising trafficking in human beings and to ensuring assistance and protection of victims of trafficking in human beings. Trafficking in human beings involves serious violations of human rights. Trafficking in human beings is a cynical exploitation, primarily affecting women and children. Therefore, trafficking in human beings is often also an expression of sexualised violence, which is contrary to the principle of gender equality. Many of those exploited by traffickers are minors. They are in addition to being victims of a criminal act, including deprived care, family life, education and other basic rights that all children need and require. Here we are talking about a serious form of profit-motivated and organised crime, which threatens the most fundamental principles of human value. The government’s proposal for a separate penalty order against trafficking in human beings is a follow-up to the Action Plan against trafficking in women and children, presented on 12 February 2003. There may be circumstances which fall within the scope of Article 3 of the Protocol but which are not affected by any Norwegian criminal order. There is therefore a need for a separate criminal order against trafficking in human beings in order for Norway to be able to ratify the UN Protocol on trafficking in human beings. A separate ban on trafficking in human beings will provide more transparent legislation, and it is also important for educational reasons. Furthermore, in the interests of international cooperation to combat trafficking in human beings, it is appropriate that legislation in the field in different countries be equivalent. It is therefore positive that the majority of the Committee subscribes to the proposed amendments to Section 224 of the Penal Code. International cooperation is important in the fight against organised crime. The Schengen Agreement gives us a very important tool in this way. The government proposes amendments to Section 20 of the Police Act to extend access to cross-border observation. Among other things, criminal offences such as gross fraud, trafficking in human beings, money laundering, illicit trafficking in nuclear and radioactive substances, terrorist acts and participation in criminal groups are covered by access to cross-border observation. This is very important, more and more of the criminal groups don't know and don't care about borders. It is therefore very gratifying that an overall committee supports the Government's proposed legislative changes in this area, which are then part of the Schengen cooperation. The Penal Code does not have a general provision that strengthens the penalty framework by repetition. In most cases, the framework is the same, regardless of whether the perpetrator is previously convicted or not. But a number of sentencings tighten the sentence by repetition. Many of them relate to winning, violence, and sexual crimes. If there's something people most react to, it's the criminal who commits crime after crime without this seemingly affecting the level of punishment. Repentant crime is something that needs to be punished harder. The government considers that the penalty tightening that has taken place in recent years is not sufficient for repeaters. This group must be able to react strictly to society. I am pleased that the Government will have a majority in favour of the proposals on repeat crime. The majority are the government parties and the Progress Party, which will subsidly support the proposals. The ministry is in favour of tightening up the punishment for repeat crime and proposes further inclusion in the criminal law of a general criminal code which provides for the criminal penalties to be tightened up by up to twice if a former convicted person re- commits a criminal offence of the same nature as he was previously convicted of. An upper limit of up to five years extra prison is set. At the same time, the Ministry proposes that it be made clear in the Penal Code that repetition is one of the factors justifying the setting of a longer probationary period than two years. The maximum probationary period that can be determined is five years. Many of the repeat offenders are, as Knut Storberget was about, drug addicts. In this context, it is important to stress that their criminal offences are not less punishable. At the same time, I would point out that criminals who get rid of their drug problem will also to a large extent cut out the criminal track. It is therefore important to focus on interventions against drug users, including drug users. by extending Section 12 zone. I am pleased that the Stortinge creates a majority for all the proposed legislative changes. The fight against organised crime and repeat crime will be tough. We're doing a lot of important work today, and we'll do more work if it turns out to be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e330	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e334	We agree that in most cases where we have repeaters, there are people with drug problems who commit the repeated crimes. It is often a matter of less winning crimes in order to obtain money for drug consumption. I know about examples from my own municipality, people who have been put in, they've come out again, the apartment is gone, they've lost the opportunity to get a job, and it's been a round dance. But rehabilitation and aftercare have actually given results, and they can show that they have been drug-free for a long time. Why does the Right do not realize this fact, that efforts need to be directed to the root of the problems, focusing on prevention, strong after-care and rehabilitation? What is the reason why the Right does not realize this, but only shouts for increased penalties?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e339	The representative of Red Road is going to try to be elected rapporteur in Oppdal, and I am sure that some of what his citizens will be concerned about is that criminals who are still plagued by the local environment, who are making new invasions, who might knock down people, who are doing other attacks, must be kept away from the community, at least until they have become fit. It's just the dual strategy that the Government is now adding, and that the Workers' Party is completely ignoring. There has probably never been as much effort on § 12 zoning, there has never been as much effort on drug prevention as this government puts up. We do it at the same time as we say that those who pose a threat to society, those who endanger the lives and health of others, those who contribute to the destruction of the lives of others, are to be kept away from society. That's why we're imposing a repeat sentence, and that's why we're tightening up the punishment. It's a good criminal policy, and it's also a good policy towards the people of this country who are afraid of criminals who can still come back and make new mistakes, make new abuses, make new violent acts. We do not want that. We want rehabilitation, but we also want punishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e344	Finally, this is a strategy that everyone agrees on. After all, we are not going to abandon the criminal trail if we do not support the proposal to tighten up the punishment for repeat crime. But let's take as an example a substance abuser who is charged with two cases of burglary from a car and is convicted of simple theft earlier. The penalty for gross theft is six years, because of competition it is to be increased to twelve, because of repetition it is further doubled, and we are approaching then 20 years. The real punishment such people get for a car break-in is approx. 30 days - if it becomes a strict judgment, maybe 45 days. Let's say we double that. That's the room for today's punishment. My question is the same question that the representative Dybevig had to me: What would the Right propose to get speed and volume in the Section 12 zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e349	It is at least nice that the representative of Storberget is concerned about what the Government will do to extend §12 sonship, because it is this government that has expanded it. During the Labour Party government, it was probably not that strange when it came to betting on that kind of action – now we have put more effort into it. I am sure that with the pressure in the Justice Committee, which is here at Stortinget, this is an area that will be focused on rehabilitation in the future. So my question back -- if there's been a pingpong war here, where you ask each other questions -- is to the Workers' Party: what about the victims of this crime, which the Great Mountain completely ignores? Here we're talking about sexual crimes, we're talking about profit crime, and we're talking about violent crimes. It goes without saying that if we're going to have a legal state that people trust, we have to give tougher punishment when someone keeps repeating the crime. It can't be that if you do one, two, three, four or five burglaries, it doesn't mean anything, because you get the same punishment anyway. Here, I think we're on the right track. But we also need to have the second track, namely rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e356	The representative of Greece was concerned with combating reoccurrence crime. On that basis, I would like to get an explanation as to why criminal acts should only be founded after the beginning of atonement. Why can't you relate to a judicial verdict? This is because the case complex has been finally decided. Is this perhaps due to the enormous trust of the representative of Greece in the prison system after one day's atonement? But how are you going to act if you have only conditional judgment or fine? Are you going to say that this does not apply because you have not done so, or are you going to make a valid judgment or pay a fine? And in that case, why can't you deal with the judgment of law in the first place?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e361	I'm not as concerned about the fine light as André Kukkestad is. I think it is important that we now give a signal that repeat crime should be punished harder. That's what a has to add up to, that's what we want to send. I am pleased that the Progress Party wishes to subsidize this. As they say in their comments, this is 'a step in the right direction'. That the Progress Party wants to go a lot further is a discussion we can of course come back to, but the important thing here is that we actually take action that makes criminals who are inside to atoning and come out again and do new criminal acts will get a stricter punishment. That's something that's good, and I think will also be positive with most people and their perception of how the law is practiced, how the state of law Norway deals with criminals. That's important, so we can rather have a discussion about the fine light when it's appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e366	The representative of Greece obviously has a strong commitment to Norwegian victims for example: moral crimes. Then I can tell you that the auxiliaries for people who are sexually assaulted are extremely miserable. What really matters to these victims is that the punishment comes quickly. When we then have a paycheck of 2,762 judges, it is far more serious than not getting a double of the penalties for the crimes in question. I can also inform you that, for example: §§ 192, 195, 196 and 200 are already allowed to tighten the penalties when repeating a criminal act. So what the representative of Greece argues with is not really real. In relation to drug users, Greece admits that the individual preventive effect of increasing the level of penalties is almost illusory. Then I believe it will be especially when this government is paying so little attention to criminal care and so little to rehabilitation and after-protection as it is now doing. This is simply not going to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e373	I should like to see the representative of Thorkildsen show me if there is any government that has invested more in the areas she has now listed than this government has done. Is there any government that has invested more in this? No, it doesn't. It's going to be offensive. There are still issues that go on drug treatment, and there are issues in the Justice Committee that go on rehabilitation. It's going to bet on this, but it's not like we have a Sarepta pot. But we're prioritizing this, and we want to prioritize it. I am most surprised that the representative of Thorkildsen, who is so concerned with victims of sexual abuse, and especially against children, would not be able to increase the penalties from two to three years when this was the case with pedophile networks. It is a strange signal to send out from SV, a party that usually – and at least the representative Thorkildsen – is very concerned about punishing those who participate in that type of activity. So I'm surprised that SV is the only party that doesn't join the proposal to lift the penalty for pedophile networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e380	The representative of Greece, our committee leader, whom I often see as a «hardliner», has also demonstrated this time in the debate, at least I think it is. At the same time, in order to carry out the ambitions of the committee leader and the majority here, it is necessary that we have funds at our disposal. I have been involved in debates with Mr. Greece in the past, and we have debated the terms of the police, we have debated the terms of criminal law, and there is no doubt, at least at my discretion, that the two mentioned agencies – we can add the courts too – are struggling to get appropriations for what they want to do, and the level of ambition they have. My question then becomes quite simply to the representative of Greece: is the representative of Greece satisfied with today's allocation to these sectors in the field of justice?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e387	It is true that when a worker works with one sector, one becomes particularly concerned with that sector. There are many areas within the state budget, both the sector I worked with before, which was family, culture and administration, and justice, where one could have solved the tasks better, but also sometimes through the allocation of resources. But when that is said, I would say that I am very pleased with the support given to the Government by the Progress Party in many contexts in trying out new, untraditional actions in the justice sector, including. in the case of catch transport, and inter alia: in the case of opportunities to finance prisons in another way. These are measures that can also release resources within our sector, and with which we must go further. I am very happy that it is now launching pilot projects, among other things. by means of prisoner transport, which has become one of the largest clamps on the foot both for criminal law and not least for police. Then we'll see when the budget comes, if the representative of Greece is satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e394	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e398	SV believes that organised crime is extremely serious. Norway must give priority to preventing and combating organised crime, and it is right both to punish this crime more severely and to give the police good working conditions and opportunities to reveal and combat it. It is likely that the majority of this crime is controlled by backers who have international biases and, in addition, more resources than the gang criminal has in Norway. However, SV believes that it would be beneficial if the Department had done as the Law Association recommended in the consultation round, namely to limit § 162(c) to the conclusion of a covenant for specific criminal offences, rather than to leave the penalty framework decisive. We think this would have resulted in a greater degree of precision, which the proposals could certainly have done well. However, when the Ministry attached the provision to criminal sanctions and set this limit at four years, SV considered this to be the second best option. In other words, the Committee’s setting could have been unanimous in the case of § 162(c). The fact that the vote is not unanimous, however, has a simple explanation: the proposal has been amended on the initiative of the government parties, so that the penalty framework has now been lowered to three years. This happened the night before the committee was to give its opinion on the matter, without SV having a real opportunity to assess this properly, without the hearing bodies having the opportunity to express their views or raise objections, and – I believe – first of all to sign the Progress Party, which initially does not want any delimitation in terms of the criminal framework. By lowering the requirement from four to three years, the majority will achieve inclusion of theft. In addition, the majority decided — in fact at the delivery meeting — to propose that child pornography should also be included. They didn't do this by explicitly mentioning these crimes in the law, but by raising the penalties for child pornography from two to three years, which SV in itself doesn't have anything against in the first place, in fact I think we could support it. But – there's a big butt. SV believes that the laws of the country are too important for them to receive such an easy-to-use treatment. SV believes that there is reason to remind the government parties that there is a reason why the department is responsible for preparing legislative proposals and that there is a reason why we have consultation rounds. Often, and especially when it is the Ministry of Justice that sends letters of hearing, at least I have the impression, there is a lot of information about, among other things. Immediate consequences and possible objections often taken into account by the Department — fortunately — Misunderstanding me correctly: SV believes it is good that theft and child pornography should also be covered by the provision on what should be punishable as organised crime, but we believe that this must be resolved by explicitly mentioning these crimes in the paragraph, not by lowering the requirement for the penalty framework without checking what other possible consequences such a rapid operation may have. In fact, I believe that many hearing bodies will respond when they hear what has happened here. I have already been in contact with some of them, and they have slowly expressed some wonder about the processes in the Justice Committee. SV would like to await the treatment of the criminal prosecution commission's position before considering the issue of how to increase the penalties for acts committed in an organised manner should be implemented. We think it is unfortunate to adopt a general criminal code, and in particular to adopt such a general rule now, since, after all, it is left to a Commission to look at the entire criminal code in the context and propose changes, which should be seen in the context. In addition, the consultation round on this proposition gives reason to believe that the Ministry does not fully understand the consequences of their own proposals, and one can ask the question whether it is such that in some cases the ministry believes it is more important to act quickly than to act wisely. Very many hearing bodies have been critical of introducing a general criminal code. The reason is that this is thought to be in breach of the system set up by the Penal Court, that the proposal has adverse procedural consequences, and that there will be an unfairly wide framework for less serious crimes, while the more serious crimes are little affected by new §60a. SV believes that there is reason to do something slower in such matters as this, in order to be sure that we actually get a tool that can be used and that does not have unforeseen effects like this. ensure that the courts are unduly charged, that the law is not sufficiently precise and precise to ensure its effectiveness, or that innocent people are convicted or subjected to very burdensome surveillance. In addition, we already have good experience in the fact that the courts are tightening up the sentence where it has been shown that the offence was committed under organised law, and there are very many provisions in today's legislation that provide good opportunities to extend the punishment, in line with the wishes of the Justice Committee. I would like to remind you that Agder Lawyers' Law, Borgarting Lawyers' Law, the Criminal Court's Committee, the National Attorney's Office, Oslo State Attorney's Office and Hordaland State Attorney's Offices were opposed to introducing a general penalty law such as the Ministry has designed § 60 a. SV. Supporting these very heavy hearing bodies in this regard, and asking the Ministry to come back to the matter in connection with the Storting to deal with the suspension of the Criminal Felon Commission. Unfortunately, we must note that we are sadly alone to mean this. SV is pleased that we are now receiving our own penal order for trafficking in human beings. However, like the Riksadvokat and the Oslo police district, SV believes that it should be possible to make use of communication interception even in the case of simple infringements of this paragraph, i.e. where the penalty framework is five years and not ten. In addition, SV disagrees that the so-called halicon paragraph is now changing, because we fear that fewer rascals will be condemned with the change that is now being adopted. I have noticed that the department and government parties reject this, and hope that the reality is also as it is said here. However, I am skeptical, pointing out that the PRO Centre warns against the change, and they claim that legal protection is weakened for the women and men who are subordinate to a lunatic, but where there is neither coercion nor violence within the image. To the representative of Greece, I would like to say that the question of whether there is any other government that has invested more in treatment and after protection than this government seems to me completely uninteresting. What's actually interesting is whether that happens enough. So SV means it doesn't happen enough. Whether it's a workers' party government or the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left in government that are the most bets, is actually not interesting in this context – that's how much is being done. I think all ordinary people will agree with me on that. The internal debate between the parties that have been in government is completely irrelevant to this discussion. In relation to the proposal for a general doubling of the penalties for repeat crime, I have to say that I would have had more sense of it if there had been a real, thorough work in the drug field, and if there had been a real, thorough work to care for, for example. victims of sexual assault. We know that a number of vesicles have been subjected to sexual assault. If this government had made a real effort, for example. Alternatives to violence and the treatment of violent perpetrators, and made sure that the violence was discovered when it happens, as early as possible, and put in action there and then, so that no young people end up as violent perpetrators of it, which we know they do, or as victims – quite depending on sex, in fact – I had more sense of the proposal. If this government had really invested in § 12 zoning in practice, if this government had really done something to drag psychiatric patients out of prison and into psychiatric institutions, where they belong, if this government had made sure that there were no mentally retarded people and weaved on Ila, then I would slowly have had more respect for the proposal that has come. We know a little bit about the Norwegian prisoner population. We know, for example. that maybe as many as 70-80 pst. of those in prison have a drug problem to a greater or lesser extent. We know well that over 50 pst., maybe 70-80 pst., of those who are inside today, are already repeaters. We also know that we have a housing problem in Norway, with very many homeless people. I have been one of those who have made proposals, which have been dealt with in the Storting earlier today, on measures for the homeless – especially for people who come directly from prison and directly from institutional residence, but it was downcast. Of course, everyone fully agrees that it is extremely important to ensure the homeless place to live, that it is extremely important to provide rehabilitation, that it is extremely important to provide Section 12 zoning, etc. There's at all a touching consensus on these things, on the paper. But when it comes to money, when it comes to budgets, when it comes to priorities, that is for example. the rich in Holmenkollen and their tax relief needs that stand at the forefront of the queue. And then I think it's actually going to be extra bad when you're in favour of a policy of increasing differences – where we have major drug problems, which will still be a problem, among other things. because § 12-sonship has fallen since 1996, despite the fact that we have several sentences for intoxication – with open eyes leading to a policy that gives over 2 700 people in pay queues. That's actually the main problem of today's criminal policy, that there are so many in line that they almost don't remember what they're convicted of when they first come in to zone. It is a major violation of the victims who, among other things, The representative of Greece strikes his chest over being so concerned. If this government really wants to do something about crime, then this government should make sure to bring about a really good community economy, then this government should ensure that there are fewer differences between people, and then this government should make sure to get a §12 soning that it really does melt off, so that people get the opportunity to zone at the institution, get the opportunity to zone at the Stifender and not least get the opportunity to implement a scheme when they get out of prison. That's where it really fails now, in the post-protection. And then I actually think that by worrying about post-protection and worrying about prevention, you really worry about the victims, because what they notice is that there is no change in the long term. If we want people to get out on the other side of prison as new and better people who don't commit assaults on others or commit new criminal acts, we'll make sure to prioritize the content of the settlement, and not the length of the punishment first. Because when you choose to prioritize the length of the punishment first, you increase the number of settlement queues. This increases the pressure on prisons, and thus the poorer quality of the settlement, which means that fewer people go out on the other side as better citizens. The government knows that, and the representative of Greece knows that well, but it still doesn't do anything about it, because it seems that you are more effective if you provide sanctions that are known enough to make people think that something has been done. But I think you ask people who they want to have as a neighbor, one who's been in prison, sitting on Ila, for example, without an exit through an open-ended facility, via a shelter, who's been sitting there for many, many years, or a person who's been on open-ended shelter or on Stifinner, who's been in treatment, relief and a real aftercare, and I think that the people of Norway will actually agree with me that it's the last thing that actually works in relation to crime. And then I think that okay, it's okay that it's still said away from this pulpit, from justice politicians in Norway, that we're going to bet on post-protection, we're going to bet on content and rehabilitation. However, when increasing penalties continues to be a priority, increasing penalties, getting more people in prison over a long period of time, criminal policy does not, in fact, have objectives. I think that's actually an extra offense to those affected by that crime, and it's basically not us. This, I think, is sad, because it seems like you're doing something that's going to be effective against crime. It seems like you're taking the victims seriously. So in reality, you're doing the exact opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e435	The President would point out that, according to Section 60 of the Rules of Procedure, the proceedings of the Committee before the suspension of the sitting must be confidential. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e440	I would like to thank the President for accusing the representative of her statements on the process, so we don't let anyone else comment on SV's contribution. Enquiry larger resources to the criminal sector. I just want to say that with one or two years of SV's draft state budget, the Norwegian welfare offer would have rotted. And why? Because SV has no focus on income. The only thing they focus on is taxing people so that they don't generate income to the state. ‘Many cymbals make a big toe’ is a Norwegian saying. The SV and the Labour Party point out that there has been a missing drug policy and a missing school policy. Yes, most of the post-war period is the Workers' Party, with the support of SV, which has run Norwegian politics, and they like to take credit for this when they can. Then I would like to ask: a repetition of 15 crimes – which are school losers, but it is perhaps too late to put him in rehabilitation in relation to it – does society not have a right to protection against such a person, to be confirmed against this person that this type of activity is not acceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e449	First, I would like to mention the suggestions that SV has in the setting. As for the question from the representative Dybevig, I believe that the most important thing that can be done to prevent people from developing a criminal racetrack is that the reaction comes quickly. When we then have more than 2,700 in queue and there is little willingness to think about alternative forms of reconciliation, when there is still a resistance in large parts of the prosecution authority to use e.g. Social sanctions, I mean, then we don't do our job, then criminal policy doesn't work effectively. It is not that there are rational actors around this country, counting on how long they will be punished if they commit that crime instead of that crime, and if two crimes of the same kind are committed instead of two different crimes. That's not how it works. What works is that the reaction comes quickly and that it's right. And I think that the representative Dybevig actually agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e456	The representative No Marte Thorkildsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e459	First of all, I would like to say, as case rapporteur, that all processes can always get better, but in between, it can also be so that the one criticising should go in itself also with other things. But I'll leave it here. What amazes me is, on the one hand, a strong focus on abuse against women and children and, on the other hand, that it is not so important to punish the exchange of child pornographic images. It seems to me that this falls under SV's criminal policy philosophy, which approaches the fact that the truly weak are not the victims, but the perpetrators – perhaps with the exception of those who commit violence against women at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e466	The representative of Kukkestad knows just as well as I do that we didn't agree to this, it's about legal reasons. I understand that I am not allowed to say anything about why we did not agree to this. But I felt like I had to say that the reason why we couldn't just accept it was that this came over the table in the delivery meeting. I'm sorry, but I've already said that, and now I repeat it. I realize it's wrong, but that's the only way I can explain why we did this. I believe that there may be good reasons to raise the penalties to three years. This was about organised crime, about wanting to achieve something else, namely to lower the penalties from four to three years in Section 167(c). And then the penalties for child pornography were raised in order to get it under Section 167(c). After contacting the lawyer, we chose to do this in a different way, because we doubted. This is not about material disagreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e475	The representative of Thorkildsen has many informants and rarely fails to tell us about it from Stortinget's pulpit. This day she has referred several times to the views and experience of Red Barna. On Sunday evening, a representative of the Red Barna stood out in Dagsrevyen and commended the proposal to all parties except SV in favour of organised pedophile networks. Instead of facilitating the care of the children – as the rest of the parties in the committee do – SV supports the fact that the proposed provision violates the systematic Criminal Felon Commission. Does the representative of Thorkildsen realise that she is giving a strong signal of emergency in an increasing problem area? Does the representative realize that she and SV remain on the platform when all the other parts of the train have gone?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e484	I thought honesty was a virtue, especially when you're a Christian. But it is clear that this does not apply to the Christian People's Party. I believe that it is reasonable for the representative Marthinsen to insinuate that SV as well is inconclusive in relation to child pornography. I think he knows that SV was the driver of drawing child pornography out of the usual pornographic determination, precisely by saying that this is sexual assault on children and evidence of this, not ordinary pornography. In addition, we are in EN the only people who say that we should allocate NOK 600 000 to strengthen the work of Redd Barna in the fight against child pornography. If this is not important to Mr Marthinsen's representative, I do not know. I have tried to explain to the representative Kukestad that this is actually not about a real disagreement, but about the process, about being sure of what we are doing, and not about us thinking that it is wrong to raise the penalties to three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e493	I find it strange that the representative of Thorkildsen throughout his speech on organized crime talked about the criminal code, that the government has failed in post-war protection, and about what we can do for victims of sexual assault, without taking care of victims of other serious crimes. I thought that today we were going to have a debate about organized crime, and about what we could do to combat it. That is why I am disappointed that the Socialist Left Party in the debate does not address what we should do in relation to the criminal framework and to the serious organised crime, in particular the reoccurrence crime. I'm disappointed that you can't have two thoughts in your head at the same time, but just focus on long queues, and that because of them you can't go in to raise the penalties. I don't understand the logic of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e501	First a little clarification: I think I got hurt to say § 167c. That was § 162c. I believe that the representative, Mr Hofstad, may have to read through the minutes of the debate. I used about half of my post to talk about organized crime, and the other half to talk about repeat crime and trafficking in people. It's clear that when the government promotes a proposition with ten different proposals, which concerns different areas of Norwegian law, I can't spend my entire speaking time just talking about organized crime, when it's a small part of it. We have agreed to have our own criminal order for organised crime, in line with what the Government initially proposed, but which the representative of Hofstad has been involved in changing. We have also accepted that it is very important to give, among other things. increased opportunities for police to detect this crime by means of exceptional investigation methods. But we have concerns about the introduction of a general law enforcement system. Both the Riksadvokatten, Oslo State Attorney's Office and Hordaland State Attorney's Office – with many more – have it, so we are not alone on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e512	Thorkildsen pointed out that she had little time at the time of delivery, and that is basically a perfectly good argument. But now it's been a while. Now SV has had the opportunity to assess and decide. It is also possible to vote in favour of the increase in the penalty framework for the exchange of child pornography without having to vote in favour of the three-year limit in order to have this as organised crime. Why does SV not choose this option? And deadlines or one: why does Thorkildsen insist on being the paedophile's best friend and protector?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e517	The last thing I don't even want to comment on. On the first point, I understood that the government parties, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party wanted to include pedophile networks in Section 162(c), which thus provides a definition of when something is organized crime. That was, as I understood it, the background to the desire to raise the penalty framework for the exchange of child pornography material to three years from two years old, and at the same time to lower the penalty framework requirement in § 162c from four years to three years old. What we have done, in fact in consultation with the National Lawyer, is to explicitly link child pornography to Section 162(c) in order to ensure that you have the opportunity to use the investigation methods that you want to use. Because that's what we think is the purpose here, that's to reveal child pornography. And then we're on the team, we!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e526	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e529	Trafficking in women and children is the slavery of our time and involves gross violations of human rights. A clear ban on this is part of the penal code. It is therefore very gratifying that the Government is now proposing a ban on trafficking in human beings. Human traffickers are leading thousands of women and children to Western Europe every year. Many of these are exploited in prostitution and illegal work. Those who are led to Norway by human traffickers come from poor countries. The majority come from or via the Balkan countries, from the Soviet Union or from the rest of Eastern Europe. They often pay everything they own to get a better future in the West. But often the journey ends in gross exploitation and degradation. Many of those exploited by traffickers are minors. In addition to being victims of criminal activity, they are deprived of care, family life, education and other fundamental rights that all children need and require. Trafficking in human beings is a serious form of profit-based and organised crime, threatening the most fundamental principles of human value. Trafficking in women and children must be combated in many different ways. In February this year, the Government presented an action plan with 23 different measures to stop this. Prohibiting trafficking in human beings in criminal law is one of the measures outlined in the plan. International cooperation is a prerequisite for stopping trafficking in human beings. If work is to succeed, it is important that most countries have equivalent prohibition provisions in this area. It is therefore very positive that many countries have legal rules that meet the requirements of the UN Protocol on trafficking in human beings. Furthermore, a ban on trafficking in human beings will help our legislation to become clearer than it is today, and that is precisely what is important for preventive and enforcement reasons. Both the typical behind-the-scenes actions and the actions of those responsible for the actual exploitation of the persons smuggled will be affected by the new provision of Section 224 of the Penal Code. Both seduction and exploitation in human trafficking are so punishable that it should be covered by that provision. In this context, the scope of the so-called halic paragraph is reduced somewhat. In this respect, it is very important for me to clarify that this does not imply a reduction in the level of criminal offences. The Christian People's Party believes that it is necessary to change the Halik paragraph at the same time as we adopt a new provision on trafficking in human beings. The reason for this is that we don't want an extensive overlap between criminal provisions. We fear that such an overlap could result in actions that should be judged by the stricter ban on human trafficking being assessed by the prosecution authority and/or by the courts according to the Halik paragraph of Section 202. This can happen because a breach of Section 202 is more easily proven than a breach of Section 224. Such development is not desirable. It is a fact that many abusers of violence, gain and morality are repeaters. They lack respect for the integrity, health or property of others. In many cases, people who are subjected to criminal acts and abuses get their lives ruined. Psychological adverse effects are the rule, not the exception. This is very serious and demands that we as legislators do everything we can to reduce repeated crime. Those who struggle with the aftermath of criminal acts must be taken seriously! Punishment has an individual preventive function. Increasing the penalties for repeated criminals could therefore contribute to fewer offences and fewer injuries to life, health and property. In my opinion, the individual-preventive effect will be particularly evident if, as recommended in the proposition, the criminal aggravation takes place in the form of a significant conditional prison sentence, which is in addition to the unconditional part of the sentence. However, the Christian People's Party is aware that reoccurrence in criminality can adversely affect drug users who finance their consumption of crime. But it is important to hold on to the fact that the criminal offences of a drug addict are no less punishable than if the same act was committed by a drug-free person. I also fully recognise that the individual preventive effect that we want to achieve through the tightening of penalties for repeat crime, is less effective against drug addicts. Therefore, I would like to stress that targeted action against this group for the purpose of drug-free treatment is important in order to prevent recurrence. Criminal drug users need treatment for their dependence. In this context, the government in the last state budget marked an increase in the use of housing in treatment institutions. It is difficult to accurately identify the extent of organised crime in Norway. However, it is reported by the police that developments in this area are worrying. It is a signal that must have a bearing on justice policy. Organised crime poses a greater threat to society and individuals than to other crime. Often, there is no traditional insult that detects and reports crime that originates from criminal networks. Few dares, for example. reporting drug traffickers or spirits. There is fear of the consequences of silence. Therefore, offences are easily concealed in criminal networks. This presents a completely different challenge to the police than the more traditional crime. If we are to be able to combat organised crime, we need a wide range of instruments. These include: the need for a criminal threat to the criminal network as such, as proposed by the Government in the proposal. This will allow police to work pro-actively in these environments through screening, infiltration and the use of non-traditional investigation methods. The proposal for a new federal provision in Section 162(c) of the Criminal Code is linked to a criminal offence which a person must commit or contribute to commit. Such a link, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, is absolutely central to the assessment of which acts are to be penalised. We believe it is very positive that the Government is proposing changes to the penal code in line with the UN Convention against Transboundary Organised Crime. Organized criminals often operate in the international arena, and for this reason similar criminal provisions are important as in other countries. If Norway punishes organised criminals more easily than other European countries, this could lead to criminal environments finding it appropriate to exercise their impropriety here. Such a development would be very undesirable. The proposed penance for criminal acts carried out as part of the activities of an organised criminal group is, in the view of the Christian People's Party, necessary. Today’s penalties are to some extent too low to cover the maximum criminality of organised crime. There is a danger that Norway will attract this type of debilitating activity if our criminal law enforcement practices are not least in line with other European countries. This is clarified in the position of the Judicial Committee in the case and should be understood as a clear signal to the courts as to the location of the level of penalties for organised crime. There is a greatest need to raise the penalties for organised crime when the offence is initially punishable by a low level of penalties. The reason for this is that there is otherwise a sufficient opportunity to take account of the criminal atrocities that organised crime is within the general criminal framework. This is the background for the Christian People's Party supporting the establishment of an absolute ceiling of five years of additional punishment in Section 60a of the Penal Code. We also believe that there is a need to reduce the proposed penalty law entry point in Section 60(a) from four to three years in prison. It is important that the provision, for example: arrest organised criminal groups whose primary purpose is to commit winning crimes with a three-year sentence. I Ot. pp. No 62 more instruments are proposed to deal with serious crime such as: organised crime, perhaps the most brutal form of crime in human trafficking, which is the slavery of our time to repeat crime, which causes many victims to harm their lives; Therefore, robust measures are necessary. However, these measures need to be combined with increased efforts in the field of criminal law, so that housing really provides a rehabilitating effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e596	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e599	The representative of Holstad spoke about the importance of combating organised crime. At the same time, he believed that, in relation to the more serious organised crime, it was already in place today within the criminal framework. Does this mean that the representative of Holstad is satisfied with the emphasis on the element of organised crime that the courts are already doing, that there is no need for external criminal aggravation in this context, and that in Norway it is really the small-criminal organised gangs that need to be taken, and not those who commit serious crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e606	On the Kvakstad challenge, I cannot say I am satisfied until the prisons are empty, in the sense that a goal for all of us must be to get as little criminal activity as possible, and that as few as possible the criminal racetrack begins. I don't think you're in Ot. pp. No 62 neither petty-criminals nor the more serious criminals as a separate group are respected, but the principles are dealt with in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e613	I listen with silence when I hear the representative of the government parties say that there is a need for increased efforts in criminal matters. I agree with the heart, and I hope that it will be made visible, as it has not happened so far, and that it will come to the harvest. But I want to challenge the Christian People's Party in relation to the issue of rehabilitation, which we all agree on, regardless of how we put ourselves into criminal squeezing for repeaters. Some of us believe that there are enough criminal cases to deal with. I would like to ask the representative, Holstad, to what extent does the Christian People's Party see the possibility that increased resources in the criminal justice system can contribute to, for example. more § 12-soning? What kind of grip does the Christian People's Party see that you have to take to increase the volume of those who zone according to Section 12?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e620	As the representative of Greece has said, it has never been as much spent on criminal justice as it is today, measured in dollars in relation to previous years' appropriations. In my opinion, it is also a start to a process and a development in the right direction. I'm asking for understanding that things take time, and that we can't bet on everything at the same time, but at least it's government parties' will to give an increased stake in this particular area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e627	I want to ask the representative Einar Holstad if he shares my opinion, that getting a quick response is one of the most important things we can do as a justice politician to prevent anyone from coming out on a criminal track and preventing you from continuing to be a criminal once you have made a sentence. I wonder if the representative Holstad agrees with me that there is trouble when approx. 2 700 people are now in line and the government is at the same time on a line to double the penalties for repeat crime, and where the penalties have also been doubled in cases of competition. This can mean nothing more than that we get even longer cows? How much money is the representative Holstad willing to spit into the criminal justice system to make sure that that doesn't happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e635	I allow myself to be a little personal. After having been in conversation with someone as the son of killing his father, I get an improper idea that this should never have happened. The best form of prevention is to prevent anyone from getting involved at all on a criminal track. It's probably a question of putting resources in several areas here, after a criminal act and after a criminal racetrack has started, but above all, I think the best crowns are invested in what's being prevented before anything happens. We need to look at the growing-up conditions of children and young people – where I think the bet gives the best results.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e642	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e645	The emergence of organised crime confronts society with specific challenges. Organised crime is generally a major threat to society and individuals than to other crime. At the same time, it may be more difficult to combat. The investigation is further distorted by the frequent cross-border behaviour of organised criminal groups. International police cooperation is therefore very important in these cases. Against this background, I am pleased that a single justice authority essentially concludes on the Government's proposal for new criminal provisions on organised crime. This will improve the quality of the Norwegian criminal justice system in the fight against organised crime and enable Norwegian police and prosecution authorities to cooperate with their counterparts in other countries. I also attach great importance to the fact that the legislative changes will enable us to ratify the UN Convention on Organised Crime. During the work on the legislative proposal, it has been important for me to find the right balance between providing the criminal justice system with effective means of combating organised crime on the one hand and ensuring legal certainty and preventing injustice for those suspected of the other. A criminal order that encroaches on the conclusion of agreements to commit serious crimes as part of the activities of an organised criminal group will facilitate the detection of serious organised crime. An individual criminal code for organised crime will enable the courts to better judge a penalty that is proportionate to the gravity of the action. Furthermore, the level of penalties can be increased without the need for a step forward by the courts. Both in the draft new criminal order and in the new criminal code, criminal sanctions have been introduced in four years, in accordance with the UN Convention and the EU system. I record and take note that the majority of the Judicial Committee will set the point of intersection somewhat lower, so that the scope of the legislative changes is broadened somewhat in line with the Government's proposal, as presented earlier today – both to target organised crime where there is speculation that the criminal framework is too low, and also to target organised pedophile networks for the distribution of the production of sexual abuse against children. Trafficking in people is the slave trade of our time. This crime is also very cross-border. An important instrument in the fight against such serious crime is therefore international cooperation on rule development, investigation and prosecution. I am therefore very pleased that a collective Justice Department is also behind the proposal for a new penal order against trafficking in human beings. Thus, the necessary legislative changes are in place to allow the Storting to consent to the ratification of the Protocol on trafficking in human beings to the UN Convention on Transboundary Organised Crime. The Protocol is also an important reference framework for the Government’s action plan on trafficking in women and children, which was presented in February this year. It is equally important, of course, that the offender will provide police and prosecution authorities with a better tool to investigate and prosecute human trafficking nationally. Although such crime could in the past also be prosecuted under provisions such as: In this context, it is important to note that the European Union has a strong role to play in the fight against racism and xenophobia. With regard to the relationship between the penal law § 202 on infernal activities and the draft of § 224 on trafficking in human beings, I now emphasise – as in the proposition – that it has not been intended to decriminalise acts that have so far been affected by § 202. The change shall only affect the criminal penalties imposed on the perpetrators of the prostitution activities. Where coercive measures have been used to seduce or exploit anyone in prostitution, § 224 shall be applied. On the other hand, the person promoting the voluntary prostitution of others is affected by Section 202. Recently, in some areas, the courts have stepped up the punishment against repeat crime. However, in the view of the Government, the punishment for such crime should be further intensified. In particular, this applies to those who continue to commit gainful, violent and sexual crimes – to the great harm and disadvantage of others. This group must be able to react strictly to society. Both individual and general prevention considerations speak strongly for it. As stated above, the Court of Justice has stated that, by means of case-law, criminal penalties should be progressively tightened up. By way of amendment of the law, however, the courts will be able to determine the penalty they seek without taking steps. I would like to stress that the legislative proposal does not mean that the penalty should be increased in all cases. It will be up to the courts — and above all the Supreme Court — to find the right level of punishment, in the light of the signals given in the preparatory work of the law. In any case, the penalty must be fair and fair. And then I, like many others, can, in reflection, think about the following position, and it's -- to go back to a reference framework we had earlier today -- that the exposure to amstaff in the broad public is stronger than the exposure to this world's Liljas. It must be so, because what is visible to us is easier to grasp, while what is invisible is difficult to relate to. And it has to be that a state of law is not a state of law if you can't with legal means go into the closed backrooms and get hold of those who run their business and are running around with people. However, the procedure must be the one presented in the proposal to which the Committee subscribes, namely that legislative regulation, procedural regulation and proper back-testing can be carried out. It's the way the state of law also moves towards those who run organized crime. Similarly, the special part of the crime that is about trafficking in human beings is, of course, the crime that perhaps in many ways species become cynical. As it appears in the proposition and in the majority remarks in the vote, it is also linked to violations of human rights, sexual abuse, violations of equality and gross exploitation of poor people's living conditions. All of this is part of the backbone of the Government's action plan against trafficking and the modern-day slave trade. So there's become considerable attention in terms of rebound crime. The simple answer to why the proposal was put forward is that the proposal is included in the Sem Declaration as one of several actions to be promoted. In addition, it is included as part of a practical political agreement concluded in the Stortinget between the government parties and the Progress Party. Once such an agreement has been concluded, the Government must promote what it itself considers to be appropriate in response to such a challenge, so that there is a concrete and direct justification for the replication. It relates to this provision a view of continuing to think of the individual, and it's the courts that have a sense of it. In that case, it is clear that there are three positions in the Judicial Committee. That is the position occupied by the Workers' Party and SV, that is the position of the government parties, and that is the position of the Advance Party. There are different reasoning behind these positions. However, according to its reasoning, the Progress Party has come to the conclusion that they can vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the Government's proposals. It's not even hidden that these are different ways of thinking, but you choose together to be able to vote subsidiaryly. And then it's also said that you can't do this, because at the same time you have to think about everything else. If any debate in the Grand Duchy were to always be about everything else you should have thought of over the proposals that have been put forward, no proposals would ever be put forward. We'd go in an eternal dance, because when we discussed criminal custody, someone with great glow could say, "No, we can't discuss that, because we have to talk about punishment tightening." And when we talk about penance, someone says, "We can't discuss that because we should discuss something else." The answer must be the famous sentence that has gradually become a repetition in the rock column of Norwegian newspapers. It sounds like this: it's allowed to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. That's exactly what's the point here. It is quite possible to think that individual preventive action should be taken against those who commit criminal acts, while at the same time making a practical effort to ensure that the content of compensation is different. And if you now look at the budget for the current year, you have taken steps to do better, with different actions both in terms of the per million programme, in terms of programmes related to those who do not master minds, and in terms of Section 12 zoning. Steps have also been taken to enter into the administrative cooperation that is vital, especially for young people, before they end up in criminal activity. It is often covered by local SLT cooperation schemes — in some cases it is also addressed in situations where it is intended to catch young people just when they come out of prison, so that they do not become repeaters. The same happens when, for example: the ‘Life after Reconciliation’ organisation is working to ensure that administrative cooperation which is fully possible under Norwegian law, between Aetat, social services, the various public authorities and criminal services, is organised in order to ensure that a person has a chance. In a number of situations, this happens, and it's in those situations that humans have a chance. When this administrative cooperation doesn't happen, you lose your chance. And you actually don't depend on constant debates about how much money you have to do the right actions. The right actions are governed by the mentality of your head, the experience you have, and what you have to do to cross bureaucratic barriers. I will dare to say that it is through the tough work of politics, which cannot always be referred to in this Chamber, for example. by stimulating and cheering the people involved in such administrative cooperation to obtain practical results. I'm working that way, I'm going to keep working that way, and I'm also going to work out of the worn-out cliché that's part of all the rock slits, at least in our country's newspaper, that you should always have two thoughts in your head at the same time. It is a good delivery gel, and it is definitely absolutely necessary when it is the criminal justice plaza that is the main theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e681	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e684	There's no doubt that several of us agree that there's a lot of thinking in our head at once, especially when we're discussing criminal policy. But what's the problem is that when we face bets in one field against bets in another field, we can't afford to bet fully in the areas where you want to bets. The queues we have today against Norwegian prisons are a very good example of how expensive it is to have many thoughts in your head at once. And sometimes it can be so expensive that there'll be little effect out of it all. I have to say, after this debate, that I think that the Minister of Justice should respond more to what is the Ministry's initiative to increase the number of §12 zoning, i.e. rehabilitation, and what the situation really is. Is it the case that the decline has continued over the last two years, so that we are recruiting fewer to Section 12 zoning? And in this way: what will the government do to get more into Section 12 zoning, just to prevent repeat crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e689	As part of the answer to the question from Knut Storberget's representative, I would like to say that I have visited schools in Oslo where the aim is to capture young people who could be at risk of becoming addicted to alcohol or drugs very early. It happens in urban areas with different economic bases. But what happens, and happens everywhere, is that parents, students, child protection and police operate together in such a way that those who would otherwise have no chance, get a chance. These everyday heroes are rarely hailed, they are rarely put into a statistics, but there are quite a few of them. In the case of § 12 zoning, it is such that additional funds were included in the budget of the year. I will explain the impact of this in connection with the budget for next year, and I am, of course, also concerned with following it up. Another important measure to do more about this is the plan of action such as: exist for Oslo, which has been concluded in cooperation between, inter alia: The Ministry of Justice, the Oslo Police District and the Oslo Municipality — active measures to give drug users a different and better life than to end up behind prison walls.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e696	An action against recurrent crime, which has also been proposed by the Government, is an additional conditional penalty that should act as an individual preventive. Hopefully it has a good and positive effect. My question is: When does the Council of State see that it can have the greatest effect, and when should it therefore be inserted? Is it early in judgment, or is it after a person has done multiple acts over several years, and perhaps after four–five convictions, i.e. when one has defined him as a repeater, more often than not? It is well that if this is inserted too late, it is more a matter of renovation than of prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e703	The representative raises a question of principle of legal policy, and it is linked to the prerequisites for the application of a tightened sentence or a repeat sentence. There's multiple relationships that lie at the root of this. One of the conditions is for example: this shall not apply to persons under 18 years of age. That's a position I'm very strongly on, and I think I'm going to keep very clear on it too. However, there are other issues, such as:: When should you do it – after atonement or at another time? There are questions that I am willing to be open to when working with the new penal code. When it's not included in the proposition, it's simply because it wasn't sent out to the hearing. I want to present matters to the Stortinget, who has been sent out at the hearing, but the 18-year limit I stand quite firm and hard on. The legal boundary I want to mark here today, because I think sending young people in early is sending them into a criminal school. On the other hand, in general, in response to the question, of course, it is important to react early in a criminal career rather than later in the criminal career.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e710	I have two questions for the Council of State. The one issue concerns the Penal Court. I wonder if this is the case that the Department has already decided not to take note of the systematics and attitude of the Penitentiary Commission, or whether it is simply now going on a formidable double job, since we are constantly trying to outwit our new penal code. That's the one question. The second question is whether the Council of State thinks it is problematic that he gets as much mouth as he gets, among other things. by the Advocate General of the State of Oslo, by the State of Lasse Qvigstad and by others who are concerned with the principles of legal certainty. Does the Council of State find it problematic to be characterized as so powerful that wisdom almost disappears?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e719	Let me make a selection. As a government council, I accept both criticism and bullshit. On the other hand, I want to be a bone-hard defender of the quality of the law department that exists in the Ministry of Justice. To indicate publicly that that department is straightforward, or that it does not do a thorough job when it is working on something, I will at least strongly distance myself from it. I don't see it as if that was what Mr. Inga Marte Thorkildsen did, but others who have expressed themselves publicly can be perceived as such. I want to make it clear that this is not the case. I have noticed that the First State Attorney in Oslo was critical of the need for a provision on trafficking in human beings. I said the following in a comment to it: Could it be that he had not taken into account that having a provision is actually essential to join a convention that we are obliged to follow up? But I have been to open hearings, and in open hearings I have to endure that there will be both roses and rice. It's part of democracy that it works that way. So at the end of the day, as far as the Criminal Felony Commission is concerned, I have thought that this matter should be submitted to the Grand Duchy without me submitting any further proposals before that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e728	Assuming that I understood the Minister of Justice correctly, he said in his speech that the sentence should appear as ‘reasonable’. That's what I think is an interesting angle, because then immediately the question is raised: "Really relative to who?" Should the penalty be reasonable in relation to an offender, or should it be reasonable from the point of view of a defence lawyer? Should it be reasonable from the point of view of the Court of Auditors, or could it be such that the Minister of Justice believes that the penalty should be reasonable in relation to the position of the victim? That's why I want the Minister of Justice to be able to make this clear a little bit, referring to what he said instead: who is he thinking about when he says that the punishment should appear reasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e736	As far as I remember, I said "reasonable and fair". The word ‘reasonable’ is proportionate to what the criminal proceedings are about, namely that, in the context of the law in force, the court weighs up what is going on in the case — the accomplice’s record, the defendant’s statements — and then the court makes an opinion. When I agree to make proposals, for example: on the strengthening of criminal sanctions in relation to repeat crime, it is in order to give signals that the Court should take this into account. I marked it in that way that this is the basis for this rather than waiting for the Supreme Court rulings in individual cases. Then there's a legal marking that's been made. But the reasonableness lies in a trial, and I was very clear in my contribution that I do not intend to instruct the judge. I trust that judges are able to exercise good judgment. Then legislators get to make sure that the law is the best possible, through their preparatory work. Of course, it's in relation to this that the considerations stand. Then there are all the parties to a trial for which the Court of Justice has an opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e743	I don't think we have a clean law department in our own Ministry of Justice, but I think that cooperation makes sense, for example. by making a number of wise heads together to draft proposals for new laws. When, for example: In the case of the dog law, one man put it and worked out that proposal, and it also had an impact on the proposal. When it comes to this, I also have the feeling that the turns have gone a little fast. So I'm standing here with a five-page slaughter from Oslo State Attorney's Office, which concerns exactly the proposals we are now dealing with. In addition, as far as I can recall, the Ministry in its letter of consultation did not propose that the competition and re-establishment should be taken into account in doubling the criminal framework, which was initially the proposal, in the case of organised crime. It was not suggested a five-year thank-you, and it was not problematic that one actually gave a whole bunch of criminals automatic rights to treatment by law. This, I believe, gives cause for concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e750	It is clear from the legislative proposal that there has been a consultation, it shows who has been critical at the hearing and who has had the opposite position. It also shows how the department has assessed it. That's how the law process has to be. I choose, for example: to bring forward the CATCH police unit, which has been very committed to tackling organised crime, I choose to listen to police investigators, who are actually among those who are starting to get results in the fight against a social sin as organised crime, and who at the same time understand and know that this social sin must be combated on the ground of the rule of law. Now the representative of Thorkildsen has also used the dog law as an example. On that occasion, it was worked quite thoroughly in the department. I know that, because I was also inside it myself. But this was a matter where there wasn't a single question from the Justice Committee, and where the committee found out that it would work on its own. It is the right and duty of the sovereigns of the Committee. Finally, in order for there to be no doubt about it: I intend to come back with a principle case about the Penal Court next year, and I have no intention of promoting other general proposals before that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e759	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e762	The government’s proposal is intended to target organised criminal groups who commit ‘serious crime’. I am sceptical that there is not enough evidence from case-law to suggest increased penalties. It is difficult to predict whether increased penalties will have real meaning. Increased penalties will impose greater burdens on courts, prosecutors and prison cows. A system that is already under severe pressure must be carefully burdened to a greater extent than it is today — something that the Council of State itself was involved in in previous speeches today. This is a responsibility we must take seriously as politicians. Facilitating the prosecution of all those involved in organised trafficking in human beings is necessary. The most widespread trafficking in human beings is mainly foreign prostitutes who are more or less involuntarily lured from their homeland by organized gangs, in order to run prostitution in well-paying markets in Western European countries. The Labour Party considers the tightening up of legislation to be appropriate, but points out the importance of it as part of a comprehensive action plan with more instruments than punishment to combat trafficking in women and children. Although it is difficult to state exactly the extent of organised crime in Norway, we know that developments in this area are worrying and that it is an increasing threat to society and individuals. Not least, it poses greater challenges to the police than other crimes. The Labour Party shares the view that the fight against such crime therefore requires a wider range of instruments, and we therefore join in the proposals that will provide the police with extended opportunities to combat it. We will also highlight the importance of Norwegian legislation being consistent with other European countries in this area. The fact that Norway can end up as a paradise for organised criminal gangs because of lower penalties is something that politicians cannot risk. In the debate on instruments to combat, inter alia: organised crime, trafficking in human beings and reoccurrence crime many call for stricter penalties and stricter legislation as an instrument. 1st@item: inlistbox One must keep his tongue straight in his mouth. Stricter penalties may be an instrument of retaliation. However, addressing the root of the problems, focusing on prevention, often comes in a different series of such debates. More severe punishment is too simple, and we will in no way overcome crime without addressing its causes. Today, we have a high percentage of repeats in Norwegian crime. Strengthened penalties are not only an appropriate measure in this fight. Causes such as intoxication, social differences, unemployment, etc. In the view of the Labour Party, the development of the crime scene has more to say than the lack of a high level of penalties. The working party is in doubt of an extension of the repeat penalty. In general, those with drug problems are in most cases perpetrators of repeated crimes. It is often a matter of less winning crimes in order to obtain money for, for example, drug consumption. For this group of people, there is no penal framework that will prevent and deter. Criminal offenders with drug problems especially need follow-up during acquittal. We believe that convicted people with drug problems should not be punished with longer and harsher punishments, but be dealt with with with more constructive methods. The Labour Party wishes to introduce the provision of institutional treatment as an alternative penalty. This and similar measures are more appropriate than longer penalties in the traditional form of reconciliation. We would ask that caution be exercised with regard to the proposed criminal code for repeaters with drug problems. In terms of punishment and repeat crime, it is essential that aftercare and rehabilitation are strong enough to prevent convictions from committing new crimes. The fight against repeat crime depends on strong criminal care. As long as criminal justice is in crisis, as it is now, stricter penalties will lead primarily to longer settlement cows and less quality in the settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e795	The CATCH investigation team, which is the police specialty against organised criminals, showed its results a few days ago in the VG last year. There are 110 people seized, 150 kg of drugs and 30 000 litres of alcohol seized, and 17 million worth of alcohol seized. kr has been withdrawn. The police work has effectively stopped several organised groups. It is worth noting that the police themselves believe that the use of communication interception, such as telephone interception and screening, has been among the most important working methods of CATCH. This gives signals to the outside world, and not least to politicians, that the penalties we are carrying out here today are helping to expand police investigation methods and, of course, the possibility of detecting organised crime. The web around organized criminals begins to entangle themselves. Not only effective police methods, but also effective instruments against economic crime are necessary against organised criminals. Therefore, police tracing of economic transactions has also been important. So far, it has taken microseconds to transfer large sums from one account to another account around the world, from tax havens in the Caribbean to the English Channel, etc., legally or illegally. But when it comes to illegalities, it might take years to detect this flow of transactions. Thanks to nine-time investigation and special expertise at various police stations, you'll be able to figure out this type of crime. Internationally, Norway, like other nations that want to combat this type of crime, is dependent on motivated governments in just those countries that allow tax havens and nations where it is easy to avoid money. I would therefore say that the effect of 11 September 2001, the new terrorist laws, has in fact had an impact on so-called money laundering legislation internationally. Only a few days ago, the majority of the Grand Duchy, the government parties and the Workers' Party adopted new measures in the fight against money laundering. Transactions and transfers over certain amounts may be required to be legitimised. The transparency and detection of the police has been radically improved by the new Whitewashing Act. The sum of new, effective police methods, the anti-money laundering law and now reinforced criminal sanctions against organised criminals mean that the Norwegian society has never been better equipped to fight organised criminals before. The Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party combine penalties for organised criminals with community action against poverty, child protection, unemployment, many school losers, poor care, etc. Where was this concern and the touching concern to the sufferers when the Workers' Party itself put into government, and SV agreed to vote for the same proposals? The most prominent feature of organised criminals is that in many cases there are foreign gangs, Nordics living abroad, or, for that matter, the Norwegian MC environment, which is behind much of this crime. It can't hurt to increase the penalties, can it? I mean, it's gonna hit the perpetrators alone. The higher the penalties for organised criminals, the less attractive it is to operate in Norway. So my question is: does SV have a goal that Norway should be a free area for organised crime? Why does SV not want to adapt to the level of penalties imposed by the rest of the world or the countries bordering on Norway? Let me give you an example in relation to pedophile networks, which is a form of organized crime that is perhaps one of the bestial and unworthy things that exist and that takes place over the Internet. This is a type of moral crime that is a threat to child-mind and to children and young people. SV has shown in many other things that they have a touching concern for this type of thing. In fact, instead of procedural explanations, SV here today should be in favour of proposals to punish pedophile networks, which enable us to have far better investigation methods against this type of activity than it has been so far. I just want to end by saying that the measures we are adopting here today apply, of course, to Norway, but the fight against organized criminals depends on the outside world being involved and adopting the same measures and the same laws, and we also depend on the same countries being involved in ensuring that these laws are complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e810	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e813	It was time we got a case with a little stitching in, with a little policy and a little ‘driving’ in. We've got that now. There has been a relatively quiet drive-up, but now there has become a little more roof here, and that is good. Politics is sometimes about finding common solutions, but sometimes it is also good that there are clear dividing lines. That's it in this case. It's a paradox to me, but it seems for a while as if the Workers' Party and SV believe that if you only strengthen the municipal economy enough, it won't be crime. It is possible that I am going too far, but my opinion lies hard in that ladder. I perceive the signals from the speakers that if we had strengthened the local economy, this would not have happened. I'm sorry! I think it's a simplification of the facts, which at least I won't accept, and which I will thus reject. I think that this is the way we actually need to strengthen the sectors covered by the justice sector, among other things. Police. Ask them what they think about their access to resources, ask the police, and ask the courts. Everyone probably wants more resources, including: to do a satisfactory job in relation to Storting's ambitions, i.e. ours. Furthermore, this is about punishment. There's talk of concern for the repeater criminals, and I'm just as fascinated every time, because there's something part, especially the left side, about, that's the position of the poor criminals. But I've said it before, and I'd like to say it again, that if you were equally concerned about the victims, we wouldn't have had this problem. Norway needs a political turnaround in criminal justice. We've been focusing on the criminals of poor people from 1973 until today, after my judgement. Enough is enough. Now we have to move the focus. If we had been equally concerned about the others and took the signals from the others in the same way, things had been done differently in this room. Some of us attended an event in the Stine Sofie Foundation a little over a week ago, and it is clear that some of the fates represented by the foundation feel that they are not being taken care of. They are not taken into account by us who are sitting in this room, because we are so worried about the poor criminals, who have had it so bad. The fact that people have grown up with a trap is not an alibi for them to carry on the deeds of others, on the contrary. Then I can't help but point out the post to the representative of Storberget, who says something about the future effort of the Workers' Party. I look forward with interest to the Workers' Party's proposal for a revised national budget, because at least there I expect a significant commitment and a significant investment in the municipal sector. If not, the representative of Storberget is not a believer again.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e828	It is said that attack is the best defense, and that is probably why the representative Thorkildsen attacked me with insinuation about the lie. According to Thorkildsen, this was not to be compatible with being a Christian. I share the perception of the relationship between Christian faith and lying. As evidence of his claim, the representative referred to other matters that show that SV wants to be the child’s defender. I referred to the matter we are dealing with now, and the comments that are written in this setting. It is a fact that SV is the only party that is not in the majority opinion on organised, pedophile networks, and it is a fact that SV says it is very unfortunate to make such a move now, and points out that the proposed provision violates the systematic Criminal Law Commission. It also became clear in the question asked by the representative of Thorkildsen to the Council of State. So what I'm referring to now is in the setting on page 6, the left column, the last paragraph, and on page 7, the left column, the last paragraph. I therefore expect that the representative of Thorkildsen's insinuation that I am lying is rejected. But I understand SV's despair at this point, in this case, to be objected to by the decision that the Red Children give commendation. However, it is not too late to join. The vote has not taken place yet. If I did not misunderstand one of the answers given by Thorkildsen in reply, it was absolutely not impossible that she and SV actually agreed with the content of the comment. Then we'll see if action follows understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e837	Since I obviously cannot trust that the representative Marthinsen or others here are really willing to look into what SV has meant in this matter, I am pleased with the representative Marthinsen that we are going to support the proposal to increase the penalties from two years to three years. But that's simply because we think it's right, and not because we think we should be able to double the penalties by using Section 60a, to which we are skeptical. To take the representative Dybevig seriously, he says that SV does not want to punish organised crime strictly. In fact, the representative Deepvig is wrong. What we have said is that we want there to be stricter penalties for committing organised crime, but there should not be a general criminal code, and that should not be done in such a way that the penalties for less serious crimes are unfairly known, while the more serious crimes in practice remain on-the-spot in terms of penalties. We think that's a crazy way to do it. We also say that we do not disagree with raising the penalties framework, but that we want to assess this in connection with the treatment of the criminal prosecution commission's position, simply because we want to see the entire criminal law in the context. I think that's a perfectly reasonable position to take. In relation to the claim that SV is not concerned with the victims, etc., I would say that we actually have to look at the care of the victim in relation to what kind of criminal justice we have, and what kind of criminal care we have. For me, it is essential that a human being who has been sitting and sonic come out again on the other hand as a better human being. One of the worst examples I've heard of was when I was visiting the Institute of Clinical Sexology and Therapy, at Thore Langfeldt, where I was told about an inmate who had been sitting on Ullersmo, who was in solitary confinement, which this member disagrees completely with the law – and wrote lists of people he wanted to kill, just because he was even more destroyed by sitting that way, and because he was filled with hate and revenge. If you're busy with the victims, as the representative Ellingen says he's busy, you should change that. Then you shouldn't let people sit completely isolated for a long time on a cell and then drop them directly into society afterwards, because it's dangerous for other people, and I don't want us to get new victims. I want us to prevent new victims, and then we have to look at how we can get to a human criminal justice system that makes it possible to change people.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e847	I'm not going to help extend this debate a lot, but I just want to underline what the representative of Thorkildsen has just said. The reason for our scepticism for some of the proposals that have been made has been to cumulate on less serious crimes, but to sort of stand on the ground rests on some of the serious crimes, and it must be a cross of thought. It must also be a cross of thought, I think, for those who believe that increased punishment is the most effective in any context, to look at countries that practice such schemes with very long penalties, whether there is actually greater law enforcement and greater security for the victims in these countries. There's nothing to suggest it. Earlier today, the Stortinget has dealt with a proposal from the UK that is about getting a roof over the head of people coming from drug institutions and prisons. I think most things to understand that if you don't have a place to live, it's a little hard to get your life straight. It's just like this. If we want it to be less criminal, we need criminal justice that is fair and also reflects the situation of the victims, of course. But there has to be a criminal service that makes sure you get back out at the other end best possible to cope with a normal life, and then we have to have some arrangements in place that make us know that it's not going wrong. Because as it is now, we know it goes wrong. People who come out of drug treatment go wrong, and people who come out of prison go wrong. At least we haven't done enough on the part of society considering that it's not going well. Then it's not just that people haven't been given long enough punishment, but that they haven't been given criminal care that works, and that they haven't had the opportunity to start a new life on the right side.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e854	When I hear the representative Ellingsen drawing up his last desperate attempt to create a debate on this proposal and going into the verbal part of this which is going to be about to name the criminals as ‘stack criminals’, which no one has done in this debate before he himself used the term, I understand that the Progress Party is losing the grip of being the ‘principle’ of fighting crime in Norway. I think people have also begun to understand that. For this trace of ever calling for more police and more punishment, especially to the youngest offenders, I think people out now understand not very useful. It is striking that people are accused of saying ‘poor criminals’ every time they propose measures that will actually help reduce the recurrence risk. That was what the Progress Party was motivated from when, in the previous case, they supported the majority in relation to using the conflict council more, yes, even encouraging the Government to assess the mandatory use of the conflict council, with the support of the Progress Party. No one suggested that there was a sort of ‘criminal policy of the stags’. It's a policy that's going to help bring down crime and get people to the right place. It's a big misunderstanding that it's the way they insulted criminal acts go around this society, demanding more and more punishment, and not sacrificing the prevention and the question of reducing the risk of relapse. All those who have been subjected to serious crime, at least as I have met, have been very concerned that this must be prevented, so it should not happen again. That should also be the aim of the Progress Party. I have to say, I think it is shocking to see the proposal of the Progress Party, which will also include 16-17-year-olds. I am pleased with the Minister of Justice's clear distance from the fact that there should be a limit. But for the Progress Party, it does not. The proposal for a new Section 61 of the Criminal Code shall apply until the age of 16 and shall be replaced by the following: ‘If the offender decides otherwise, a previously convicted person again commits a criminal offence of the same nature as he has previously been convicted, the maximum sentence was increased to 30 years’ imprisonment.’ I kept saying that we can do well here tonight to help set 30, 40, 50 and 60 years, but that's not what the fight against juvenile delinquency in Norway will be about. It will be about all the measures taken by a broad majority, and I am pleased about this: §12-soning, the issue of prevention in municipalities and the question of reducing the presence of both legal and illegal drugs. The Progress Party has not exactly known its visit time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e866	I'm glad that we have a mutual concern for each other's policies, because that probably means that there's some dynamics in terms of solutions and to work things out. That the representative of Storberget, who represents a party that has run Norway for much of the post-war period, needs to strike back, I find quite natural, because we see all the results of that criminal policy today. That the representative Storberget needs to get away from him, I understand, and all the tribute to him for the attempt. But primarily I would like to comment on the article by the representative Thorkildsen, who referred to personal and indirect personal situations, among others. to a person who has been seated on an isolate. It is clear that if a person sits on isolates, at least I expect it to be a cause. There must be a reason for him to end up there. If he's thinking that he wants to kill people in the extent that the representative referred to, and that's only because of the isolate, I'm worried, and I'm probably so worried that he's actually going to be released. In this respect, there is probably a political distinction between us and SV in this case. I have no objection to criticising the Progress Party for its criminal policy. I stand for that. But then I also think you should take inward that we actually, among other things. In the course of last year’s review, the initiative was to strengthen Life After Soning, one of the organisations contributing to the protection of people leaving prison. I'd like to take the criticism, but then I might think that we can see a little bit wider in that way. Then the representative also referred Thorkildsen to Thore Langfeldt. It's pretty interesting to hear how you use different witnesses of truth to foreshadow your own position. Of course, it's okay to do that, it should just be missing. At the same time, it's probably that a little bit depending on who you're going to, you get the answers you want in a way. Finally, as a politician, you sort the recordings you get – I assume that the representative Thorkildsen does so in relation to the recordings she gets – and then you put them up against their own political position. From there, you draw the conclusion as to what you want to go in for. At least that's how I do it when I make my judgements on behalf of the Progress Party. It is such that I have confidence in someone and less trust in others. That does not mean, of course, that I should rule out trusting one or the other, but I reserve the right to do for myself an assessment of what is reasonable in what is claimed and claimed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e877	Who has said that government parties are not concerned with preventing crime? Of course, we're concerned with preventing crime. It happens every day. We spend considerable amounts in our society on preventing crime in municipalities, through the state, through municipalities, through non-governmental organisations, etc. Let me give you an example: now, people who support non-governmental organisations have a financial discount on their self-declaration for that support. They've never gotten that before. Voluntary organisations make significant efforts towards many, including: drug users and criminals, in this society. That's the one side of the case. In the case of criminal law, SV mentions the school losers. Yes, we're trying to reform the school, because the school we've had has created these school losers as SV points out. It's just their school that created it. We want diversity into school, so that we can take into account all kinds of individuals, so that we get an individual-based education, a diversity. The committee was traveling to Vestfold, where we visited, among others. Bastard prison. I thought it was an amazingly interesting project. There's some kind of work camp, and work in the open is therapy, so that the inmates get back to society as better residents. I fully agree with Karin Andersen, who says that it is clear that you want as a neighbour a person who has had such a rehabilitation, rather than a person who has been sitting ten years behind the walls of a cell on Ullersmo. It says itself. None of us disagree with this. Then we have the cross-border crime, where there are often foreign gangs behind crime, for example. in the case of weapons. Arms are being sold to Norwegian citizens, or, for that matter, Norwegian species are threatening along the coast. We have a long-distance coast with many interesting species of birds and animals. Foreigners come here, stealing eggs, birds and different types of animals. This is also part of the organized crime that we want to live. SV, as an environmental party, should be excited that we're trying to get into these things and do something with them. We're doing that right now through this proposition and the decisions that we're going to make today. I cannot understand the SV's appeal point, that we should wait and look at this until the government has finished dealing with the criminal prosecution commission's work. We have to hit it hard now, and don't wait. This type of crime continues along our coast all the time. That's what I'll be allowed to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e890	The representative Knut Storberget has had the word twice, and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e893	To the representative of Ellingsen, he said that the outcome of the Labour Party's criminal policy was seen. Yes, we see the outcome of the Labour Party's criminal policy over the past 30 years. But that's not how Ellingen wants it to be, or how he says it is. Involvement in work, common school, active drug policies and other types of interventions other than simply putting, in particular young people, in prison has contributed to Norway’s low prevalence of juvenile delinquency, at more than 95 pst. is not recorded in the police register, that for some illicit drugs there is a decrease, that there is a lower debut rate than in other comparable countries, that we are actually well off, and that in several areas of crime there has actually been a gain in comparison with comparable countries. That is what is the result of the Labour Party's criminal policy, and as I see a good part of the Progress Party's policy, also promoted in the Chamber today, will tear down.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e898	In this debate on what helps, I think there is reason to distinguish what is called juvenile delinquency, and other crime. If you look at the first group, the reason why this continues is because a lot of people just don't want you to be taken, you don't get a reaction you understand, and you don't get the opportunity to move on with your life. That's one of the reasons we've been worried about kind of thinking about the same system of these types of crimes that you do when it comes to serious international crime, which is a big and serious problem. I'm on the municipal committee, and we've dealt with some similar issues there, there have been similar provisions relating to the Foreign Affairs Act. There, the Government has operated with completely different penalties when they consider that some acts should lead to reactions, including in the case of international crime. There is at all a whole range of issues currently under consideration, from combating terrorism to money laundering and to these proposals that are being addressed today, and those that have been on the municipal committee, dealing with related issues. I think it should be possible also for those who have a different vision than SV, to see that there may be a need to see this in context, as one should do when one has put down a large sample to look at the whole system. And it must be possible to see that youth crime is handled differently from serious international crime. I'm a little missing that you have that shade in this. So to the representatives of the government parties, who before today voted against proposals that we should make sure that people who come out of drug institutions or prisons, somewhere to live, so that they had a real opportunity to move on with their lives on the right side of the law. The fact that in this case they continue to talk about non-governmental organisations and such things is, frankly, too small. You actually have to have a roof over your head to get your life straight. You have to have a key, a door you can lock. You have to have a place to put your papers. You have to have an address if you're going to get a job. You have to have an address if you're going to be able to go to school. It is necessary to have a roof over your head to ensure that health care or anything can have any effect. It's actually something that politicians can adopt. We can't decide that people should be better people, but a very important starting point is to get them a home. We could have done that before today. I'm just recording that the majority wouldn't be in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e911	Now when you talk about prevention, you know that it takes some time for the results to be displayed. Against that background, it is interesting to note the pride the Storberget shows and brings to squares in relation to the Workers' Party's prevention in the time they have been sitting with the government, and of which we are now dealing with the results. It's probably strictly taken where we've had the growth of what now turns out to be the reconciliation queues. So someone else has to deal with the result of what the Workers' Party has created in the past. As for the quotes Storberget had in one of his posts, it might be okay if he had quoted carefully. If it is § 61 he talked about, it is such that after a comma it says “increase the maximum sentence to 30 years of imprisonment” – which means that this only applies if you, for example: is convicted the second time of murder, the third time of rape. But then Storberget obviously believes that an increase of five years is more than enough. If it were to be § 60 a he referred to, our suggestion is that once you've accumulated everything, "a total sentence of 30 years in prison". And it is also true that regardless of the criminal framework and regardless of the age of those to be judged, the Court must make an overall assessment within the overall penalty framework. Then, in particular, the question of when to start calculating, at first, second, third or rape, is of minor importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e922	No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 865]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e938	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the spokesperson for the case and 5 minutes to the groups otherwise. In addition, the President will propose that three replies be given to comments from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It'll be taken as a receipt.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e945	Corruption in the system is very socially damaging and poses a threat to the rule of law, democracy and human rights, and not least undermines social justice. Corruption per se hinders economic development in very many countries. It appears that the greater social inequalities between the inhabitants of a country, the more likely corruption is an integral part of the economy. International experience shows that in the wake of corruption, there is a growing tendency for the legal economy to decline, while in the first place, small, then large, business life adapts to the conditions of a corrupt economy. One of the main obstacles to, among other things, Argentina and other countries in South America are struggling financially, is that a large part of the total economic cake never becomes visible. ‘Survival of the fittest’ is a reality and characterises the entire public sector. Public opinion benefits from business money, while industry benefits from public licenses and contracts. The final evidence of a total corruption economy is some central African countries, where a large proportion of the country’s funds are used to cover military expenditure to ensure the security of the small power. In our neighbouring country, Russia, parts of diamond and oil production are confiscated by the mafia and are thus a base of public resources. The sale of weapons, tax fraud and undeclared work are other consequences of a corrupt economy. The distorting effect of corruption undermines a well-functioning and free market. Corruption is a direct result of a lack of legal and economic rules. The consequence is a limping and weakening of social justice. It is therefore important that corruption be effectively and actively combated both nationally and internationally. Today, Norwegian criminal law has few rules that directly address corruption. Therefore, the proposed changes to the criminal law are necessary as measures to combat corruption. Intergovernmental cooperation and anti-corruption measures are a high priority internationally. Norway follows with the proposed penalties its obligations on anti-corruption measures under Conventions concluded with the OECD, the Council of Europe and the United Nations. It is important that we have legislation at national level that clearly specifies what is punishable corruption. Norway shall be a leading country in the fight against corruption at all levels. Our legislation in this area should be norm-setting internationally. In this context, the Government has undertaken specific anti-corruption work, which is carried out in particular. through the OECD and the UN. The proposal for a general criminal code against corruption received broad support in the consultation. The majority of the hearing bodies consider that there is no reason to continue the distinction between corruption in the public and private sectors. The effect and the consequences are exactly the same. In the private sector, legal actors are undermined, while the public is suffering from a lack of opportunity for optimising resources and poor welfare provision. As a result, private-sector corruption can be just as punishable and pose a problem as corruption in the public sector. Effective criminal provisions in this area are important to maintain confidence in private business and organisations and to ensure fair competition. The legislative proposal will facilitate the production of statistics on the prevalence of corruption in Norway, which is important in terms of general information and in order to compare the development of crime with other countries. A general criminal law against corruption is included in the penal code as a new § 276a for so-called simple corruption, with a penalty framework of up to three years imprisonment or fines. This provision addresses both active and passive corruption. The proposal does not distinguish between corruption in the public and private sectors. The criminal order is an effective tool in the fight against corruption. Equality in criminality conditions and penalties for corruption is necessary. In order to ensure sound social development, a well-functioning market and equivalent conditions of competition, it is also important for the private sector to prevent corruption. Although the Council of Europe Convention allows, in some respects, restrictions on criminal penalties for corruption in the private sector, it is obvious that the proposed provision of Section 276(a) of the Criminal Act should not be limited to corruption committed only in the course of commercial activities. Corruption may, on the occasion of a position, position or assignment of a private individual or non-governmental organisation, be equally socially harmful and reprehensible and should therefore also be caught by the provision. This destroys the development of competence in society, because the best technical option is removed, whereas a product that is likely to be more expensive and of lower quality is chosen. Finally, this framework will provide the best-developed enterprises and will confuse and delay the development of competences in society. Our biggest enemy to expose corruption is now neither police investigation methods nor a sufficient penalty for corruption, but self-satisfaction with an innocent Norwegian culture that cannot possibly produce corrupt subcultures. The Finance Credit scandal revealed not only a false account but a conglomerate of false accounts. Similarly, no later than the last Thursday, an employee of Statoil was suspected of corruption for having received money in connection with the distribution of contracts. As legislators, we also have a responsibility to spread and roll the public procurement tasks to several people to prevent the temptation to corrupt. Where appropriate, internal procedures and systems should include, for example: Defence and other large public agencies are regularly independently audited and rolled on several teams, just to expose corrupt staff and to make it difficult to commit criminal offences. New Section 276(a) of the Penal Code also provides for an undue assessment. What is considered inappropriate could change in line with social development. There is no requirement for economic value to be an undue advantage. It appears that you have to pay for services abroad that you are actually entitled to. Much is needed to characterise such benefits as inappropriate. Gross corruption has been addressed in the proposal for a new § 276(b), with up to 10 years upper penalty. This can initially work rigorously, for example. because serious property offences are punishable by up to six years. Nevertheless, the proposal is supported in ten years' time, because corruption is increasingly affecting vital social interests. Moreover, gross corruption will be more punishable and more socially damaging than gross losses and theft. Since corruption will always be an activity which must take place in hiding, exceptional investigation methods are required to be allowed if serious corruption is suspected or attempted. Ecocrim states in the hearing that, in some cases, communication control will ‘be the only investigation method capable of clarifying the suspicions or ensuring the necessary evidence’. A new Section 276(c) of the Penal Code against Influence Trading is also proposed. This opens up the possibility of penalising persons who are or claim to be able to affect the performance of a position, position or assignment by others, so-called influence agents, who are trying to exploit that position by claiming or receiving undue benefits, so-called passive influence trading. A maximum penalty of up to three years imprisonment or fines for undue influence is proposed. Criminal rules on corruption include: given in order to safeguard important social interests. The appeal shall be public in cases of corruption, irrespective of whether the action is committed against the public or private sector. Imperfective trade exists where a person belonging to a decision maker’s political party, family or circle, or who, for other reasons, is or is claiming to be able to exercise influence on the decision maker, exploits his or her position by requiring, receiving or accepting an offer of an undue advantage, such as ‘any avoidance’. The spouse of a State Council, e.g. which is paid to influence the Council of State in a comprehensive concession case, may also be an example. If the influence agent receives an undue advantage in respect of his own position, if any, his own duties or duties, the grounds for possible criminal liability must be applied for in Section 276(a). Corruption issues will often be complicated and marked by extensive documentation, including: on accounting conditions. This may make corruption matters not suitable for treatment with a horizontal or a jury. Therefore, the Committee asks the Government to consider extending the second paragraph of Section 352 of the Criminal Procedures Act to cases relating to corruption and asks it to report back to the Stortinget in the context of the review of the jury system requested by the Stortinget. The Progress Party proposes to increase the penalties for violence and threats against public officials to a maximum prison period of 15 years, with a minimum prison sentence of six months. There is no reluctance to consider increasing the tightening of sanctions by government parties. We are also concerned that public officials and their families are more likely to be affected, and we are therefore taking the problem seriously. However, these changes should be considered in the context of the revision of new criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e987	Organized crime knows no borders. A typical feature of criminal practices is the rapid movement of people, drugs and money between countries. Corruption and money laundering are an important part of organised crime. Corruption undermines human rights, democracy and good governance. It undermines economic progress and hinders economic development. Corruption promotes crime, and it promotes differences. The fight against corruption is therefore primarily about the protection of our democracy. Corruption is a form of crime there is no reason to treat it mildly. Corruption threatens social justice, as well as economic damage to society. We need an effective tool for corruption, international and national. The Labour Party is therefore pleased that the law is now being amended so that we get a law that can act as best as possible as a measure in the fight against corruption. Globalisation means that it has become easier to hide away from income, while at the same time it may be difficult through national legislation to get to life bribes that occur abroad. The fight against money laundering and for increased transparency in the financial sector is therefore important in the fight against corruption. It is not easy to determine the extent of corruption, it is inherent in the nature of corruption. Society needs to build a readiness to prevent corruption from developing further, and action needs to be developed before the problem is fully addressed. The increasing internationalisation strengthens the pressure on the Nordic countries. Organized crime really knows no borders, nor corruption. Corruption is a serious anti-society criminal act, which in any case must be severely tackled. The Labour Party therefore supports the proposals in the proposal and points out the importance of Norway now following up its international commitments on anti-corruption measures and that the legal provisions on corruption are now being strengthened and not least brought together in a new general provision. This is how the law becomes clearer and easier to use, and we get, among other things. greater ability to obtain statistics in this area, on which the rapporteur was concerned. We rely on effective criminal provisions against corruption, a claim that the proposition in the opinion of the Workers' Party satisfies. With the changes, we will have a more effective law against corruption. It is important that we raise awareness of corruption as a serious political problem. Society needs to build a readiness to prevent corruption from developing further, and develop measures before reaching the full extent of the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1009	It is a clear objective for the Progress Party that corruption must be brought to life, both in the public and private sectors. The absence of corruption is an important prerequisite for public decision-making by society or by law. In the private sector, the absence of corruption will be an important prerequisite for enterprises and others to make decisions that are economically or otherwise best for their business. Effective anti-corruption legislation will help to give confidence in public decision-making on the objective best basis. Such legislation could also help to ensure fair play in business. What here is a real innovation is the new § 276c. On the part of the Progress Party, we see a real need for a provision that affects so-called 'impact trade'. But it was under some doubt that we fell down to support the committee on this point. The doubts relate primarily to the fact that the provision provides difficult boundaries to what must be called legitimate lobbying, which, in our view, makes it difficult to practice. In the proposition, some issues surrounding the determination were also little elucidated. This also raises some doubts that the provision will hit what you really want to hit, but keep legitimate activities out of it. But at the same time, we see a real need for such a provision, and that made it possible for us today to support the legislative proposals on this point as well. In return, I promise that we will actively monitor how this will be practiced in the future, so that it will be compatible with the intentions. The Progress Party is concerned that we should have a criminal law that is coherent and logical for most people. In this proposition, it seems to us to be a big flaw. This flaw is so obvious that we almost thought it was a forgetfulness. It is linked to Section 128 of the Criminal Code, which now becomes a provision that only poses threats to public officials. For uncertain reasons, fines or prisons have been imposed for up to one year, while the penalty for gross corruption has been set at up to 10 years. If we look at Section 127 on violence against public officials, the penalty is maximum imprisonment for up to five years. This does not make sense for the undersigned. I don't think most people understand that you punish a person more severely because you pay a public official to do something than you use violence or threats to achieve the same thing. In my opinion, such obvious unfairness in terms of criminal prosecution is in destroying the respect and legitimacy of criminal law. The Progress Party has recorded the increasing use of violence and threats against public officials. Therefore, it is important that we have a law that covers up and ensures this. Earlier this year there have been reports that have shown that police officers have had to go in fear of life and health for themselves and their families. Such relationships now all in the committee, except for the Progress Party, want to punish more easily than if a public official were running around with a number of more plentiful bank accounts than he should and should have had. This worries me. For this reason, the Progress Party has proposed that violence against public officials be punishable by imprisonment of at least 6 months and up to 15 years, and that the penalty for threats against public officials be punished by imprisonment of at least 6 months and up to 10 years. In fact, the other parties agree with the intention of the proposal and that they will come back to this in the context of the review of new criminal law. But this does not help those officials who today live in fear that something will happen to themselves and their closest. That is why the Progress Party looks forward to the treatment of new criminal law. There's a lot we have an ambition to do something about it, not least the level of punishment. But for our part, it's not time to sit passive and wait for it to come to treatment. We have also recorded that the Minister of Justice, when he finds it appropriate, makes proposals which he does not think you should wait for and thus promote them and get them dealt with here. So have we. We have tabled two amendments which I am addressing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1024	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1027	Corruption is the theft of the community. The effects of corruption mark primarily those who have small material values, those who cannot afford to pay for benefits. The fight against corruption is therefore an important part of the fight against poverty. But not least, it is important to fight corruption in order to preserve a legal society in which the principle of equality of law prevails and where the confidence in democracy is strong. Corruption is to pay individuals with influence in the private and public sectors to obtain benefits. The benefits can be services, award in bidding rounds, extra service and shorter waiting time. This is a threat to free competition, to the functioning of the market and to confidence in industry and public administration. Corruption also contributes greatly to increasing costs in economic activities, inflating prices and public expenditure, reducing tax revenues, distorting economic activity against short-term gains and deterring investors. Investment and growth suffer, and the poor suffer even more. Corruption is generally most prevalent in the sectors where power is concentrated in a few hands, among others. the construction sector, defence and other sectors in which tenders are widely used. Norway scores high in statistics on low-corruption countries. But even though we are far ahead in a global perspective, we are the worst in the Nordic region. Corruption is a topic that also concerns us, because we do not live in a vacuum. If Norway is to continue to be a low-corruption country in the future, efforts are required from several countries. In particular, business, non-governmental organisations and the public must be aware of the problem and focus on both prevention and control. In my opinion, for example: all establishments operating on the international arena have internal guidelines against corruption. The consequences of corruption actions in labour law should be clarified for all employees. In particular, it will have a preventive and uplifting effect. Research resources must also be given priority to the fight against corruption. If we are to discover corruption actions by resource-intensive, powerful and search-rich criminals, we must have several good investigators with interdisciplinary competence. Auditor’s competence is not least important in detecting corruption and other financial crimes. The so-called money trail is often the only traceable path to the criminal backers. Corruption must also be combated by law. In this respect, the Christian People's Party will praise the Minister of Justice and his staff for presenting a well-worked and good proposition with proposals for criminal provisions against corruption. The proposed provisions are precise and pedagogical, which is necessary not least to ensure the general preventive function of the law. It is important to equalise corruption in public and private activities. In order to ensure sound social development, a well-functioning market and a level playing field, it is also important for the private sector to prevent corruption. I am therefore pleased that the new provisions on corruption in the penal laws § 276 a and 276 b respect the desire for such equality. The provision on the trading of securities in Section 276(c) implies a new criminalisation, but problems associated with it have existed for a long time. In its opinion, the Judicial Committee points out that, in practice, it may be difficult to draw the boundary between legitimate influence activities — or lobbying, as it is often called — and criminal acts. Corruption is a hidden business. This relationship, in conjunction with the serious social damage caused by corruption, requires, in the view of the Christian People's Party, the use of exceptional investigation methods. We therefore support the proposal that communication interception should be permitted where there is a suspicion of gross corruption or attempts to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1053	It is with pleasure that I record that an overall justice authority supports the Government's proposal to introduce new and stricter criminal provisions against corruption. Corruption is a social sin that interferes negatively with political and commercial decision-making processes. Corruption hinders competition on a level playing field and prevents healthy economic development in large parts of the world. Basic values such as legal certainty and human rights are threatened by corruption. The international community has come to grips with the enormous adverse effects of corruption in many countries. For the time being it is in progress, for example: negotiations within the UN system with a view to achieving a worldwide convention against corruption. Of the conventions that Norway has already signed, the Council of Europe's Convention on Criminal Law against Corruption stands in a special position. The Council of Europe Convention provides a main reason for the implementation of the legislative work currently being dealt with. The Council of Europe has also drawn up a civil law convention on corruption. The question of the need for legislative changes in order to ratify this Convention is now dealt with in the Ministry. Norway has played an important role in international work against corruption, and we have placed great emphasis on being clearly present in international forums. As everyone here knows, the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has set up its own corruption and money laundering project, led by Eva Joly. This has been noticed by many, and it has given us an international impact of its own. In order to be listened to internationally, we need to have criminal provisions that allow us to ratify the European Council Convention without reservation. However, the Government’s proposals go beyond the Convention’s requirements in important respects. On this point too, I am pleased to have received the support of the Justice Committee. I find reason to stress that there is not only a relation on the international arena that has justified the bill. The current provisions on corruption have not been adapted to today’s society. Penalties are consistently low, resulting in international criticism, among other things. from the OECD. In addition, corruption in the private and public sectors is treated according to different sets of rules. Both the criminal framework and the terms of punishment are different, without the fact that it is always easy to see the reasons for this discrimination. The government’s proposals are designed to meet the many challenges posed by societal developments in this area. The proposed main provision – Section 276(a) of the Penal Code – is therefore given a very broad impact field. Both active and passive briberies can be punished and the provision does not take into account whether a public establishment or a private establishment or organisation is affected. I am pleased to note that the Committee agrees with me that both the terms of criminality and the penalties should be the same, regardless of whether corruption takes place in the public or private sector. The Council of Europe Convention opens up the possibility of penalising in the private sector the conduct of industrial activities. In my view, it is unfortunate to limit the impact fields of the rules in this way. The most innovative feature of the bill is the new § 276c on impact trading. While it is difficult to say anything about the extent, it is certainly also true in Norway that people who have a relationship with a decision-maker abuse this position to obtain unjustified benefits. It is therefore important that we protect ourselves against impact agents who do not play with open cards. The new penal code § 276 c sends out a signal that, in my view, is not to be misunderstood: undue influence activities will no longer be accepted. Having strict criminal provisions against corruption is not enough in itself. Police must also be provided with means to detect these conditions, which will always take place in secret. With a penalty of 10 years in case of gross corruption, the police will have access to intercepting telephones, checking e-mail messages, etc. In some cases, this will be absolutely necessary to provide the necessary evidence. I have registered the proposal of a minority in the committee to amend the penal code §§ 127 and 128. No one should doubt that the Government is taking violence and threats against public officials and their families seriously. However, this is outside the scope of this law, and I find it more natural, like the majority of the committee, for the minority's proposals to be considered in the context of the ongoing review of the criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1076	The speakers who are given the floor now have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1079	In the previous case, we have dealt with criminal aggravation in the area of organised crime, and in this case a new criminal order against corruption is proposed in the penal code. This is good, and is a follow-up and harmonisation in relation to the Council of Europe Convention on Criminal Law of 27 January 1999. Corruption can hinder economic development and distort competition. It is therefore important to combat corruption actively and effectively. The proposal for a new criminal order against corruption has received broad support from the hearing bodies. I want to connect to the previous case about organized crime. The most brutal, most cynical criminals will replace social order with social disorder, they will replace the rule of law and the rule of law with lawlessness and anarchy, they will tear down democratic institutions and undermine legal decisions. From history and the present, we all know that in some countries, a person can buy himself out of bribery problems, arrange contracts through insider dealing and insiders, and in the worst cases, criminal elements of corruption, violence, threats and manipulation can take over the governance of a society. This begins in the small, but if corruption culture breaks down, more and more people will eat the load, more and more will participate in criminal acts and less and less respect law and order. I am pleased that the Government takes this seriously, both through today's proposals and through the prioritisation of the fight against corruption through, among other things. Ecocrim and by the appointment of Eva Joly as Special Representative in the field. We like to think that there is little or no corruption in Norway. I also want to believe that, but we see that there are things. It appears with irregular spaces. It therefore needs to be done to keep the culture of corruption outside the Norwegian public administration and outside the business world as far as possible. Today's decision is important, and it shows that the Government is actively working on a broad front to counteract a slippage in society where corruption, where organised crime, where various forms of cross-border crime are brought into the Norwegian community. This is therefore important. Introducing this penalty will be both preventative and important in relation to our international obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1097	The basis for this motion for a resolution on criminal prosecution against corruption is the Council of Europe Convention on Criminal Justice against Corruption of 27 January 1999, which was signed by Norway on the same day. It is through the ratification of this Convention that the States undertake to have effective, proportionate and preventive sanctions against corruption. As this is not stated in the setting, I would like to remind you that Stortinget is already working on St.prp on Friday this week. No 60, on the consent to the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Criminal Justice on Corruption of 27 January 1999 and the signing of the Additional Protocol. In this respect, the Foreign Affairs Committee concludes with the recommendation from the Ministry that Norway ratify the Council of Europe Convention on Criminal Justice on Corruption and sign the Additional Protocol. Since I am rapporteur on this issue, which is due to be raised on Friday, I would just like to make a brief mention here that the Foreign Affairs Committee fully agrees with the Government that the European Council Convention represents an important innovation in the fight against corruption and that the Convention will lead to harmonisation and strengthening of the criminal law of the parties in this area – that is the very thing we are dealing with here today. The Supplementary Protocol also clarifies the application of the Convention to arbitrators and jurors.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1104	SV agrees with the position that's on the table, so there's no reason to say much more than that we join the posts that have been held by the majority of the committee. A small remark that in this case the majority wants to await the review of the Penal Court Commission in order to decide whether to accept increased penalties in relation to the penal code § 128: There are generally good reasons to do so. You might see that it could also be like this in other cases, when other parties need it, that you see things in context. SV is pleased that this matter has come up. One of the things that I think it's important to be aware of when it's about corruption is that it's probably not about the same type of crime – at least not just – that you're talking about, but part of it's what you call a white-collar criminal with a popular term. It's about people we might not be able to imagine driving like that – but it happens. It's important to keep in mind when we talk about this, that things can happen here that can affect society, but that sometimes it's done by people you couldn't imagine doing something like that. And I also think it is important that, to the extent that there is a large economic gain in such crimes, you have to be very aware of making provisions that allow you to withdraw these economic gains. For that is where the whole gain lies for the criminal, and that is where the loss will feel the greatest. To the extent that you manage to prevent anyone from getting out of an accusation with the winnings held in a bank account somewhere, you have probably achieved little. I expect the Minister of Justice to pursue that idea in the future both in these criminal and in other criminal regulations, because I do not think there is any doubt that to the extent that you can eliminate all the economic gain from crime, it is the most crime-preventing thing you can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1113	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 869]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1129	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1136	In the proposal, the Ministry of Justice proposes to amend Section 28 of the Administrative Act in order to have a more precise regulation of the right to appeal against the decision of the Board of Appeal to reject a complaint. The aim of the proposal in the proposal is to ensure that the rejection question can always be tested twice, while there is no opportunity for testing in three instances. It is therefore proposed that there should be no right of appeal against the decision rejecting the appeal body a. where the sub-committee has also rejected the appeal, as at day-to-day. when the sub-committee has tried the rejection question and found that the formal conditions for the processing of facts were present c. when the King will be the Board of Appeal. where the complaint has been rejected by an independent appeal body; Furthermore, it is proposed to legislate that the county should be the body of appeal when the complaint has been rejected by a municipal or county body as a review body. In its Annual Report for 2000, the Ombudsman has expressed his criticism of the fact that the Administrative Act does not provide a clear answer to the question of the right to appeal against a decision of a Board of Appeal to reject a complaint. An overall committee considers that it was positive that the Ministry of Justice followed up this criticism in the letters of consultation of 6 June 2002 and proposed clarification of legislative changes. It is important to ensure the legal certainty of citizens in public proceedings. It is an important prerequisite for people's confidence in public that the procedure is reassuring. An overall committee is of the opinion that the proposed amendment to Section 28 of the Administrative Act will increase the legal certainty of the individual in relation to the public. The proposed amendment of the law poses few practical problems for management. The importance of citizens as parties to administrative matters is greater than that of any minor increase in the workload of each unit. It must be borne in mind that many of the matters decided upon in the administration are of great importance to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1164	The aim of the current legislative proposal is to clarify the question of whether an appeal can be brought against a decision of rejection in the administration. It is therefore gratifying that the Judicial Committee endorses the Government's proposal to clarify Section 28 of the Administrative Act. With this amendment, it will be very clear for the future when the decision of the Board of Appeal to reject a complaint can be appealed and when the appeal is dismissed. Our 1967 administrative law specifies, among other things: the general rules of procedure when individual decisions are taken by State and municipal administrative bodies. These may be decisions of a very different nature, from those which give the party the right to public benefits in the form of money or services, through authorisations for various activities, such as under the Law on Planning and Building, to decisions involving injunctions, prohibitions or impositions. The law has proven to be viable through daily use for over 30 years. The main principles stand true today. But the viability is conditional on also making the changes and clarifications that the practical life shows are necessary. Today’s legislative change involves a compromise between different considerations. On the one hand, it is unequivocally stated that the rejection question shall always be tested twice. On the other hand, it is also established that the legislation does not open up for testing in three instances. The possible contrast between legal certainty and efficiency has, in my view, found its point of balance here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1175	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 871]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1191	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1198	On 12 June 2002, the Storting took a decision to ask the Government to set up a central directory relating to the head office of the State Cartel Office in the municipality of Ringerijke, in line with the recommendations of the Justice Committee contained in the Innst. S. No 221 for 2001-2002. The project of transferring the hearing authority from the District Courts to the State Mapping Office shall be carried out in parallel with the changes in the structure of the courts, see. St.meld. No 23 for 2000-2001, the Court of First Instance in the future. The transfer shall include, inter alia: therefore, gradually take place by the gradual transfer from the rights of property to the State Mapping Office. This means that until around 1 August 2007, the clarification of matters will take place both at the district courts where there is no transfer of information and at the Staten Kartverk. After 1 August 2007, the Ministry aims to ensure that the State Mapping Office will be responsible for the clearing of matters alone. Such a centralisation of the clearing of matters necessitates some technical changes to the law on disclosure of information and in some other laws. The changes in the laws must include both the fact that, for a period of time, things are being cleared by two organs and that they will only take place at the State's cart. When adding the authority to the Staten Kartsverk, the authorities must, among other things: the terms ‘substantial judgments’ and ‘judgments’ are amended in some laws. It is therefore proposed that the terms ‘judgments’ and ‘substantial judgments’ should be terminated and replaced by the term ‘registrer’. Registerers will be both the person or persons of the Cartel Office who has jurisdiction and the judge of the court that still has jurisdiction. Registrars must have a legal examination or equivalent. These changes do not imply any changes in the substance of the disclosure of facts. The assessment of how the levying of a fee should be organised in order to ensure the best possible performance of the country’s revenues, while taking into account cost-effective collection, raises many technical and practical issues. The development of the legislation should therefore be seen in the light of the views of the Ministry of Justice, inter alia. the technological development of payment services. The practical organisation of new legislation is made in parallel with the development of the new thing clearing computer system and the transfer of the directorying authority to the Staten Kartsverk. Therefore, the proposal merely involves a purely regulatory change opening up to a future conversion of the payment system. An overall committee will emphasise that the method of payment of the bill of enquiry and the document fee must depend on what is most appropriate at any time. The appropriateness assessment may be carried out by the Ministry of Justice and, consequently, proposals for amendment to the Law on Legal Fees and the Act on Document Fee are supported. Any change in the method of payment should be justified in terms of cost-effective collection and the best possible hedge of the country’s income. The Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that the Government is now following up the Storting's wish to create a common directory of things.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1215	As the Central Party has not had the opportunity to follow the committee's examination of the matter, I will only be allowed to justify briefly the views of the Central Party and also explain what our vote will be like. This case is the result of a previous treatment about the whole organization of the case, a question that there have been shared opinions about in Stortinget, and to which the Center Party also had opinions when it was dealt with. The centre party went against the organisation of things that is now proposed in the law. We still believe that what is now being put up for inverting the facts, opens up a stronger centralisation of the clearing of things, while at the same time ignoring the considerable competence that has been established in this area, the fact that the system has worked well, and that there has also been significant guidance activities for both professional users and the general public. The centre party therefore shares the position of the Workers' Party and SV in the setting, where it is said that one does not view this as a positive follow-up to the wish of the majority of the population. On that basis, the Centre Party will also vote against the present law position, which will then fall down the Institute in the way that the Centre Party has previously opposed it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1224	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 871]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1240	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1247	We who are so lucky to have seats here in the main hall, adopt a whole series of laws and changes in laws – almost every day. But unfortunately, small and large-scale faults occur, and that of course needs to be corrected. The government attaches great importance to quality assurance and regulatory simplification. This will include, inter alia: through the Government’s Action Plan for a simpler Norway. Legal data and the different departments have therefore done a great deal of work to go through legislation. The impressive work done to get a proper law must be praised. A law of good technical quality is very desirable. Good technical quality makes it easier to use the legislation to identify and understand the rules. Only the obvious errors are included in the proposals. Most of the errors that are corrected are where the law refers today to the law or regulation that has been repealed or replaced. Other errors that persist, such as changes in names, institutions and the like, have not been followed up by changes in the law. In addition, there are paragraphs and paragraphs that have been deleted by error and, of course, mere typographical errors. In the proposal, the government suggests correcting errors in 127 laws. After having been made aware of, but also after a thorough review of the law by the committee, we have discovered further defects in the search warrant. We have mentioned this in our remarks, and we have proposed amendments to the Law of 29 May 1953 No. 3 in the case of infested goods. A total of 127 laws are now in place to correct errors. As rapporteur of the case, I am very pleased that there is a joint committee that is now cancelling the errors in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1262	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 873]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1278	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 888]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1294	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes per group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no replications after the individual posts, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1301	Odelstningsproposition No. 74 amends the Patient Injury Act so that it now includes private health services. Patient injury law for the public health service came into force on 1 January 2003 but was exposed to private health services. With today’s decision, therefore, the Patient Injury Act is completed and can enter into force in its entirety. The new law applies to the health services as a whole, including municipal hospitals and the private health services. A collective committee is pleased that the government has come back to the Storting with an extension of its scope. Patient injury law is important because it is effective when health services fail. It's about people who have to live with the harm they're being inflicted by the health care system. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that patients are at the centre of health services, and respect must be shown in all areas of life. When the laws have been completed and private health care is included, this is a brand day for those who have fought, and for those who are still fighting. To this end, the Committee supports the Ministry’s proposal that the Patient Injury Act should enter into force on 1 January 2004. In the Patient Damage Act, it was originally stated that Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation would settle all claims, including the requirements where the insurance company was responsible for covering the claims. The Committee has noted that the laws were not implemented by such a system, since the insurance companies were not willing to offer insurance if they did not get the right to claim at the same time. Against this background, the Committee supports the fact that insurance undertakings themselves are able to meet the requirements they may become liable to cover. The Committee also endorses the proposal that Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation should be responsible for the damage done under its public responsibility to provide health services. This will ensure the highest level of safety for patients in public health care. Due to the uncertainty that has emerged about the size of the insurance market in connection with the amendment of the law, and thus the need to allocate responsibility after patient injury, the Committee supports the Ministry to amend Section 8. The Committee agrees with the proposal so as to allow the definition of limits of liability in the insurance contract. The Committee also supports the possibility to call for the case to be brought directly before the Patient Injury Subject for treatment there. This shall only act as a safety valve. In order to avoid unnecessary additional work on the patient injury subject leading to an increase in the overall duration of proceedings, the Committee noted that the time limit should not be too short. Matters that initially require a long period of care may be prevented from receiving direct treatment in the subject of the patient’s injury. The Committee has also noted that the Ministry opens the procedure for granting an authorisation to make provision for the payment of property to Norwegian Patient Indemnity Compensation. The Committee emphasizes, as the Ministry, that in the cases where an agreement is made or a particular feature is made, the characteristics shall not be deducted from the compensation paid to the patient, but shall be covered by the person responsible for the operation. The Committee believes that the Ministry has the right to have an important effect on the determination of characteristics, which may increase the motivation for creating good practices in health institutions. In sum, Ot.prp. No 74 a strengthening of the patient's position in the scheme. Finally, I would like to recommend to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1327	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 892]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1343	No one has asked for the floor. The things on today's maps are done. [[Footing, see page 893]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1358	Odelstinget would then be ready to vote in case no. 1-12.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1365	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's proposals by Knut Storberget, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, on the proposals No. 1-6, from Inga Marte Thorkildsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President takes first of all the proposal from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left and the proposals No. 1 and 6 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal from the Socialist Left and the Labour Party reads: ‘The Government asks for review of the law in the areas of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, Norway recommends to look at, with a view to making the Children’s Convention more visible.’ Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting on the requirements for formal child-care knowledge for professional groups working with children or who need child-care professional competence in their professional activities.’ Proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The decision asks the Government to determine the competence to expel and expel foreigners under Chapter 5 of the Foreign Affairs Act should be transferred to the courts.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1496	There is an aberrant proposal, No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Act of 10 February 1967 on administrative proceedings, the first paragraph of Section 17 shall be replaced by the following:The management body shall ensure that the matter is as well informed as possible before a decision is taken. It shall ensure that minor parties are given the opportunity to express their views, if the minor parties so wish. The views of minors shall be given due weight in accordance with age and development.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1560	There is an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 February 1986 Section 6 on adoption shall be replaced by the following:As a general rule, the child shall be informed and given the opportunity to comment before an adoption authorisation decision is taken. If the child is not heard, the reason must be given in writing. The opinion of the child shall be given due weight, in accordance with its age and maturity. The child has the right to be heard, but not to be heard."
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1602	For these paragraphs there are two different proposals, Nos. 3 and No 5, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In Act No 17 July 1992 100 in the case of child protection services, the first paragraph of Section 6-3 shall be replaced by the following:As a general rule, the child shall be informed and given the opportunity to comment before a decision is taken on a matter relating to him or her. If the child is not heard, the reason must be given in writing. The opinion of the child shall be given due weight, in accordance with its age and maturity. The child has the right to be heard, but not to be heard." Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘In Act No 17 July 1992 100 on child protection services, the first paragraph of Section 4-15 shall be replaced by the following: Within the framework set out in Section 4-14, the place of placement shall be chosen primarily on the basis of the child's peculiarity and the need for care and training in a stable environment. Account shall also be taken of the fact that continuity of the child's education may be desirable, taking into account the child's ethnic, religious, cultural and linguistic background. Furthermore, account shall be taken of the likely duration of the placement and whether it is possible and desirable for the child to have association and other contact with the parents.»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1678	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1688	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1708	B, C and D shall be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1715	During the debate, Mr Thorkildsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left, put forward two proposals. The proposals are as follows: ‘1. The government is asking for the establishment of an international Children's Protection Department.2. The Storting asks the Government to assume that the marriage is to be carried out only by notary publicus on the basis of today's civil marriage.» [[judgment of the Court of First Instance]] These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1787	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1868	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1879	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e1887	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposal: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals so that the loss of the right to drive a motor vehicle is regarded as punishment.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e2168	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e2178	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e2241	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e2251	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e2259	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by André Kukkestad, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, by No Marte Thorkildsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e2338	For the first subparagraph, there is an aberrant proposal, No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The penal code shall be amended as follows:Article 60(a) first subparagraph shall be replaced by the following:If a criminal offence has been committed in the course of the activities of an organised criminal group, the maximum penalty in the penalty shall be increased twice, but not more than a total penalty of 30 years in prison.’; The Socialist Left Party has announced that they are moving towards the whole paragraph. There will therefore be a vote first on the proposal from the Progress Party, then on the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e2377	For the first sentence of the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first sentence of the first paragraph of Article 61 shall be replaced by the following:If a person who has previously been convicted commits a criminal offence of the same nature as he has previously been convicted, the maximum sentence shall be increased to 30 years’ imprisonment, unless the offender decides otherwise.’ In addition, the Progress Party wishes to vote against the second paragraph, the first sentence, and the Socialist Left Party will vote against the whole paragraph. The proposal of the Party for Progress is first contested, then the first sentence of the second paragraph and finally the second paragraph of the paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e2442	For the first sentence of the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first sentence of the first subparagraph of Section 162(c) of the Penal Code is amended as follows:The person who is associated with someone to commit an act punishable by imprisonment for at least 4 years or who is affected by the first paragraph of Section 204 or 257 and who is to be committed in the course of the activities of an organised criminal group shall be sentenced to imprisonment for up to 4 years, unless the relationship is subject to a more stringent criminal code.’ The Progress Party has notified that they are moving towards the second sentence of the first paragraph. Alternatively, the Committee's position shall be replaced by the first sentence of the first subparagraph by the SV's proposal, then the second sentence of the first subparagraph by the second sentence of the second subparagraph and finally above the second subparagraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e2507	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e2622	For the fourth subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 224, fourth paragraph, is replaced by the following:Major trafficking in human beings is punishable by imprisonment up to 10 years. In determining whether the infringement is serious, particular attention shall be paid to whether the person who was subject to the offence was under 18 years of age, whether serious violence or coercion was used, and whether the perpetrator was previously punished under Sections 202, 224 or 225.» Paragraph 224, first, second and third paragraphs, then alternately between the position of the Committee on the fourth paragraph and the proposal of the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e2787	The President will vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party to § 216a. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Criminal Procedures Act, point (b) of the first paragraph of Section 216a is replaced by the following:(b) which is affected by Chapter 8 or 9, of Section 162, Section 224 or Section 317, cf. Section 162 or of the Act on Control of Exports of Strategic Goods, Services and Technology etc. Section 5.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e2930	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e2940	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e2947	During the debate, Mr Ellingsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e2982	The President here will vote on the proposal of the Progress Party to Section 127. The proposal reads as follows: «The penal code shall be amended as follows:§ 127 shall be replaced by the following:He who, by violence, seeks to form a public official to perform or to refrain from any service act or to prevent him during any such act, or who participates in it, shall be sentenced to imprisonment for up to 10 years, and minimum imprisonment for 6 months. If he has previously been punished for a violent crime, or if he commits the crime in association with anyone else, he may be punished with imprisonment for up to 15 years.If the official has given undue cause for the crime, fines or prisons shall be applied for up to 2 years.As public servants of the railways are also regarded as officers, military guards and any person who, after being called or required to provide assistance to a public servant.In the event of reciprocity, the king may decide that the above penalty shall also apply to crimes against the public authority of another country."
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e3017	There is a different proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘§ 128, first and second paragraphs, shall be replaced by the following:The person seeking, in the event of a threat, to form a public official to engage in, or to refrain from, an act of service or to contribute thereto shall be sentenced to imprisonment for up to 10 years, and to minimum imprisonment for 6 months. If the official has given rise to the crime in improper circumstances, fines or prisons shall be applied until 2 years.The present second and third subparagraphs shall become the third and fourth subparagraphs."
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e3156	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e3166	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e3244	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e3254	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e3520	The Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e3533	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party will vote against:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e3547	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e5875	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e5885	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e6500	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e6510	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e6690	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e6700	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e6731	The Socialist Left Party and the Center Party have announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e6744	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-06-10-lower-2.ana.ud826e6758	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
