ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e28	The representative, Kristin Halvorsen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The formerly temporarily exempted alternate of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Tone Løwe, has again taken up the seat. The called alternate of the state of Buskerud, Martin Kolberg, has taken the seat. On the basis of the fourth paragraph of Section 26 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the scheduled weekly programme for the current week be amended so that the scheduled meeting at Laginget expires on Thursday 20 February. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative Per Roar Bredvold will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e50	I have the honour, on behalf of Thore A. Nistad, Henrik Rød and myself, to propose an annual tax exemption for stolen cars from the time the car was stolen, if the car does not fit.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e55	The representative of Torstein Rudihagen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e58	On behalf of Svein Roald Hansen and myself, I will be allowed to present a proposal for a tax exemption for grain-based milk product.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e63	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will make four private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e66	On behalf of Øyvind Waksdal, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to make proposals to clarify the responsibility for the power supply and to ensure the means to avoid rationalisation, to propose measures to ensure increased hydropower generation and to propose measures to ensure the rapid construction of gas power plants in Norway. On behalf of myself, I would like to suggest that Teletopia AS immediately ensure access to Telenor Mobil AS' network, so that it is possible for Teletopia to offer SMS messages.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e73	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e96	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Lars SponheimState Council Svein LudvigsenState Council Victor D. Norman The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e115	I would like to ask a question to Minister of Agriculture Sponheim. The WTO Secretariat has presented a proposal for the liberalisation of the WTO legislation on agriculture, which is extreme, in the sense that it will frustrate everything we know about Norwegian agriculture. This will mean a dramatic change in the whole district aid, in the ability to drive food production in Norway in total. I note that also the State Council Sponheim believes that this proposal is dramatic, and that it will rage Norwegian agriculture – even I think he said it was just closing the door by day. This means that on this issue it will be possible for the Government to receive some support by being hard in these negotiations. My question to the government council Sponheim is: is there any realism in that Norwegian positions in WTO negotiations on agriculture have support and can be realised, or is it in practice to box in a dungeon, then you lose, and then the government gives itself last round – for which it is known in so many other negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e126	As you know, the Norwegian proposal was submitted within the time limits set. One might well say about this proposal – which at the most sensitive point reduces customs duties by 10 pst. – that it is the proposal presented in the WTO negotiations that changes at least in the current situation. Following the presentation of this proposal, some countries have agreed to it. This concerns Switzerland, Iceland, Israel and South Korea. A nearby ally, Japan, chose to go for the EU proposal – which goes a little further – but takes some reservations. It is the government's view that we are still going to be at the Norwegian position of the WTO, and are fighting for a result that is closest to it. We know that the second major power block in these negotiations, the EU, has a position that is similar in many areas to the Norwegian one, but which goes a little further in terms of minimum tariff reductions. It was therefore surprising to us that the WTO administration, at Harbinson, when they presented their proposal, was so far from the American side and against the Cairns countries. There is no doubt that no matter how you decipher this proposal for Norwegian relations, the drama is almost total. There will be no production in Norway near what we know about agricultural products today. That is why it is important for the Government – and I will promise that we will give it a very high priority – to do what we can in these negotiations to bring the result as close as possible to the Norwegian position, because it is about the lives of large parts of Norwegian districts and towns. So this becomes a very important priority for agriculture. It is also in accordance with the Sem Declaration, which says very clearly that on the important agricultural products we must have effective rates of duty to protect Norwegian production.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e137	I was not very reassured by the answer. I don't think the WTO is exactly looking at the Sem statement and saying, "Oh, really, these were heavy arguments! So it has to be a little bit heavier behind this. I have to say I'm worried. But I'm calmed down because the Council of State says very clearly that this proposal is dramatic. At the same time, I have to say that when we see the counterclaims that are, it becomes very easy so that again it is the great nations that are able to dictate world trade, dictate liberalisation, both for animal health, for human health and for many others with district aid, which will be dramatic. Then there has to be a plan B. Because usually it's the big ones win. That means the little losers. So what's the Government's plan B about this? The WTO is a consensus organisation. That means that all countries must agree. This means that Norway, as a small nation in this, too, has more weight, more strength than the population would expect. That's why there has to be a Plan B from the Government. If the government actually believes that this is so dramatic, so serious for housing and agricultural production in Norway, then State Council Sponheim must also be able to tell the Stortinget what plan B is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e144	I'm worried – I'm more than worried – because this is a very serious situation. I have not hidden that in any of the comments I have made on behalf of the Government when it comes to this. It's clear that we're going to use our entire contact network and all our diplomatic abilities and opportunities to seek the greatest possible alliances. That's what we're about to do. It was a comprehensive meeting in Japan just before the weekend among the major players in this negotiation process who decided that this draft WTO administration presented by Mr Harbinson is not the basis for further negotiations. So we have to be able to say that even though Norway was not invited to participate there, some of our allies were in these questions, among other things. Switzerland, there. In that case, we have won the first battle, and that we shall not now negotiate on the basis of this dramatic proposal from the WTO administration. This means that before negotiations can begin, there must be a different starting point, and from our point of view, a much better starting point for negotiations. Plan B is to seek alliance with as many countries as possible. In the next round, we also need to cooperate with the EU, which agrees with us in important areas. We must remember that this is also a dramatic proposal for all of Europe's agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e153	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e156	A lot of people are called Desert Gardens in Norway. It comes from the fact that many farms were laid desolate after Svartdeauen. I don't know what to call the farms that might be destroyed if Harbinson's proposal were to go through – but maybe Harrygård, or something like that. I think it is important that this issue be raised from a discussion on the number of percent, because this is not rich countries against poor countries. This is industrial agriculture against small-scale agriculture. This is an attack on those countries in the world that have the most decentralised agricultural production and the most environmentally friendly agricultural production. I think it is important that the Norwegian government also raises the tab in the discussion on this – it raises it beyond the discussion on just the positions. I record that the Minister of Agriculture is concerned, and that he also looks at the possibility of assessing several alternatives, including: to require a new basis for negotiation. Is there also an alternative, if the negotiations were to go away in the way we have now seen, that Norway might consider saying no to the new round of the WTO?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e165	The last question is at least it is impossible to say anything about now, because Norway has many interests related to the WTO that are offensive in the sense that we have export interests. There is also a discussion about what offensive and defensive interests are. In this context, offensive interests are about export interests. Norway shall ensure the integrity of its territory. But there is no doubt that agricultural negotiations are important, because they are the key to finding solutions in other areas as well. This is why agriculture is so important to many countries. Thinking that we shouldn't be involved in finding a solution is a thought I don't think is important and right to think about the current stage. We must now fight to get good solutions for agriculture, while at the same time safeguarding our offensive interests in other economic areas. I agree with what the representative says about the interests of the poorest countries. The poorest countries — especially the 48 MUL countries — need preferences for the rich countries. If preferences are to be effective, it must also be effective rates of duty against developing countries, which have a powerful ability to deliver food, for example. Argentina and Uruguay.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e175	Aud Gaundal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e178	In Norway, 3.5 pst. of our area cultivated. It provides maritime food production, but also cultural landscapes and not least housing. Then there's a great deal of employment related to the 70,000 farms we have. We have 30,000 in the food industry. We have a large mechanical workshop industry that is linked to agriculture. It's transport, it's accounting and not least tourism. The negotiations that are taking place are of very great interest to the whole country, and most seafaringly in relation to the settlement, because it is about the villages. Now I hear the Minister of Agriculture says that it is difficult to see the consequences of the decision, among other things. this at customs rates, before the final result on import protection is in place. Will this mean that the agricultural settlement of the year will not be affected by any negotiated result?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e185	It will be a long time before we know the final outcome of the WTO negotiations. However, Norway has, for its part, provided a position based on a reduction in customs duties by a minimum of 10 pst. We are serious about that. This means that with this proposal we have signaled that we will be taking part in the negotiations. There are many people who have asked me why we don't so say we're going out of the WTO, refuse to deliver position papers or things like that. We need traffic rules for world trade in all areas, including agriculture. That's why it's important that we get involved, with a real position. I have stated, and I believe that I see it difficult in a situation where we will have credibility and accept among other countries because we are serious about our position as we have delivered to the WTO, to go in the opposite direction on the first occasion at home in connection with the agricultural agreement. That doesn't mean we have to start taking some quick steps, or some steps at all, towards what's in the WTO, but we can't go in the opposite direction. It means that I see it as very difficult to increase the target prices of the year's agricultural agreement when a consequence of what we have committed ourselves to at national level in the WTO is the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e192	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e195	The WTO's recording is very much turned up in the media, and I see that the organisations The League of Bonds and the Small User Team are black-painting, although we all know that this is an extreme point. What the WTO has to find out is a minimum common multiple, and we expect it to be roughly at EU level, but it can be serious enough. Reduction of internal aid by 55 pst. may mean minor grants and support to the Norwegian farmer – from DKK 5 to 6 billion. But we have very great opportunities. We can look at milk production in Norway, where each farmer receives on average subsidies of 350,000 kroner. In the case of milk production, a dairy farmer in Norway has had 12-14 dairy cows since the 1970s, and that was roughly the same in the Nordic countries. But the Swedes now have 30 dairy cows per year. farmers, the Danes have 60, and Finns are at full speed in the future. All the other Nordic countries adapt to the world of reality [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e202	Øystein Hedstrom must be so kind to hear when the president clubs. When the time is up, it is exhausted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e205	Developments in Norwegian agriculture are also moving towards a more cost-effective approach to the volume of production we have, which is particularly sensitive to these tariffs. I find it hard to imagine a development in which we will get – let's say – such big units, for example. in milk production, as in Sweden, but all developments are in such a direction, including those contained in the last agricultural agreement, for example: marketable milk quotas. It is also the case that young farmers who are now betting long-term within this may want to be more robust, in the sense that they are building larger units, possibly participating in joint ventures that contribute to larger units. But in relation to the WTO regime, which we are now facing, this is no adjustment that matters. It is probably a drop in the sea in relation to the cost and price reduction requirements that we will meet on this Harbinson proposal. So we're totally dependent on putting a lot of weight into the negotiations, which ensures that we have a framework to run an agricultural industry in Norway at all, even if we were to invest in an even more cost-effective agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e212	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e215	I have a question for the Council of State Norman. Unemployment is now growing sharply. Since the government change in autumn 2001, unemployment has grown from about 60 000 to nearly 100 000 unemployed. There are 75 more people available per year. the day when this government has been held responsible. It is particularly serious that there is an increase in the number of long-term unemployed, those who are long-term unemployed, that youth unemployment is increasing, and that unemployment is again at full speed among the minority population in Norway. We know that the time off is going up more easily than down. Once the unemployment rate has increased, it easily leads to exclusion and permanent exclusion from the labour market. For the Workers' Party, work is for all the main objectives of economic policy, and we believe it is a very serious problem that unemployment is now growing as strongly as it does. I assume that the Government also has as its overall objective the aim of keeping unemployment down, and my question is: is the government's economic policy failed when you don't manage to avoid increased unemployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e224	The government's economic policy has not failed. Unemployment and its increase are very worrying. The most important work in this respect is to prevent the increase in unemployment. It has to do with general economic policy. The government has received a tight budget that has already contributed to two interest reductions and has contributed to a 4-5 pst fall in the krone price. in a relatively short time, thus contributing to a long-term improvement in the competitiveness of Norwegian business. We have put in place an income policy cooperation that means that, in the current year, wage developments in Norway are likely to be significantly lower than they have been in the past. These measures enable fewer jobs to be threatened and provide a basis for new jobs. In parallel with this, we have implemented comprehensive measures to ensure that no more long-term unemployed. We have strengthened Aetat, much more powerful than anyone else in Stortinget has proposed, to provide help and guidance to those who become unemployed, to get them back to work as quickly as possible. We have strengthened Aetat's efforts primarily towards those who have recently become unemployed, to help them get back to work as quickly as possible to prevent them from entering long-term unemployment. And in the case of traditional labour market measures, we have just concentrated these on those groups that are long-term unemployed, who have special problems, in order to prevent a long-term situation of unemployment into which unfortunately they have come, from falling out of work on a lasting basis. Through these measures, we have laid the groundwork for preventing further growth in unemployment, to the extent that we have control over it – unfortunately, we do not have control of international economic developments – and we have arranged for unemployment not to be put at risk for a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e233	The government underestimated the risk of increased unemployment for a long time. A number of government councils stated that there was no particular concern, and the measures that the government is now putting in place are too late and too weak. Significantly stronger instruments are needed to secure jobs and to avoid a historically strong decline in industry and other competing Norwegian enterprises. I'm glad that interest rates are falling, but interest rates are now falling because unemployment is rising. And the Workers' Party will never accept increasing unemployment as an instrument of economic policy. The goal must be that we manage to repeat what we did earlier in the 1990s, as we succeeded in getting both lower unemployment and lower interest rates at the same time. Increasing unemployment in order to control the cost growth of the economy and to reduce interest rates is a very poor economic policy, and I think it is a failure of economic policy when you have such a strong growth in unemployment as this government has administered in the last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e241	The reality is not created by claiming something that is actually not true. This government has done more to create jobs, to prevent people from becoming unemployed, than many previous governments have. I would like to remind you that it is not so many months since the government of Stoltenberg had as its starting point that private business actually had to accept that they would systematically provide jobs to strengthen the public sector. We're not going far back in time to get to a time when the government of Stoltenberg actually increased taxes on business, because it was said that it was more important to facilitate public employment than to facilitate growth and jobs in private business. If we are to prevent long-term unemployment in Norway, we need to facilitate growth in business. There is no government that has done more in that area than the Bondevik II government has done since it joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e248	Then the President intends to allow three follow-up questions – first Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e251	After hearing Norman's reply that the economic policy according to his assessment is obviously successful, after also having heard that we have a sitting government that does more than any previous governments have ever done to avoid unemployment, is my simple question: Can we now expect that the unemployment will go down?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e256	No one can issue guarantees for the development of unemployment, at least not with the international economic image we now have. If the Workers' Party does not have sufficient knowledge of what is happening internationally to be aware that we do not have full control in this area, it will be the Labour Party's problem. What I'm saying is that the government's economic policy is delivering results in the sense of strengthening the competitiveness of Norwegian industry and facilitating conditions for creating new jobs in Norway. In this way, the basis for getting as low a time off as possible is the international framework conditions within which we work. But I can't guarantee economic development in the United States or in the EU. Norway has an open economy. As far as I understand, the Workers' Party has also been a supporter of an open economy. Then it's part of the reality that things happen sometimes outside of Norway's borders that aren't entirely beneficial to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e263	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e266	I have two follow-up questions. First, the Council of State said that there is an income policy cooperation going on, which in itself is good. We should have listened to our proposals one year ago, so we might have prevented the costly wage settlement by giving tax relief instead. Would the Government now agree that the objective of the wage settlement should be a zero settlement, only with a change in the dates of the agreements — no other change? Will the Government negotiate with the parties by offering tax reliefs, so that the positive developments in purchasing power, if any, are ensured? My second question is: can we expect the Government in the context of the revised national budget, if unemployment continues to grow, will stimulate the economy and increase the activity where it can be done, through government appropriations, for example, in the construction sector and other sectors?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e275	To the last question first: The revised national budget will be assessed and shaped on the basis of the economic situation we have in the country at all times and within the framework of the rule of action. The rule of action is very clear on both what the budget is to be used for and what it should not be used for. Besides that, I will not comment on that question. When it comes to the issue of income policy cooperation, I am very pleased that the representative Hagen thinks it is positive that we have put it in place. Now, income policy cooperation is not meant as a negotiating forum for economic policy or the State budget. It is the government and the magnificence to deal with, not the social partners. However, in terms of income policy cooperation, the parties have committed themselves to wage developments that will help us to achieve wage developments more in line with our trading partners. This means that there is no special room for wage increases in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e282	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e285	It must be allowed to say that it is quite encouraging to hear a government council that is pleased with the government's policy, in a situation where hundreds of thousands of people are unemployed. If you ask these hundreds of thousands of people if they are particularly satisfied with all the measures taken by the Norman Council, I think they will answer: No! What in the world is this -- I still don't have work! Obviously, you can't get work overnight in the situation that's now, but reality isn't what Norman describes. The reality is that this government has weakened the competitiveness of Norwegian industry by, among other things, has not wanted to clarify the monetary policy regime, which has strengthened the crown and not strengthened Norwegian business. I think most Norwegian business leaders will agree with this. Nor is Norwegian industry particularly competitive per year. date. This is mainly because you have got a backpack by getting a strong crown. It means that this will be one of the most important things. But my question to the Council of State Norman is this: what should be the engine to get this society going again, if not the Council of State Norman would say that the state can be such an engine, because something has to drag these wheels back on? Hundreds of thousands of people are out of employment, and we have thousands of unsolved problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e294	I had hoped that the representative, Mr. Djupedal, had heard after what I said. I did not say that I was satisfied with the situation in the Norwegian labour market. We have too much time off. We have a worrying situation. But what I said was that I was satisfied with the government's financial arrangements, which will lay the basis for jobs to actually become jobs outside the public sector in Norway in the future. If someone believes that private sector jobs are not created through a combination of tax, interest rates, exchange rates and wages, but believes that there are some other magical ways to strengthen Norwegian business competitiveness, they see something that Norwegian business does not see. Norwegian businesses are talking about competitiveness, exchange rates, wages, interest rates and framework conditions in the form of taxes and other things. The government’s economic policy results in interest rate developments, results in exchange rate developments, results in controlling wage developments in Norway, and, at the same time, the government has made greater tax relief for business than any other government in Norway has done for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e301	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e305	I want to ask the Minister for Fisheries a question. Once again, we are experiencing the fishing and breaking of cod in our northern part of the country. Once again, we feel that the reception capacity is weak, and that they may get poor quality. Last year we experienced the same thing. Something called periodicization was introduced. Now we also experience unrest among a number of groups, especially those groups that may have other species of fish to go on. They might be going on e.g. herring now, and when they're going to rust out to go north on cod fishing, is 75 pst. by the quota allocated. They're then willing to fish their entire quota out in the fall. Does the Council see the problems that this must cause for these boats?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e316	It's a problem, if you can call it, that the insight of cod is very high, and that the availability of fish in the Troms and the West is record high. This makes someone feel the threat that the allowances will be taken too early, and it makes you fear in Lofoten that you won't get your share of them. In addition, as the questioner refers to, some people have so many rights in Norwegian fishing that they cannot decide what to take – whether to take herring or cod. This means that these are priorities that fishermen must be allowed to do and that we politicians should not do. On the other hand, we have periodically fished on the grounds that the whole coast will have its share – 25 pst. of the quota – and we're only talking about fleets of 15–28 meters. All others have guaranteed vessel quotas and can decide for themselves when to fish. The group of 15-28 meters we've periodicated with 25 pst. in the autumn. This is a wish from industry and from fishermen to ensure that one can also have a fish in Finnmark beyond the harvest, and to ensure that one can have by-catch of cod on hake and seismic fisheries. If we take up the total quota, we may have to stop the whole sea fishing and hay fishing in the autumn because we don't have cod for by-catch. The consideration of the industry has made us periodical as we have done. Overregulation is record low. And then I want to say, the regulation we have implemented now is fully in line with the recommendations made by the Board of Regulators in December, and the Board of Regulators – the fishermen and industry in common – has given us this advice. On the part of the Director of Fisheries, a free fishery was set up, with the consequence that once the quota has been taken, it will be stopped. But now the fishermen have got it the way they wanted it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e327	I know that when the Council of State joined, he had as one of his three main points that there would be profitability in the industry. For some of these vessels, which have multiple rights, as the Council of State says, it is a well-known fact that they have marginal quotas. If they are to be paid with their boat, they must have the opportunity to take up the quotas allocated to them, at a time when there is also a good price, and at a time when there may also be wages in the fishing itself, because the fish is close up below land and not far at sea, because one has short lead distances, etc. This makes these problems when we get to the fall. They may not have taken anything of their cod quota in ours, but they're going to take their entire cod quota in the fall. Then we get a catch, maybe with poor quality, the fishing goes far to sea, etc. It's true that the industry is behind it. But when you see that it doesn't work, you can fix it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e334	Yes, it is true that I said that profitability needs to be improved – from fjord to table – and that it will be easier to be a fisherman. This means that fishermen need to be given greater opportunities to adapt to operations. They do. But we must not regulate fishing in such a way that we give priority to those who have the most rights and the best opportunities. When the herring fishermen now complain that the council cannot hold back any cod quotas until they have fished what they have the right to do with herring, it will be wrong. When considering profitability, we need to ensure that the industry also has the opportunity to operate for a full-year period. With the good fishing we now have, it actually means that we allow the entire cod fishing to be avoided during the winter season. This means that the industry does not have raw material and can supply the market beyond the harvest. This means that other parts of Norway, especially the Finnmark coast, will be free of raw material for the autumn if we are to give priority as requested. But again – these were assessments made in the Board of Regulators, and I have followed the Board of Regulators' recommendations to point and point.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e343	The President will allow two follow-up questions – first Åsa Elvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e346	The Board of Regulators provides advice, but one is not required to follow bad advice. In Question Time last year – a little later than this time – we were as concerned as we are this year. What the questioner did not point to was that at the same time as an over-regulator with regard to coastal fishermen – when they can be allowed to deliver cod – there is a lifting of what is called a periodation for the sea fishing fleet. So one has instructed coastal fishermen to ensure that the industry has equal access to raw materials. We are today in a situation where one fisherman is fighting with the other of fear of not being allowed to deliver, or of fear that the total quota will be drawn up before the fisherman is allowed to take his share. We had the exact same situation last year. I'm wondering if it's not time to think completely new. Is it not time to say that the time for overregulation is over and that we are forced to introduce new forms of regulation? And isn't it time to take the signal and assess whether you might need to look at new regulations for 2003 as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e355	There is every reason to take the experience from previous years, but I think there is every reason to listen to the industry itself. What we did in the harvest was just listening to the industry. We canceled the periodicization for all groups, except for the fleet of 15 to 28 meters. All the others have guaranteed quotas, and in this way they can plan their own fishing and, in cooperation with industry, ensure that they have production throughout the year. So they can pick up a higher price. In the case of overregulation, legal regulation is lower than ever. From the authorities, we had made an overregulation of 3 pst. and no periodication. It asked the industry and industry even to get away, and they suggested the regulatory regime we have set up – so listening to the industry can be so diverse. Shall I listen to the Board of Regulators, which is the foremost advisory body we have, recommend me in the middle of December, or shall I listen to what they say in January and February?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e362	Steinar Bastesen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e365	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: Once periodicisation has been adopted, 30 pst. the cod quota is fished in December. What does the Minister for Fisheries intend to do to ensure that 30 pst. is fished by the coastal fleet and by conventional gears, instead of being fished by the sea fishing fleet, i.e. of the trawls, which would be a supplement to the coastal fishing fleet? What does the Minister for Fisheries intend to do to ensure that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e370	Now I'm a little uncertain about what the questioner refers to, both in terms of percentages and the distribution between the fleet groups. But what can be said is that the distribution between the sea fishing fleet and the coastal fishing fleet is fixed. There has been broad agreement on this, and it is firm. Then the coastal fishing fleet has been divided into four groups, the so-called Finnmark model, in order to avoid that it tastes like fish from the small to the large. It's something new. In the past, it has been possible to transfer fish from small to large boats, and we have stopped that. But it's the way that overregulation is 10 pst. for vessels between 15 and 28 metres and 25 pst. periodicalisation for the same fleet group, i.e. that we ensure fish beyond the harvest. But the problem, as it travels, I have some problems getting hold of. But let me say something in addition: the Raw Fish Act is an instrument that fishermen and their sales organisations can use, and they are now using it in connection with the implementation of the Lofoten fisheries through weekly quotas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e379	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e383	I have a question for the Minister of Labour. Victor Norman said here earlier today that the main objective of the Government of Economic Policy is that unemployment does not increase. Now unemployment is increasing, and it's increasing dramatically. If it is important to avoid this happening, it must be possible to conclude that the policy has failed. Any government must find itself in, behind all the words, being measured by its results. The result is that every day, from Monday to Friday, while this government has been sitting, an average of 100 new people have gone into unemployment. And for everyone who gets unemployed, it's maybe five to ten pieces that are unsafe about his job. 250,000 fears that they will lose their job in 2003. My question is, does Victor Norman see that this is serious?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e392	First, if any government that has experienced an increase in unemployment over a period of time has failed, then we must note that there have been numerous workers' party governments after the war that have failed, for example. Harlem Brundtland, in 1986 and beyond, just for saying so. I will not claim that the government of Harlem Brundtland was not concerned with unemployment. We are concerned about unemployment, but we have to remember that there have been a number of things, including: we have been through a long period from the mid-1980s until now with a massive growth in public employment and a systematic deterioration in the conditions of competition for private business. I think we all realize that if we are to create sustainable jobs in Norway, we need to have a better balance between the public and private sectors. In that case, for a period of time, we will have to take a boost to strengthen the competitiveness and framework conditions of business, if we are to achieve sustainable development in the labour market. So if we're serious about taking the unemployed and the job-seekers solemnly, we can't just fill up with public posts to keep unemployment down in the short term, because then we're creating more unemployment in the longer term. What the government has done is to bring about a better balance between the public and private sectors, and to facilitate a development that started in the mid-1980s and has continued until today, so that industry will have a framework that will make it profitable to start new business in Norway, which means that we will have wage developments in Norway under control and come in line with our trading partners. This means, therefore, that, through a difficult transition period, we can have an interest rate and exchange rate development that will enable business to survive. It is the only policy we can pursue in this country if we really believe that we should have low unemployment, not only in the short term, but also in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e401	The Council of State is talking about taking a ‘power cap’ in the economy, but it can’t make sense that there are 40,000 new unemployed who are going to take that cap to get the Norwegian economy organized. It also leads to a massive social loss that hundreds of thousands go free instead of doing sensible tasks in Norwegian society. The most serious thing is that unemployment for each individual does not only affect networks, social performance and security, but it affects the family economy, and it affects the children who are in families who lose income in the family economy. In addition, this government has cut off what the unemployed get. With the decisions taken here before Christmas for the 2003 government budget, a person with average income, who goes unemployed for an entire year, will lose between 15 000 and 20 000 kroner in his economy. And then Victor Norman said in the big debate on December 12th, yes, this increases the pressure on the individual to get to work. Is this a fair policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e408	The last one is sit-fucking-fucking. What I said was that the combination of the conversion of day-to-day pay legislation, closer follow-up by Aetat and better advice all in all will lead to the individual getting to work more quickly, and that is the individual employee's service. I hope that the representative Giske agrees that the goal of labour market policy is to get people back to work, not to keep people unemployed. At the same time, the changes we made in the day-to-day pay legislation are controversial, but overall, our assessment is that the typical unemployed person does not get any worse. On the other hand, the average unemployed person will return to work more quickly. That's what's my principal answer as well: Yes, I'm just as upset and worried about the high number of unemployed as Giske is, but I'm, unlike Giske, primarily concerned that people are going to get back to work quickly, and I had hoped that the representative Giske too would agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e415	There will be two follow-up questions – first Eirin Fallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e418	I record that every time the Council of State is confronted with the sad numbers of unemployment, he manages to blame the Workers' Party in an elegant way. I want to say it in a popular way: now the council must let go of the skirts of its mother and take responsibility. The situation of children is largely influenced by the family economy. I want to angle it to you, because my position is child and family policy. Among the 20,000 children that the Government itself has documented live on the poverty line in Norway, there are children of unemployed parents, there are children of non-Western immigrants and there are children of lonely caregivers. Many children suffer from the fact that they cannot participate in social activities, and the reason for this is that their parents are unemployed, they simply cannot afford to let their children participate in such important activities. What will the Council of State do specifically to prevent children from growing up to further poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e427	I guess the answer is self-evident. Governments, like the Government, will do everything they can to prevent unemployment and to get unemployed people back to work as quickly as possible. I have previously discussed the measures we are taking to prevent both unemployment and to create new jobs. I have previously mentioned the policy we are pursuing to ensure that people who are so unlucky to become unemployed will return to work quickly. And that's the best policy we can take, to actually also help the children of those who are so unhappy to become unemployed. So I don't want to owe the Workers' Party in any way. What I'm saying is that the simple solution to the unemployment problem, which is constantly increasing employment in the public sector and putting increased burdens on private business, helps in the short term, but it's going to create many more unemployed in the longer term, as we've seen, for example. in Sweden, in which case we will have many more children with unemployed parents in five to ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e434	May Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e437	I am also concerned about the unemployed. The Council of State says these should be "rapidly back to work". Unemployment in Eastfold is increasing dramatically, as elsewhere in the country, and I have received some requests that the unemployed have not received a single job offer for over one year. Delayed payments of unemployment benefits are also reported. The life situation of the unemployed becomes unpredictable and unworthy, and this is unacceptable. It is a very heavy burden for those who are involved, and for families and children, who also Eirin Fallet was in. Universities around the country are a very good offer to many who want to come back to work. I've brought this up with the Council of State before. These schools are now threatened with closure due to a reduction in State subsidies. The two things I've mentioned now are very bad with the state's description of the government's active policy towards the unemployed, and I now want to hear what the Council of State will actually do with these two things.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e444	With regard to concrete measures to help people who are unemployed, it is primarily about the framework conditions for which Aetat is given, how Aetat is to work, and what action programmes are available to them. Our view is, and will continue to be, that Aetat has the best prerequisites for assessing the types of action to be offered to individuals and the types of programmes to be included in Aetat's activities. That is why I will continue to rely on the management of Aetat as to which specific course, which specific arrangements, which specific schools will be involved in the action. And that's part of the government's work for delegation and decentralization. We've strengthened Aetat, we've reorganized Aetat, we've done more for Aetat than anyone else has done, at least for the last eight to ten years. We've strengthened Aetat more than anyone else in Stortinget has suggested, and that's because we see Aetat as a very central tool in the work so that those who are so unfortunate to become unemployed are actually going to get a good offer from the public. We have a long way to go before the offer is perfect, but it's better.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e449	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e453	I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. This government seems to be deeply satisfied with the economic policy pursued by the Government, and also with the labour market policy it has pursued, despite the fact that unemployment is rising sharply. I guess no one disagrees with the importance of interest rates and exchange rates, but there are some questions about which industrial policy strategy this government has in relation to taking care of existing jobs and also creating new jobs. It is not too hard to say that some of us lack a more active and focused industrial policy in relation to jobs across the country. An example that we see in these days is the serious situation in which the Norwegian fishing industry is. It is so serious that we can actually risk meeting a situation where the fishermen are not getting their fish, because the reception facilities are either closed or are in danger of being shut down. The question is quite simply: what policy strategy does the Government and the Minister for Fisheries have in relation to the serious situation in the fishing industry and the jobs associated with the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e462	Let me first deal with the delivery problems in the fishing industry. In a questioning round we had before, it was clearly shown that that is not the problem. In fact, it's buying too much, and the problem is that fish are now being received so quickly that the quotas are being picked up too early. With regard to the challenges of the fishing industry, they are significant. There's no doubt about it. Market problems are one side of it. There are structural problems both on the fishing side and on the production side. Overcapacity makes profitability poor. Labour costs are such that the Norwegian fishing industry loses. One example is that it costs $3 to cut fish in China against 15 kroner in Norway. On the part of the Government, we are pursuing an active policy to combat the problems we are facing in this regard. As far as part of what is happening on the coast is concerned, I would point out that last week we made proposals to introduce yard support. In the case of economic policy, the fishing industry is no different from the other industry. We have to pursue a policy that makes the crown price go down. The issue of interest rates and tax policy is so determined to create framework conditions for the fishing industry as for all other industries. We make a great deal of effort through charging policies and on the export side, so that we export to approx. 150-160 countries. Development is not just negative. The government has pursued a very active policy to remove the trade barriers that have been on salmon in recent years, and has succeeded in doing so. There are a number of activities and proposals in progress, not least in terms of the economic instruments, to which the Government will return during the spring. We focus on research to a significant extent to trigger the potential for value creation that is there. I am therefore optimistic on behalf of the marine sector and the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e471	The situation of the fishing industry is acute. Map shows that a number of fishing establishments throughout Finnmark and Troms are at risk of cessation or bankruptcy. It's okay enough for the government to answer any question about business strategy with interest rates, exchange rates and taxes, but that's not what I'm asking. What is now my question is what an active and targeted industrial policy strategy the Government has to address the acute problems that are now being seen in the Norwegian fishing industry. Then it's not just a matter of talking about the financial framework conditions, so I want to hear what kind of business strategy the government wants in the future. The yard support and research are good enough. But I don't think it's going to solve the acute problems you see in the fishing industry right here and now, and that's why I just have to repeat the question: is there any business strategy, and what does it have to do with the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e476	There is no doubt that an active industrial policy is being pursued by the Government. I mention and refer to what we discussed a little while ago in relation to the implementation of the fishing. It is clear that the implementation of fisheries is an important part of the framework conditions for industry. Now when I'm being criticized from different teams for regulating and ensuring that the industry in Finnmark and along the coast can have a production year round instead of taking up the entire quota in a few short winter months, I would say that what we're doing here is crucial to maintaining an industrial structure. Now that we are doing things in terms of structure, adapting capacity to both catch and industry, it is vital to maintain a viable fishing industry. I remember that the map that was probably now shown is primarily linked to larger fillet industries, and there are actually some industrial companies in, for example. Hammerfest and the Vesterål, who have made heavy investments on the technology side, making them viable.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e483	There will be two follow-up questions – first Bendiks H. Arnesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e486	I record the answers of the Council of State, but I don't think the coastal population can settle for such answers. The acute situation in the fishing industry is largely caused by dramatic changes in the framework conditions for the Norwegian export industry, as the Council of State rightly states. However, it may not be appropriate to use such a situation to carry out a comprehensive restructuring of this industry. This is contrary to all political objectives expressed both here in the house and other places, in relation to the industry and the coast of Norway. Then I would like to ask: what will the Council of State put in concrete, selective instruments to prevent the coastal, settlement and industry along the coast from being destroyed, and to help the fishing industry over this knee? We've done that before, and I'm asking you what kind of tools you want to put in.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e495	Firstly, it is the economic policy which is to bring down the dollar and which is to bring down the interest rate. Secondly, there is a significant market effort to open up markets through the WTO negotiations, through the enlargement process that is taking place, and I also referred to the successful policy pursued by the Government to remove the additional penal customs duty on salmon. One of the more comprehensive measures we put in place is to regulate fishing, which allows industry to have a production year round and thus deliver quality all year round to a market that asks for fish more than four months in winter. Secondly, there is no doubt that profitability is affected by the fact that we have overcapacity in both fleet and industry, and we need to take the burdens that are, and contribute here, especially since industry and fishermen themselves are asking for it and want to be involved in financing structural adjustment. Secondly, we pursue a policy based on the general framework conditions of business, on knowledge and competence, and there are a number of other measures that I would have liked to mention if the time had gone by.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e500	Åsa Elvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e503	I have to admit that I think it is quite well done by the Council of State to be able to be optimistic in the situation we have today. On the first page of the Fisheries Bulletin on 31 December, the title was ‘Dramatic downfall’. Yesterday, the leader of Norway's Fiskarlag, Reidar Nilsen, stood up, and across the front page of the Fiskerblad, it was said that "Reidar shouts crisis". I think that's what many people along the coast actually feel. We have problems at all levels of industry today: low first-hand prices, poor market access, lower demand, high dollar prices, etc. We see the consequences of this today, and I think it is well done by the Council of State to be optimistic in such a situation. The freshest figures in Norway are that we are on the way to making ourselves suppliers of raw materials in relation to the Norwegian fishing industry. The degree of processing goes down, we export an increasingly large amount of fish, but gets less and less for it. Then I wonder: Does the Council of State really think this is okay? If he thinks it's okay with the overcapacity, which he pointed to, shall only be torn away with a pen stroke and accidental bankruptcy along the coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e516	That's exactly what I'm trying to stress, that I'm trying to do something about the problem, and that we're taking some basic steps to get out of the problems that are there. But I would warn against drawing a crisis picture of the marine sector and the Norwegian fishing industry, because it is too one-sided. We have industrial companies that invest and go with positive numbers. We are committed to knowledge and technology that makes those who are the best – those who challenge the sharpest brains and the best hands – succeed. But we have problems in some areas. Now you try to present it as a problem that the insight of cod is record-breaking at the moment, and then you ask me to regulate it in a way that will allow us to pick up the cod in a few short months, and then we would lay the coast dead the rest of the year. So there has to be a little consistent argument also from those who are now just drawing crisis pictures. It's too one-sided, and it's necessary to do some grips, which I've explained here. I record that not least SV is against this. But what is their solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e523	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e527	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. A greater and greater part of Norwegian agricultural policy will be determined outside the Norwegian National Assembly in the coming years. We have Article 19 of the EEA III and the WTO negotiations, and we know that there will be greater market elements as time passes. We now see from the WTO negotiations that there is very little concrete happening in Norway to adapt to the world of reality. We're facing an agricultural settlement. Many people believe that this farming is anticipating and should not continue as has been the case in recent years. Do you need to have prices and target prices when you are going to be more marked by the market? There is also talk of this agricultural settlement going over two years, which means that many people will not have the necessary flexibility. Will this be taken into account in the agricultural settlement of the year, perhaps taking some sectors out of the agricultural agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e538	I have no problem sharing the perception that Hedstrom here expresses, that there are many conditions that put a heavy pressure on Norwegian agriculture at the moment. These are the external aspects that we have touched on earlier in this spontaneous debate on the WTO. We know that we will have increased imports through what we have negotiated in the EEA, and at the same time we obviously have a lot of pressure in Norway as well. As regards the fight for budgetary money, the fight against border trade, etc., which means that there are also limits to what we can achieve from domestic instruments to sustain an agricultural structure and an agricultural economy that is desirable. This means that the rationalisation of traditional volume productions, which has lasted for several years, continues – and not at less speed, it seems. So I think it's a very wrong reality perception to think that it's not going to happen here very big changes, and it's going to do it in the future. We will probably also see that when we come to the agricultural agreement negotiations, we will look at how many applications we have. on the funds from the agricultural agreement. But it's not a satisfactory answer for an agricultural minister just to manage the decline in the number of farmers in this country, even though those who remain then get more production and perhaps take care of all the land. We also need an alternative if we are to take care of Norwegian villages. That is why the Ministry of Agriculture is now working very hard to build an alternative strategy, not just to maintain volume production with fewer farmers to produce this volume, but to increase the number of farmers that will not be in volume production, to other production, whether it be in traditional agriculture or other agricultural activities on farms. This means that in a few days' time, among other things, will allow for milk production outside the quota system for those who will build a farm dairy and process themselves. We know that we had an example of that a few years ago, where, among other things, The representative Hedstrom made a strong commitment to this. It will be fully legal, and I believe many snuffs on that possibility. So we have alternative strategies that allow some to also bet new and untraditional in agriculture, and then I think we'll be able to get a sum that's good, less in volume production, more in alternative production.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e545	It is clear that we need to have a relatively rapid development, and more and more people now say that things have to happen before customs-based protection falls. What we can do before will enable more parts of Norwegian agriculture to survive. In the case of the placing on the market of agricultural property, concession rules apply, and also in the case of the acquisition-holding law, concession limits apply. We know that we have 4,000 bureaucrats who administer schemes under the agricultural agreement, and it costs agriculture. We have market regulation systems that cost, and we have channelling policies. There are a lot of things that you have to look at in a relatively short time to make the necessary changes, so that we get a robust agriculture in the future. Specialities are good and good, but we also have to have traditional production with us, bulk production. Does the Minister of Agriculture not think that in order to order our residence and have a serious agricultural policy, we must now take this into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e552	And we do. I imagine a three-pointed strategy in the future. The first strategy is to ensure more robust traditional volume production. It'll probably happen to fewer producers, as we've seen over many years. I have previously shown forecasts that if we keep the level of transfers unchanged in agriculture, but with a small increase in income, over a decade we will go from 60,000 to 40,000 holdings in traditional volume production. The second strategy is to avoid that most of those who can no longer be in traditional volume production will have a reinforced and targeted effort to produce good alternatives, both in traditional agriculture and food production and in other nutritional alternatives on farms. There's a lot of possibilities open up here. Bioenergy is an area that is obvious to many more after this winter. The third area is a more active policy for the many properties that are not commercial property, if you can say so. Today there are 180 000 agricultural properties and 60000 holdings. But there are many who want to live for the farms, if not the farms, and we should have a more active policy for it – for the good of the countryside too.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e563	There will be follow-up questions – Aud Gaundal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e566	With the exception of the Progress Party, I believe that all the political parties here in the Stortinget have the aim of saving as much as possible of today's housing pattern. Agriculture is an important part of it, and I think these parties are also interested in having a Norwegian food production. The Council of State tells the Nations that Norwegian farmers tend to say that the Minister of Agriculture is threatening them, but that, in fact, it is the Government and the Minister of Agriculture that are the most important tool. My question is: is it political will to distort part of the use of the instrument, so that we can maintain Norwegian agriculture and housing? And what about the small, marginal usage we have in the West and North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e575	There is no doubt that in the serious and demanding negotiations we are now facing internationally, it is important that Norwegian agriculture be united behind a government that is prepared to fight for the widest possible scope of action for national policies in these areas. And I think that's a broad understanding of that. I also feel that, on the part of Stortinget, we have common interests in providing a national space for action, so that is the basis for discussing agricultural policy in spontaneous hours in five and ten years' time. But it is also obvious that there is a structural development in traditional volume production, which means that, especially in the case of marginal uses in the West and in North Norway, we need to make a stronger effort to produce good alternatives. And one shouldn't blow that this is marginal or niche production, because in sum this can be very important. In any case, it is crucial for the farmers to see their possibilities as self-employed even where the production of meat and milk is no longer possible. A lot of people do it. Many apply for experiences, where there is a great willingness to pay, and provide care for the municipality, but also engage in traditional business in areas other than milk and meat. This is what we now want to stimulate – with enhanced efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e580	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e585	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been removed. Question 3, from the representative of Mr Rudihagen to the Minister for Finance, will be answered by the Minister for Justice who is directing him. Question 7, from the representative of Åslaug Haga to the Minister for Health, will be raised by the representative of Karin Galaaen. Question 15, from the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa to the Minister for Social Affairs, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 16, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Health, this question will be moved and answered in response to question 9, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 17, from the representative Frode Hervik to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative May Britt Vihovde. Question 19, from the representative of Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken to the Minister for Transport, will be taken up by the representative of Bjørn Lothe. Question 20, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister of Defence, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Questions 21, 22 and 23, from the representatives of Ulf Erik Knudsen, Øyvind Korsberg and Øyvind Waksdal, respectively, to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e615	I will ask the Prime Minister the following questions: ‘All over the country we are told that businesses have to be shut down, with the result that hundreds of people lose their jobs. More and Romesdal have been hit hard. Examples include Glamox and Moxy Trucks, which together represent hundreds of jobs. This means the decline of Norwegian industry. What does the Government do to prevent this serious development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e624	The government shares the concern of the representative, Bekkemel Orheim, for the development of the Norwegian industry in general and in More and Romesdal in particular. The fight against increased unemployment is a major concern of the Cooperation Government. This is why we are pursuing an active industrial policy, which is designed to make it easier for businesses both to deal with the difficult situation and to lay the foundations for future jobs. Norway has, as you know, an extrovert economy. Internationally, we see a severe recession. In Europe's largest economy, in Germany, industrial production fell by 2.6 pst. in December. Norwegian business is also affected by this. Competitive enterprises are also facing a number of peculiar challenges. High prices alone have contributed to a loss of cost competitiveness towards the rest of the world by close to 20 pst. in the last two years. In addition, over a number of years Norway has seen a marked increase in wages and salaries of our trading partners. When businesses shut down and people lose jobs, it is serious for all those affected. The government therefore pursues an active policy to secure the jobs we have and to create new ones. The most important thing we can do to combat unemployment is to improve the framework conditions for business and improve the ability of businesses to cope with the difficult situation. In order to contribute to lower interest rates and after each lower exchange rate, the Government presented a tight proposal to the government budget. It's given results. Since the budget was presented in October, Norway’s Bank has reduced interest rates twice in total by one percentage point. In the last few weeks, we have also seen that the value of Norwegian kroner has fallen slightly towards the euro. In order to ensure competitiveness, the Government, together with the social partners, has agreed on the basis of income policy cooperation which requires settlement in 2003 to be based on the competitive part of business. It is also agreed that the parties will work to increase pay growth in Norway in line with the development of our trading partners. A moderate settlement for spring is an important contribution to getting the level of interest further down and thus also the rate of interest. It is important to facilitate business innovation in order to create new jobs. As part of this, the Government has reinforced the commitment to research and development through the tax credit for corporate research and development expenditure. The scheme has proved to be a major success, and has been extended from this year to all enterprises. In addition, the capital of the Research Fund has been increased by DKK 3 billion and the industrial research through the Research Council has been strengthened by 15 pst. There is also a need to improve food policy instruments. During the spring session, the Government will submit proposals on the device and organisation of the industrial tool. The objective is to increase innovation. The Government has also decided to introduce yard support from 15 March and a year in the future for container ships and product and chemical tankers. For the Cooperative Government, therefore, the fight against unemployment is a major issue. We are pursuing an active industrial policy as part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e647	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his answer. The situation in our home country, Mr Moor and Mr Romsdal, is extremely difficult. It's also a picture of what our entire industry is up in. This is about the everyday lives of ordinary people, the opportunity to have a wage to live off and to be able to meet their obligations. I want to say that, after hearing State Council Victor D. Norman here today, I think this is about asking the Prime Minister one concrete question: is this Government interested in using the state actively in relation to business policy? What many of his male expert councils say is that we can't waste money in public business. But we have good experience of the fact that, in some extreme situations, the state must actively intervene. [[President clubs]] Does the Prime Minister, as his Minister for Industry, mean that the traditional industrial workplace has expired and that we are now going to sit and watch our hands and wait for changes to take place?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e658	I do not believe that the Minister of Labour and Administration believes that the traditional industrial workplace has expired. It is government policy to maintain an industrial environment in Norway. Of course, we also want to use the state actively. These include: That is why we will now make a proposal for a change to the instrument, which is, to a large extent, state-owned, in order to improve the efficiency of the use of state resources to preserve jobs and to create new ones. But the fact remains that one has said in terms of both Moxy Trucks, Glamox and other companies that have problems is that we have a high cost level. There are the decisive factors in interest rates, exchange rates and wage developments. Therefore, a policy must be pursued that can bring these factors more into line with those of our competitors. And with the policy the Labour Party now seems to turn on, I think, unfortunately, that it may seem quite the opposite – unfortunate – for Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e667	I want to say that since 1997, the Prime Minister is the person in Norway who has had the most power to do something about the employment situation. And there are limits to how many times Bondevik and his government can rely on what the Workers' Party has done. I would also ask the Prime Minister to pay some attention to it! So, in concrete terms, it's very commendable what happened to the yard support. But in our county, it's all about the fact that there's only one municipality that can make use of this yard support. When you look at the total effort of the Government, it's, if I don't remember completely wrong, 700 million. kr i cut down on various measures for rural and industrial development. I have spoken in our locality of a great industrial policy effort, where all the actors and all the parties could sit down together, but have seen little response to it. Now I would like to have a clear answer to this: Could the Prime Minister be interested in entering into a much closer cooperation to obtain a package of measures for employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e676	I am aware that I have been Prime Minister for relatively many of the last five-six years. I have also registered with satisfaction that now that I have had the management of the Cooperative Government, interest has gone down. When Karita Bekkelem Orheim was a member of a government, it went only one way: upwards. It would be quite devastating for Norwegian business if we were to embark on a policy that would once again lead to such a development as it was in her Council of State in terms of the level of interest rates. Therefore, the opposition in Stortinget must also be cautious about raising a number of spending proposals – as we now see the Workers' Party doing increasingly – which can counteract the policy that is now going to get interest and the price of the crown downwards. The representative, Mr Bekkelem Orheim, must be able to hear that. It's not a discharge, but it's also a reminder to those who are in opposition, that you have to act in such a way that it doesn't work against what we now want, namely to combat unemployment. We're going to follow this development closely. Of course, we will also reserve the possibility of returning to further action if the situation so warrants, for example. in the context of the revised national budget, and we would like to cooperate with the Labour Party and others on such measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e685	To a manifest misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e690	No, it doesn't help. Now we've gone so many rounds here with the same starting point that I can't believe there should be any obvious misunderstanding either with the Prime Minister or with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e697	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e700	I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries: ‘There is a great and increasing pressure on the fishing resources of international waters. The coastal party has previously called for an active involvement in an extension of the economic zone. What is the situation with regard to this work in the international forums where this is the case, and will the Minister for Foreign Affairs increase his efforts to accept the need for such an extension in order to secure the seal of both the Mutthavet and the Smutthole, in order to ensure the sustainable management of natural resources in these sea areas?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e709	The government shares the representative’s concern about the global management of marine resources. More committed international cooperation in this field is of great importance to Norway, not least because we are a major act in the field of fisheries policy. That is why the matter is also of high priority in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and will be addressed in particular. be addressed at the forthcoming meeting of the Fisheries Committee of the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, FAO, which will take place in Rome next week. Let me also add that there is a very good dialogue on these issues between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Fisheries. Of course it is. However, according to the United Nations Commission on the Law of the Sea, the government has no international jurisdiction to extend the Norwegian economic zone beyond 200 nautical miles. There are also no international processes where the issue of extending economic zones beyond 200 nautical miles is a topical issue. On the other hand, the government is active in regulating fishing on the open sea and in managing migratory fish stocks, which also includes the management of fish stocks in the Smutthole and the Smutthavet. It's a work that's mainly directed by the United Nations. The entry into force in December 2001 of the UN Agreement on High Seas Fisheries provides a framework of international law for the management of certain high seas migratory populations. It is Norwegian view that the agreement strengthens our interests in fisheries management, in particular through the requirement of compatibility between the management of fish resources in the open sea and in neighbouring national waters. From the Norwegian side, it is actively working to strengthen the distribution of the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e720	I'm not satisfied with the activity, and I'm not satisfied with the answer. The coastal party has worked a long time to expand our seas. When the Minister of Fisheries says we're a major act, that's right. We are a great force with Russia, Iceland, the Faeroe Islands and Greenland. I am pleased that this has been reflected in our new EEA negotiations. When the council says we're going to address this issue in the FAO, I hope there's a line running from the government's side where we're expanding our limit to 250 nautical miles, because in that way we're going to close both the Mutthaft and the Dirthole. It is in international forums that this can be done, and I assume that the Minister for Fisheries and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are in close contact. Why is that not followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e731	I have tried to explain that this work is being followed up in a very active and clear way by the Government. As I said, we are going to discuss this in Rome next week in the FAO meeting. I am surprised that the Coastal Party is not satisfied with the answer, because it must mean that the Coastal Party now recommends that we go out on our own and claim to extend the 200-mile zone. As a great fishing nation, we are more than any other dependent on international agreements and cooperation, so that no nation can accommodate itself beyond what international law gives rise to. I have to understand that the recommendation of the Coastal Party means acting in a way that is contrary to international law, even though I also record that the representative Bastesen recommends in the final comment the same thing as I say: we are going to look for solutions in the context of international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e738	It's true that we have to look for solutions in international forums, but I'm so old that I was there when Iceland had the cod war against England, and I know that the border was extended from 50 nautical miles to 200 nautical miles. By actively going out into international forums, we can help extend the borders to 250 nautical miles. The Minister of Fisheries knows very well that the Coastal Party is for us to expand the borders. I am fully aware that both the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs agree with the Coastal Party, but we are doing too little.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e745	There is no doubt that the Government is doing what is possible to get Norwegian views about having responsible management of fishing resources both in international waters and in national waters, and that we, on the Norwegian side, do not have a policy of self-determination in international waters.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e758	This question, from the representative of Torstein Rudihagen to the Minister of Finance, will be answered by the Minister of Justice who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e761	I have the following questions: ‘An asylum receipt burns down in Gausdal, and according to the newspaper Gudbrandsdølen Dagningen, the owner states that no Norwegian insurance company would insure the building due to it. the mode of operation. According to the same newspaper, another landlord to an asylum reception at Lillehammer also has the same problem. The focus will be on the authorities, which set up asylum and refugee recipients while accepting that insurance companies refuse to insure construction. Are the companies acting in line with the law, and are there any need for legislative changes here?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e770	I have no reason to comment on the issues to which the representative refers. Insurance corporations do not currently have a general obligation to conclude insurance contracts. The body of law which prepared the 1989 Insurance Contracts Act considered whether it should propose a general rule on the right to insurance or, in other words, an obligation for companies to conclude an insurance contract. However, the committee found no reason to propose it, and so the law has no such rule. Otherwise, it is in an area where insurance is compulsory, as under the Car Liability Act. On the basis of Section 2 of the 1993 Price Action Act, the Competition Authority may also take action against the refusal to conclude an insurance contract which is unfair for reasons of competition. It is not clear whether, in some cases, an additional obligation to conclude an insurance contract can be imposed on an unlawful basis. The question of an obligation to conclude an insurance contract has subsequently been assessed in a public inquiry, NOU 2000:23, for the purposes of personal insurance and health information. The majority of this sample proposes a rule on the obligation to justify a refusal to provide insurance for persons and that the company is obliged to offer insurance if the refusal is based on health information that the insurance company cannot require. This investigation is now under follow-up in the Ministry of Justice. However, the proposal would have no direct effect on non-life insurance, to which the representative's questions relate. As I see it now, this case does not alone provide sufficient reason to raise questions about introducing a general rule on the obligation of insurance companies to offer a non-life insurance contract. In any case, what conditions — including the insurance premium — that the company may impose for the conclusion of an insurance contract will depend on the damage risk involved. Of course, the current insurance needs should be addressed before an asylum or refugee recipient is established. This is primarily a relationship between the owner of the buildings and the insurance company. If the company refuses to offer insurance, it may be because they consider the risk of damage to be too high. The natural fact is that the owner takes measures to reduce the risk of injury or refrains from offering tenders to immigration authorities to use the buildings as asylum or refugee reception facilities. It is, however, a small wanted situation that insurance companies refuse to insure asylum recipients, and I would therefore like to raise the question with the Financial Industry’s Main Organisation. If one does not find a satisfactory solution, I am not a stranger to consider the question of changing the law later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e783	Thank you for that. The last signal that the Council of State gives, I thought it was good. Otherwise, the answer shows that it is relevant to go in and look at the whole law here, as the company has no obligation to insure, and that those who want to insure have no right to be insured. There are several things in these matters that are a bit striking. First of all, these buildings, which until they became asylum recipients, were insured without any problems. This applies to a hotel in Lillehammer, and the owner said to the newspaper that after the hotel became an asylum reception, no Norwegian insurance company was willing to sign insurance. The Council of State was concerned that insurance companies must, of course, impose fire safety and other measures. The owner is committed to meeting such demands, while also committing to paying a higher premium, if it is such that one considers that the risk is high, as is the case with young car owners who have to pay higher premiums, etc. What is important is simply to have contact with the Financial Industry’s Main Organisation to get them into this problem, because it is not possible to live with building as a home for asylum recipients, it is not possible to get an insurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e794	In my first answer, I explained the general legal and contractual situation. It is also useful with the information currently provided by the representative in his additional comment. I stand by what I have said, that I want to take what is involved in the representative's question, up with the Financial Industry's Chief Organisation, and I want to follow the matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e801	From the newspaper one also sees that one has been in contact with the UDI, which actually has the same reaction that the insurance companies will not take out the necessary insurance. I therefore hope that the Council of State can follow this up with all those who have an impact on this matter, and in the next round consider any change in the law if nothing else leads.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e806	In my first answer I said that if one does not find a satisfactory solution, I am not a stranger to take the question of a change of laws up to the assessment later on. That's a conclusion I'm still holding on to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e814	This question is from the representative Rune J. Skjellaaen of the Minister of Culture and the Church, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland. Since the Council of State is also Minister of Sports, the President will state that it was tripled in Norwegian today's three-mile win.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e817	It was a joyous message to get! So over to the question: ‘Church councils in Bergen propose, as one of several joint councils, to introduce new excesses in church acts such as weddings and funerals. The background in Bergen is the same as for other church councils, a difficult church economy. What will the Council of State do to prevent such a negative development in our people's church?'
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e828	With the introduction that the president had, it's tempting to take credit for the tripled saying. I'm not going to do that, but I'm very happy that it went the way it went. First, I want to say that I am pleased with the debate that is now taking place on the local church economy, and with the commitment to the people's church that is being expressed here. But I'm not happy with what's behind this commitment. I am very concerned about the development of the local church economy as it has been expressed in recent times, with linked churches and decisions on the introduction of payment by church acts such as marriage and burial. This has several reasons, including: high pension insurance and electricity prices in an already tight budget. As Minister of the Church, of course, I take this very seriously, and I will henceforth continue to work to find measures and solutions to improve the Church's economy. Church law opens the way for the Church Council to demand payment for the use of the Church for church acts that are not performed in connection with the services of gods. However, payment decisions require the approval of the Council of Bishops. In the setting of the 1996 Church Law, the plurality of the Church, Education and Research Committee pointed out that members of the church who are resident in the parish should not pay for services such as burial, marriage and baptism. I want to make it clear that I do not have the sense that the Church Council in Bergen has now decided to introduce payment for the use of the churches in marriage and burial. In my opinion, the Council of Bishops has many good reasons to say no to such payment, mainly because it is the municipalities that are responsible for and have the obligation to cover expenditure on such services. The operation and maintenance of churches and church gardens has been a task of the community since ancient times. In my view, the introduction of payments for weddings and tombs could undermine the local authorities' obligation under the law to allow funds to the church services. Introducing payment for the use of your own parish church is rocking at the very foundation of an open church. It's a treason against church life in general and especially against those who can afford it badly. Church employers’ organisations have collected information from the church councils that shows that the situation is rather different around the Council. The drawing is important to us when we are to strengthen the Church's economy. The measures we have taken, if any, must be accurate in relation to the local conditions. In the long term, I will work to strengthen the Church's economy through the ordinary budgets. I would also like to show that the question of future funding of the church's activities will be an important theme for the selection, which will determine the relationship between the state and the church.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e845	I thank the Minister of the Church for the answer and am pleased that she clearly says that the peculiarities of weddings and funerals are a udder, although she did not exactly use that word. In 2003, there are 125 General Councils that have been reduced in crowns and ears compared to 2002, which were also a difficult year. This was found at the conference to which the minister refers, which the Church Employers' Organisation held on Monday. State Secretary Berit Øksnes Gjerløw says in a comment in Here & Now the same day that we want the Church to have better framework conditions than this. But it can’t be as a surprise to the minister of the church that the church economy becomes very difficult when the municipalities are struggling in so many areas, and 75 pst. the funds for the church are allocated through the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e856	There have been many disturbing messages, as I also said in my answer. I am working on measures to try to remedy this in the short term. In the long term, we might have to think about something different. I have no answer to how much we can find from new funds today, but at least I think that the work that the Church's employers' organisation has done to identify the problems is a good foundation for us to continue working on the priorities. What is also a question is how to channel new funds. For me, it's important to find a way to do it that shows that we're absolutely certain, and that they go to the Joint Council's work. I have a budget line of 100 million. kr to go to the General Council. I see that if we're going to find solutions that are absolutely certain, we're going to somehow have to take advantage of this approach when it comes to solving some of the short-term problems common to the Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e863	We are dealing with a matter of baptismal training in the Church these days. It's also about escalating the number of teaching positions in the church. So today, we experience that positions created by the churches over the years actually disappear because the municipalities and the councils cannot afford to pay for these posts. When they're going to light up again, they're actually not going to light up, because you don't have the money for propensity. I wish the Council of State could comment on some of this. So one builds up the services of the church, while the council promotes a report of baptismal training that involves building up church services and church teaching. But there are catechisms and point of view around our country that are not being proclaimed today because the councils do not have the means to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e870	I'm very aware of that. As I said initially, I am very pleased with that commitment, as opposed to what I experienced at the first budget I laid out. There were, among other things: The crosshairs in a multiple number here on the Storing to cut the loops of the General Council. And these funds should actually go to a part of these positions and to keep up the activity. Now I see that there are other thoughts both at the representative of the Kschlalaa and at representatives of other parties here in the Stortinget, that we need more here in fact. I am pleased with the basis on which I have received an inquiry into the Church's employer's organisation. I'll come back to Stortinget when it comes to this, and I hope we can find some extra resources for the council. I have no sum to bring today, nor any promise, except that I have a very high pressure on this, but I hope that we will be able to come back with something more concrete later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e880	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice a question: ‘For a child, being subjected to sexual assault is a cruel experience. Child pornography is evidence of sexual abuse against children, and many are subjected to prolonged and repeated abuses. In many cases, they are filmed and distributed over the Internet. There's reason to believe that the scenes shown in NRK Focus February 4th this year only give an indication of what adults are exposing children to. What initiatives will the Council of State take to combat child pornography and child abuse?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e889	Combating sexual abuse, including child pornography, is – and should be – a priority area for police. In my opinion, the report in Focus on 4 February showed that. simply filmed assaults against defenceless children. We were witnesses of gross moral delinquency to the very weakest of us. In addition to these abominable acts, we experience that the abuses are produced, distributed, copied and downloaded in the form of images from the Internet, and make child abuse available to an almost unlimited circle of people around the world in a very short time. I have proposed that the criminal framework for organised possession of child pornography be increased from two to four years, and I would like to include the issue of penalties in this area in the preparation of a new criminal law. To combat sexual abuse of children more effectively, it is necessary to have competence in both morality and ICT crime. Kripos, a police assistance body, has developed a good top expertise in the detection and investigation of sexual abuse against children. In the last decade, training courses on various aspects of the investigation and prosecution of sexual offences have been regularly conducted at the Police College. Furthermore, ICT crime courses are organised, not least on evidence protection in child pornography. The Ökokrim Data Crime Centre of the police has technical competence for the investigation of images on the Internet and analytical tools for use in electronic seizures. The police data crimping centre is now developing a new data service with regard to data seizures of this type of crime. The service is developed in close cooperation with Kripos. It is also relevant to acquire specific computer programs to detect the spread of child pornography across the Internet. I refer here to the feature of the TV news last night. In the case of Kripos, reception is also established for the handling of tips on child pornography. Tips are received by phone and e-mail. Kripos processes the tips and sends information to the right police district, which follows up the tips. If the tips relate to websites in other countries, the information is sent to the police in the respective countries. Businesses also need to take greater responsibility for combating the distribution of child pornography. This applies in particular to the different network providers that transmit digital images over the Internet and payment card companies that charge for the purchase of images over the network. I will shortly convene these two industries to a meeting with the Minister for Transport to discuss what business can do, for example. by filtering out unwanted services.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e908	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that the Council of State and the Government are making such a significant commitment to these issues, and that they are also promoting concrete measures to combat child pornography. It is now absolutely necessary to keep this high on the agenda and to show the strength and power of action to combat these gross and vile abuses. With the Internet, on which the Council of State was involved, the possibility of the spread and availability of child pornography has increased enormously. To stop this child abuse, it is important to work across borders. The network companies have a significant ethical responsibility to prevent the network from being used to disseminate films and images of child abuse. If the transmission system operators do not take this responsibility themselves and voluntarily find solutions to prevent such proliferation, what would the Government be able to do through, for example. the law to force the network companies to put an end to this unacceptable business?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e915	A network company can already be penalised for participation in the spread of child pornography under Section 204 of the Criminal Act. Such a criminal case now stands for Borgarting's law. I am otherwise aware that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade is working on a bill as a follow-up to an EU directive on the responsibility of the network companies for the provision of information that can be punishable. Here it is appropriate to impose on companies an immediate and criminal obligation to remove criminal material on the web, which is particularly relevant in relation to the provision of network services that spread child pornography. I am also aware that the Minister for Transport is working on a proposal for a new law on telecommunications, where it may be appropriate to impose on telecommunications companies a responsibility that can better ensure police proof of child pornography issues. The Government has otherwise set up a data-criminal choice to assess the necessary legislative changes to enable Norway to ratify the Cyber Crime Convention of the Council of Europe. Several countries outside Europe have also signed the Convention. This Convention is the main international tool in international police cooperation to combat child pornography. These include: The establishment of so-called 24 7 service, in which all countries joining the Convention shall have a daily watch of seven days a week, so that one can immediately trace the identity of the consignor of the Internet sending child pornography in another country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e924	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm really glad that it's working on a broad front here, and that there's a job across departments as well. For this is not something that belongs to just one department, there are several departments that need to enter the picture to have a significant pressure on this particular work. I hope that the Storting will be presented later with a case on these questions. But there's a group that it seems so far that there's little we can do with, and that's who I call the binoculars -- those who are inside and tits of pure curiosity, and who are thereby involved and actually contribute to the assault. They contribute to the maintenance and further development of these activities. It's not so good to get hold of these, but I think that by keeping this case high on the agenda, and that everyone is talking about it, maybe can make it as unsafe for them as possible. I could imagine what the Council of State has done with thoughts around the binoculars.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e931	On the cybernetic steppe, lawlessness can spread unless you have cybernetic tools. That's a comment. But the steppe is great, and it will never be a sheriff to catch anyone acting in the cybernetic landscape. Therefore, it is very important that in the social landscape – here we now stand in the main hall, and in any other social landscape – it is a direct talk about this, and that a social pressure is created that causes you to become illiterate if you do not act sensibly. It's my claim, which I've taken up in a number of contexts in this room, that Norway is still such a transparent society that it's possible to create a rather uncomfortable pressure in relation to individuals or groups who believe that this is a particularly suitable leisure activity, or, for that matter, a small distraction at work. We simply have to mobilize everything we stand for in contact with adults. That's what we can do. Citizens are citizens, and I'm still so old-fashioned inside my head that I think it's possible to talk about these things, so that this pressure is created. Let's describe it as a mobilization of human engagement. Of course, it does not replace what the police can and should do, but the police always depend on citizens and witnesses being able to stand up. Then it'll be a dear witness's duty to tell you about this, and here we can all contribute. I intend to do mine.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e939	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘Like many other hospitals, hospitals in the North Trøndelag have to collect a significant operational imbalance in their budget for the current year. In addition to the reduction in other revenues, Health Nord-Trøndelag has received a real cut in the State framework of more than 40 million. kr. What does the Council of State think will be the effect of reducing state resources for hospital operations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e948	I want to start by taking the opportunity to comment on the general situation, which I perceive is really the issue. There is reason to conclude once again that state transfers to hospital operations are not reduced. They're opposite session. For the treatment of St.prp. No In 2001, transfers to regional health enterprises increased by 800 million in real terms. to cover the imbalance that arose in the counties between the level of expenditure and income. The figures for 2001 in the counties showed that this imbalance had increased significantly beyond the assumptions underlying the 2002 budget. As a result, the Stortinge gave a further 1.3 billion kroner in the treatment of St.prp. No 59 for 2001-2002 to cover the imbalance that emerged from hospital accounts in 2001. This level of transfers has continued in 2003, while health care establishments have been granted a further year in order to achieve an operational balance sheet. This extra year to balance also applies to Nord-Trøndelag. For the treatment of St.prp. No 59 the majority in this Chamber made it clear that the economic imbalance cannot be resolved by additional appropriations alone. It was therefore decided that significant efficiency and cost-reduction measures should be implemented in health businesses, at least in the same size as the additional appropriations. In St. prp. No 59 The Government proposed that health businesses be brought into an operational balance over the years 2002 and 2003. After the landfill of St.prp. No 59 worsened the economic situation, mainly because wage-fixing was more expensive than anticipated. With this in mind, health enterprises have been given more time through the 2003 government budget to achieve an operational balance, i.e. that the balance sheet is to be achieved by 2004 at the latest. By providing healthcare providers with an additional year to balance their financial situation, businesses can avoid being forced to cut down on the overall supply to patients, so that the conditions for maintaining the overall patient supply can be maintained. I am aware that the mission put on health businesses will be a major challenge. At the same time, we know that there is a great potential for improving the efficiency of operation in Norwegian hospitals. The hospital reform has given us a whole new opportunity to realise this potential, and it must be used. My experience is that there are now a number of good and creative processes both at regional level and in individual healthcare companies, which not only reduce costs but also involve more effective and good patient treatment. This is also the case with the ongoing processes in Health Mid-Norway. As I've already explained, there's been extra time, if necessary out in 2004, to achieve an operational balance. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of creating predictability in relation to the framework conditions put at the disposal of the State budget. I attach great importance to the fact that there is now no uncertainty about the governance that has been provided to regional health businesses and that these are now implementing to individual health businesses. There is a strong consensus that there is considerable scope for improving the efficiency of specialist healthcare, which will benefit patients in the long term in terms of both increased treatment capacity and reduced waiting lists.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e965	The Minister of Health is quite right that what matters to me is the more general situation of the hospital in the country, and that the situation of the hospitals in the North Trøndelag in itself only illustrates, for example, the great and difficult challenge that some of the hospitals will face. I am aware that there have been concessions in relation to a year's extra effort to succeed in terms of the operational deficit, but at the same time it is clear that there may be different price assumptions from the state and hospitals about what is realistic in terms of price and wage developments in the future, which also reflect what is realism in budgeting. The Minister for Health acknowledges that there are major challenges related to the ability to achieve an operational balance sheet, as well as the relationship to cost efficiency. It is well possible that there is still much to be saved in the Norwegian health service. But the question is, is it possible to carry out the kind of efficiency and cost reduction that hospitals are now facing, without jeopardising the offer to people most and also the proximity of hospital services?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e972	I believe that the scheme adopted by the Stortinget, which is my duty to implement to the regional health companies, is a realistic approach. It is such that after the acquisition of the hospitals from the county municipality per person. 1 January 2002 will have the 2002, 2003 and 2004 operational years on such a conversion process if necessary, and I believe that this will take account of the fact that the transitions can take place over such a period that it is possible to take the necessary account of the fact that this will not affect the overall patient supply. It is my clear premise, and it is also my mission, both to the owner and to the supervision side of the health administration, that they should follow it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e977	The situation we're in in several hospitals may illustrate that it wasn't necessarily the organisation of ownership that was the problem in the hospital system, but that the challenges the hospitals face are far more complicated and perhaps extensive than that. It is possible that the Minister of Health, with his party background, will agree with me on that. But it is clear that what we are facing now is how they will deal with the challenge in the years to come with the ownership that is and the resources that are. What worries me is that the desire for specialisation of functions and cost savings in relation to the specialisation of functions can be at the expense of the proximity of the offer, which is particularly important in relation to emergency medical functions, and also functions such as: maternity wards. Does the Minister of Health see the same problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e982	Let me say with pleasure what I perceive lies in Marit Arnstad's supplementary questions, that the main perspective now must be to do the job on the basis of the reform adopted by the Stortinge, regardless of whether there were parties that disagreed with it when it was adopted. Then, in my opinion, it is important to focus on what is actually going well. Waiting times, the problem of Corridor Asians and the length of waiting lists have gone in the right direction after the state took over. But it's quite obvious that who owns is one thing, the way you own it, is a completely different thing, and the state's ambition is to exploit the potential of not having to take into account state boundaries in the same way as before, that you have a unified and unified leadership, that you have an opportunity to implement national health policies in a more comprehensive way. The potential of the reform needs to be explored, and it needs to be taken into account where the overall health policy objectives are established, where it is important to ensure sufficient quality of the services provided to patients and how close is also an important value in the Norwegian healthcare system, but not proximity at all costs if the quality and safety of patients are compromised.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e991	This question, from Åslaug Haga to the Minister of Health, will be raised by the representative Karin Galaaen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e994	‘Health enterprises suffer from poor economic performance and the requirements for efficiency improvement are high. As a mantra, it has been said that efficiency should not go beyond patients. In practice, increased efficiency has meant increased centralisation. This is particularly problematic in relation to emergency preparedness and maternity services. What does the Council of State do to ensure that patients in need of immediate assistance receive the services they need?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1001	I have overall responsibility for providing patients, irrespective of their place of residence and economic and social situation, with access to important health services. It is also an important point that responsibility must be taken into account within the framework that the Stortinget draws up. In this respect, it is the Storing which, through its budgetary procedure, provides the framework for the resources available to businesses, and therefore also requires the efficiency to be improved. It would weaken the legitimacy of both the political governance system and of businesses if conversion measures, anchored in overall policy decisions, were almost interpreted as activities undertaken by technocrats and exempted from political governance. For me, it is central to making more efficient that public money should be used better and thus reach more. I am aware, of course, that there are limits to what can be achieved through efficiency and migration measures before harming the services of patients. Therefore, from the beginning of the government’s accession in October 2001, it has been important to make realistic assessments of the economic situation of enterprises so that patient treatment can be maintained at an appropriate high level. As I recently pointed out in the response to the representative Arnstad, the government medicine has been both more time and more money to remove the significant financial imbalances of businesses. There is therefore no pressure on businesses to implement measures to balance in 2003, as I was in my reply to the Arnstad representative. In the case of emergency preparedness and food supply measures, they are not implemented in any political vacuum. The size has, through the treatment of the emergency message, drawn up a number of guidelines on the basis of which actions are to be implemented. In the management document to regional health companies, I have instructed them to carry out reviews of the emergency medical chain, precisely focusing on ensuring a professionally sound emergency medical service provision for the population. This implies that needs have to be met based on the residence of the audience and that there is no open-ended centralisation that weakens this offer. In the case of maternity care, the competence of the new National Council for maternity care is required. In addition, in the context of the revised national budget, the Stortinget has asked for a review of newborn care, and I will of course follow that up. From this point of view, it is good that regional health businesses use professional groups to analyse how current needs can be met and that the reports provide a basis for subsequent broad consultation rounds. In these analyses, for example: useful to assess the relationship between quality and proximity and to be aware of the extent to which a certain ‘critical mass’ is necessary to ensure the necessary quality. But I'm adding that the focus on this approach angle doesn't have to lead to uncritical attitudes that things should be big as a goal in themselves. For me, it is very central that the Health Business Act provides a control and decision-making competence for the Ministry in essential matters, precisely to ensure that the political premises for health development are respected. I also stress the importance of the supervisory authorities to assess the compliance of new arrangements for medical care with the requirements of medical care.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1018	I thank you for your answer and am pleased that the Council of State is taking this seriously. But one sees that the financial framework is out of proportion to the wage increase that has taken place and the problems to be solved. In all health businesses around the country, there are now major concerns about the efficiency improvement being made. It's about people's security in everyday life. Does the Council have an overview of emergency preparedness around the country? And does he see the consequences of the efficiency measures being implemented, or does it become?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1025	I want to strongly refute an indication from the asker's side that things are going to be like they are. It is the task of regional undertakings to review the service provision in such a way that it is best organised according to the responsibilities they have and on the basis of the resources provided by the Storting. There will be a thorough investigation, a thorough consultation and a thorough evaluation of the material presented in the consultation before health professionals decide on any changes in the service provision. And if there are significant and fundamental changes, they will be dealt with by the owner at the corporate meeting, as the Health Business Act requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1030	I thank you again for the answer. The effectiveness of these interventions often affects small hospitals and food departments around them, although one sees that the overview and effectiveness are often better at smaller units. What kind of attitude does the Council of State have to the small units, and does he see that these are important for people's security?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1037	The proximity to a good health service is important for people’s safety. But it's not that proximity to anything is the same as security for patients. Now I am going to decide on the changes of a substantial or fundamental nature that may arise as a result of the processes that are now being carried out by regional health companies, so I am going to be very careful to decide on them while the hearings and discussions are going on. But I want to say one thing, and that is that it doesn't have to be that it's a goal in itself to preserve any offer, as it has been before, regardless of technological developments, regardless of access to health professionals and regardless of whether those who exercise these health services actually get continuous training in doing so. You don't get that if you do it very rarely, and then it's not safe for the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1048	I would like to ask the Minister of Health a question: ‘The Council of State responds to Mr Ballo’s intervention on 9 January that it is a prerequisite and a requirement for regional and local health establishments to carry out their activities in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the Stortinget. Despite an agreed escalation plan for psychiatry, the psychiatry in Eastfold is subject to a saving of 20 million. kr, which will mean that district psychiatric centres must close on weekends, with the adverse effects it has on users. Is this in line with the guidelines adopted by the Council?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1057	The Ministry’s governance premises for health businesses and the conditions attached to the mental health effort are clear and clear. The supply of mental health protection shall be strengthened in its entirety, and funds administered as part of the plan shall be used for the purpose for which they have been granted. The governance documents of regional health enterprises for 2003 clarify the allocation of mental health: ‘... the allocation shall enable the specialist health service to implement the planned strengthening of mental health protection. The conditions for the grant are that the level of activity must be continued in order to ensure that the offer in 2003 is at least at the same level as in 2002 and is supplemented in addition with the measures resulting from funds from the escalation plan.» That's the message I've given to regional health companies. The starting point is that mental health protection should be able to cost its own expenditure, inter alia. for remuneration and pensions. However, I would like to make it clear that this does not mean that regional health companies can impose additional obligations on the psychiatrist to balance the total budget deficit of the enterprise. The representative here refers to the psychiatry in Eastfold, which is required to save 20 million. kr in the middle of an escalating plan. I have also heard such claims linked to other local health establishments in Health East. I have asked Health East for a detailed explanation of how the assumptions for the use of the earmarked grants have been understood and how this has been followed up. The Health East Feedback will be carefully assessed by the Ministry of Health. I would like to make it clear that the strengthening of mental health protection will take place as decided by the Stortinget, but I would also like to ask for understanding that it is necessary for the Ministry of Health to obtain sufficient evidence to assess such issues. With regard to the transition from 7 to 5 days post, Health East has explained to the Ministry that as part of the escalation plan, two new district psychiatric centres were completed in Eastfold in 2002 – DPS for Inner Eastfold and DPS Moss. After this, there are a total of five district psychiatric centers in Eastfold. Each District Psychiatric Centre will have 12 places organised as a 5-day facility. So it's going to be about. half of the daily seats at DPS level organised as 5-day records, while the rest of the seats remain regular 7-day records. Some patients in daily distributions at the DPS level are currently receiving weekend leave. Health East considers this to be a good treatment for the patients concerned, including: in order to maintain closeness and contact with one’s own home during the course of treatment, as this requires facilitating the transition from an institution to an owner-occupied dwelling when the patient is ready for printing. Whether this is professionally acceptable and in line with the escalation plan, I would like to ask the Social and Health Directorate of which my professional body will provide a quick professional assessment. Finally, I would like to add that conversion measures will necessarily lead to debate. But I would also like to make it clear that at the same time, adjustments and restructurings are expected to improve resource use as part of a comprehensive plan. It is important that in the public debate on such issues, there is no isolated focus on what is being built-up, and that the fear of such reactions means that good migration measures, for the benefit of patients, are not implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1080	I would like to thank you for a good and complementary answer. The reduction to 5 day items is justified in economic terms. There are no professional assessments on which to base. I've checked that out this week. Eastfold has many major challenges and high levels of negative statistics. I'm sure the Minister of Health knows that as well as I do. We have long waiting lists in psychiatry. You operate with two types of waiting lists – waiting list for assessment, and new queue for treatment. This is also common in childhood and juvenile psychiatry. In 2000 it was used 1421 kroner per person. citizens for mental health protection in Eastfold. Together with the South-Trøndelag, it was the lowest investment in the whole country. In Oslo, in the same health east, the amount was p. built-in NOK 3169, well above double. Does the Minister of Health think that this is in line with the major challenges facing psychiatry in Eastfold?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1087	I am glad that we can now see that the waiting time and waiting lists are also on the way down within psychiatry. At the same time, the representative Hansen and I fully agree that there is still a lot to be done, and there is a lot to be left, not least in that part of the country that we are now talking about. I'm not satisfied with the distribution of resources that is illustrated here by the number of dollars per person. resident in the counties of Oslo and Eastfold. But I want to replicate back to the representative Hansen, who represents a party that opposed the hospital reform, that the reform actually gives us an opportunity to do something about this. This is part of a historical development. The counties have made this a different priority. Now Health East, which is responsible for both Oslo and Eastfold, will have an opportunity to look at this across state borders and to contribute over time to cohesion. But anyway, there's going to be an escalation overall.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1094	I thank you again for a good answer. I liked it well, and then we hope that Health East hears that you should have a soothsayer here. The growth of resources in somatic hospitals has been stronger than in mental health protection in the late 1990s and early 2000. Issues are raised in NOU 2003:1 about the possibility of sub-funding of somatic services at the expense of mental health protection. Eastfold has many asylum recipients, and I have taken it up with the Council of State before that we have mentally ill asylum seekers at our receptions in Eastfold who do not receive adequate treatment. This is very serious. That's what we've been told this weekend. What will the Council of State do to Health East to improve the situation of Eastfold? What will he do for those patients in Eastfold who do not now have a weekend offer and who are sent out in a situation that is not professional but financially justified?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1101	I said in my main answer that I would like to ask a statement from Health East about the economic conditions mentioned in the question, and I would ask for a professional assessment from the Social and Health Directorate of the professional parts of the question that were raised. I will follow up on that for my part. With regard to the issue of price financing for somatic healthcare in relation to psychiatry, it is quite clear that those parts of the specialist healthcare service that are not funded by a single price are vulnerable in a development where one has so clearly wanted to promote activity. But that's exactly why it's important that we have earmarked money for psychiatry through the escalation plan. How would this be if you hadn't? I see that this is a point, and a long-term goal will be to have input-based funding also for the psychiatry, but professionally, it seems to be far ahead if you're going to judge according to the report of the Hagen Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1112	I want to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Health Sør hired a board member from one of its health companies to lobby against the State and the adopted health insurance scheme. Does the Council of State consider that there is sound operation based on the system of health enterprises and the use of resources?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1121	The answer to the question of principle asked here is clear and clear: No. Regional health establishments and health-care establishments shall not operate lobbying activities in order to affect matters, either centrally to the State or to other regional health-care establishments. It's wrong with the model that's been chosen, and there's a bad use of resources. This is clearly indicated by me, both in the public debate and to regional health businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1126	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was clear and clear, and there was an answer to a fundamental question. However, I would like to follow up a bit and ask: How will – and can – the Minister of Health ensure and prevent such things from happening? We also know that Health East has on several occasions wanted, at least the media have put the spotlight on it, to establish themselves with administrative facilities in Oslo. And if it's true that it's been taken up by the board of directors to move the entire administration to Oslo, it's a serious and very thoughtful matter, I think. When we dealt with the health business case, the majority wanted to give health businesses a high degree of internal freedom for day-to-day operations and disposal. But it was to create a better health care system for the individual patient. The circumstances I have now addressed in my question indicate that they are more concerned with their own positions in terms of market shares – I do not like that expression, but it is now used in this context – and more concerned with their own administrative work situation. How can the Council of State ensure that, within the freedom granted to them, healthcare undertakings ensure that the patient offer is to be prioritised and supervised, and not trace it in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1137	I continue to respond to the principle level by saying that yes, it has been a clear aim of the reform that health care should be improved in relation to patients. I would say that after the first year of operation, when you have the power to reduce waiting times and waiting lists, you have the power to reverse the trend of ever-increasing problems with corridor Asians and have started basic processes to see how you can organise services better across county boundaries and regardless of guest patient arrangements and all the other limitations that were there before, the companies have actually delivered. So even if you are not going to do lobbying, it is not prohibited for a regional enterprise to bring up the issue of changes in the framework conditions with the owner. But from my point of view, it has been quite clear, and that is what is important for the Storting, that the location of the administrations of regional health companies that were decided under the previous government still applies. It's not relevant to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1144	I am pleased that the Minister of Health says that these are issues that also concern Stortinget. That's why I've taken it up. The National Auditor is present here today, but I was still going to follow up on this question: Does the Minister of Health think that it is the right use of funds to purchase consulting activities, as Health South has done, rather than prioritising patient treatment? How will he ensure that this is better controlled in advance, so that it is not revealed in retrospect? Does the Minister of Health also feel that it is important to involve board members in significant health companies in such alleged lobby-based consulting? Is it not possible for this to pose major problems, even in the view of the Minister for Health, given that it is compatible with the necessary integrity and stability of the bodies belonging to health businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1153	Regarding the issue of lobbying, I have answered it clearly and clearly, and I have nothing to add to what I said in my main response to that point in this context. However, with regard to the representative of Luttvold, it is my opinion that it must of course be up to the responsible directors to assess the extent to which one needs to hire consultants for extraordinary tasks of a different nature. However, basing current operations on it will probably give rise to critical questions and follow-up by the owner. I am therefore not going into a concrete assessment of this in relation to some companies. I didn't realize that this was the question that was being addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1160	Let's move on to question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1167	This question, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health on behalf of the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1170	My question goes to the Minister of Health, who answers the Minister of Social Affairs: «In the Gystadmyr residence and activity centre in Akershus, the move took place in December before the dwellings were completely clear. According to the Roman Empire's Blade lacked a key card for someone, the heat was not on, telephones were not installed. There was no help to get, and the project manager replied that the residents had to apply for help if they needed it. There were many dangerous situations, and a resident was found dead on the floor. Does the Council accept that a nursing home is functioning in this way?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1179	Let me first inform you that the Ministry of Social Affairs has been in contact with the municipality of Ullensaker on this matter, and that the municipality rejects information as produced in that newspaper article. But when that is said – nursing homes should not function as the honourable representative now describes. It will undermine confidence in the entire care service. Care homes are for people in need of care, and then the service provision must be present before, during and after the move. There must have been a very unfortunate start for the municipality of Ullensaker, which in a short time used two new, beautiful facilities at Jessheim, with a total of 90 hospitals and 34 nursing homes, day-care centres, activity centres, new central kitchens and premises for employees both at institutions and at home. The control committee in Ullensaker Municipality has addressed this matter. They have gone through it, and they say in their assessment of 28 January this year that there have been irregularities when moving into Gystadmyr. They point to the failure of planning, staffing and the lack of team organisation as a reason for this. In general, it is important that municipalities have good procedures, which ensure good planning of such relocation processes. It is now important that Ullensaker municipality itself do what is necessary to restore confidence in its service provision. They should be given an opportunity and the supervisory authorities should, of course, keep under review whether action is warranted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1188	I thank the Council of State for the answer and note that the municipality has gone in itself and admitted the unfortunate conditions of the move into this centre. It is a requirement for day-care accommodation in the municipal home service, and it is a prerequisite for the provision of lucky home services. It must then be the intention to be able to receive this assistance more or less promptly if necessary. If assistance is to be sought, such as the project leader stated to the Austrian magazine last December, how long will the user, or the relatives in advance, plan the need to apply for assistance? And does the Minister of Health think that such a practice is in line with the intentions of the Action Plan on Old Age Care?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1197	Let me confirm that the contact that the Ministry of Social Affairs has had with the municipality suggests that both administrative and political management of the municipality actively follow up this matter, in the light of the Council's thorough report and the conclusions of the Monitoring Committee. The problems encountered in the event of relocation are corrected, the service provider is now functioning correctly and the municipality has on its own initiative asked the supervisory authorities to provide a state report. Furthermore, the experience gained will be assessed in the ongoing review and evaluation of the organisation of the municipality. Regarding the question that the representative is now asking in addition, I refer to what I said in my main response that nursing homes are provided for people who need care, and then the care provider must be present both before, during and after moving in. I believe that the system of awarding services by decision makes sense, because it strengthens the legal certainty and legal capacity of users, etc. However, it must be a prerequisite that, when using the offer, care services are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1204	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Elder Plan, which up to 2005, would cost DKK 30–35 billion, seems so far to have become more and more a housing reform rather than a care reform. In 2005, there will still be a deficit of between 10 000 and 15 000 sick places, as the reform at the stated cost has resulted in only 5 000 new places during the planned period. A recent report prepared by SINTEF and Norsk Nursing Associations underlines with all clarity that the quality of care for the elderly under the age plan has not improved, rather across several disciplines. Thousands of relief patients are currently facing unworthy living conditions in nursing homes. When will this government ensure that the quality of care is improved up to a responsible and acceptable level?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1213	The action plan for the care of the elderly has contributed more than 12,000 new annual shifts in the care service, and more than half of the reinforcement is directed towards nursing homes and home care. The evaluation of the action plan indicates that there is reasonably satisfactory consistency between the need for assistance in nursing homes and the provision of services by the municipality. At the same time, there is a clear need at this stage to focus on the quality of services. I am referring to the fact that the Minister of Social Affairs will come back to Stortinget with a case on this, and I expect that the questions that the representative of Alvheim now asks will be considered in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1220	So we go back to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1226	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘Norwegian Hydro shuts down its search department in Harstad after 23 years of continuous operation. The exploration activity will now be concentrated in Oslo and 25 highly skilled jobs will be lost in Harstad. The reason for this centralisation is that driving from Oslo is more cost-effective. Do not fear that such centralisation will harm the future petroleum activity in the north, and what will the Council of State, if any, do. to prevent this closure from taking place?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1235	In response to the challenges facing both national and international Norsk Hydro, Hydro has chosen to assemble its exploration environment at Rundbo outside Oslo. For the Harstad office, as far as I am aware, this will lead to a reduction from 14 to 4 professional jobs. In addition, the 11 administrative posts at the office today will disappear. I am well aware of the concerns that such a downsizing can signal a reduction in the future oil activity in the north. However, there is no basis for interpreting the reorganisation in such a way. According to Hydro, reorganisation will make it possible to make more effective use of the exploration expertise in relation to the potential of the entire Hydro global portfolio. The organisation established at Rundbo will be responsible for the entire Hydro search activity, both nationally and internationally. As a company in a competitive position, Hydro must have the opportunity to reorganise in order to adapt to new challenges. It is necessarily a responsibility for the company itself to assess the organisation and scope of its search department. However, the significant reduction in staffing at the office in Harstad is regrettable, but the search environments of all the other offices of Hydro will now be reduced as a result of this reorganisation. I believe, for my part, that this reorganisation will not be detrimental to the future petroleum activity in the north, and hope that such an improvement can contribute to a more offensive exploration activity for Hydro on Norwegian continental shelf in general. It is important that Hydro and other oil companies have professional environments in North Norway. It is rightly expected that North Norway will be able to mark increased activity on land in different economic activities as the oil activity moves northwards. In this context, Harstad has an environment of competence and a central role to play in this approach. The government wants to facilitate such development with Harstad as an important environment of competence. But further expansion of the petroleum environment in the north requires, according to Hydro, new expansions here. The government is taking seriously the challenges facing the industry with some disappointing search results in recent times. One of the main challenges for achieving the long-term development path for the petroleum activity on Norwegian continental shelf, and also for increasing activity in the northern parts of the base, is to give industry access to new prospective search area. We have recently taken clear steps to streamline search activity both in mature and immature areas on the base. I trust that these measures can lead to a renewed search activity on Norwegian continental shelf, and hope that this in turn will lead to new findings and developments that will create new jobs in Northern Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1252	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I must admit that I am not particularly impressed with the commitment that the Council of State has shown in securing Hydro's presence in the north, in Harstad. I don't think it's useful to say that you expect them to come back once. What has happened here, I think, is dramatic – I have, however, been informed about other figures in terms of the closed workplaces, other than what the Council of State has, but we can discuss this later. On the same day that Hydro decided to move from Harstad, Hydro presented its best results ever, and it badly harmonizes with what the Council of State says about the need for reorganisation and efficiency. It also invests in further petroleum activity in the north, and Norwegian supporters have made it a long way to go. But North Norway can't be left just with the problems. This is serious for the further extraction. What does the Council of State say to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1261	I have, in my reply, given the decisive emphasis that future petroleum activity should be based on a level playing field and that North Norway should notice that the petroleum activity is gradually shifting northwards. There must be a link between sites where petroleum activity develops and the increased employment impact it has on land activities. For my part, I place great emphasis on close cooperation between industry and the authorities. The industry will be invited in a short time to nominate areas in the 18th concession round with proposals that they consider particularly attractive. This round is scheduled to be held during the autumn of 2003. We also have an investigation into the consequences for all-year petroleum activity in the area between the Lofoten and the Barents Sea. It will also provide important guidance for the future petroleum activity in the northernmost regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1268	I thank you again for the answer. Does this mean that the Council of State now says that what has happened will have consequences for the company's activity in the north in the future? And does that mean that the Council of State will consider stricter requirements for the presence of companies in subsequent concessions in the north and elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1275	I do not conceal that I expect companies to have a policy that also communicates in relation to the expectations and requirements of both the Nordic business community and the Nordic environment in general, that they should be shown in activities in countries where there are oil activities off the coast of North Norway. Whether it should be formal or otherwise formulated, for my part, I do not see it as decisive. The most important thing is that the industry realizes that this is the expectation of the political environment for oil companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1283	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘Power forecasts show that if nothing is done in relation to the power balance, in addition to the government’s announced measures, we will have a deficit of about one year in 2010. 43 TWh. The Minister for Oil and Energy has expressed a wish for more imports of electricity into Norway. The reason is that we're not self-sufficient in energy. Can the Council of State explain the sources of energy from which imported energy comes and what environmental consequences of future power imports will be?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1292	The uncertainty as to what hydropower can produce each year is one of the basic conditions of current energy supply that requires particular attention. This year, we have seen to the full how vulnerable Norwegian electricity production is to the variations in rainfall. The second is that over many years there has been a weak growth in production and transmission capacity compared to the growth in consumption. In the coming years, there is reason to believe that the force balance will be tighter than it is today. The government sees it as crucial that a policy is now put in place to improve the security of energy supply in the longer term. Such work is already under way and a notification is being prepared for the Storting to summarise the evaluations in this area. In the light of our experience this winter, it will be important to follow up both a professional evaluation and a broad political discussion of the situation in the power market. In particular, it will be important to consider whether security of supply can be better achieved than at present. In this context, it is also natural to consider the need for regulatory adjustments. It is premature to conclude on what measures may be appropriate to improve the security of energy supply, but the aim of the review is to ensure sufficient energy at all times at acceptable prices for both industry, government and private households. The representative of Klungland refers to the import of electricity as a current measure. With the Norwegian hydroelectric dependency, it is undoubtedly an advantage to be connected to a larger and more stable market than the Norwegian one. This applies to transmission links to the Nordic countries and to other European countries. However, the environmental impact of the exchange of such links will vary. Both nuclear and coal power stations and other less environmentally friendly energy productions will, of course, be involved in this. However, I would like to stress that we should aim to increase energy production in Norway and thereby reduce dependence on such imports. In many parts of the 1990s, Norway had net exports of power due to abundant rainfall. I therefore consider it necessary to take comprehensive action across a broad field to improve the power balance. Policies must be based on efforts in a number of areas, which together can contribute to the desired long-term development. In addition to strengthening transmission capacity, elements of such a policy include: be committed to energy saving, new renewable energy sources, upgrading and extension of hydroelectric power plants and increased use of natural gas – both domestic gas use directly for different purposes and in gas power plants with CO2 management.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1307	In energy and environmental issues, it is important to look ahead, especially in relation to the experiences we have had this winter. So Norway is importing Danish coal power, Polish lignite, and on TV 2 yesterday it was an entry that we are importing nuclear power from installations like Chernobyl. I will therefore repeat my question, because I felt that the Council of State answered energy questions: Can the Council of State explain the sources of power from which imported energy comes, and what environmental consequences will future power imports entail? It is, of course, in relation to the need to assess the action to be taken in Norway, for example. whether to build gas power plants. Here the actors have asked for clear answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1314	Regarding the feature on TV 2, which I commented on without knowing what was going on, I just want to point out that above the Norwegian border there is only hydropower for Norwegian electricity production. Finland, on the other hand, imports significant quantities of power from nuclear power plants, but this benefits the entire Nordic market. However, the electrons are the same in any case, so what we have to consider about the types of energy entering Norway is actually what types of energy are being imported into the Nordic electricity market. And then, as I said in my first answer, it's coal-fired power plants, hydropower plants and nuclear power plants that are inside. Our goal is to make us less dependent on this. In the last 25 years, we've only had four years of import. It says a little bit about the favorable position we've had. We have to make sure that we have the same favourable position in the future, so that the North becomes more of an exporter of power than an importer of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1321	So force forecasts show that with the government's policy, we can risk having a deficit of 43 TWh in 2010. The Council of State also said in its first response that he expected a tighter market today. For the Workers' Party, the situation does not seem to be taken seriously by the Council of State and the Government, and in particular not in relation to the discussion on energy prices. For a tighter market, energy prices will necessarily also increase. But the question is whether we should conduct a'shit in Norway, live the Toten' policy, that we should not see the international commitments that we actually have in the environmental field. In this context, we believe that there is no doubt that the development of gas production in Norway, including for energy purposes, will be the best. For the Council of State, gas production is also not opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1326	That's right. The government works purposefully to introduce gas power plants in the Norwegian and Nordic electricity production, but gas power plants with CO2 management are correct. On the other hand, there are three concessions, which the representative Klungland also knows about, where we have the opportunity to produce for the Nordic electricity market. This is conventional gas power stations without CO2 handling, which have been granted a concession on the basis of the conditions of the former Labour Party Government. Those conditions are the same today that they've always been. So this government hasn't changed anything about this. But I agree with the representative of Klungland that we must avoid being in a situation in 2010 where we have a shortage of 40-50 TWh. It is the government's policy to bring more power into the market, so that we avoid this deficit and at the same time secure ourselves in dry-year situations with better cabling to the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1335	I have the following questions for the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘In Avisas Nordhordland on 29 January 2003 and in newspaper Strilen on 1 February 2003, representatives of five local KRF teams in Northern Hordland called for the construction of gas-powered power plants associated with the Mongstad plant. According to the newspapers, Mongstad can use the heat from such an energy plant to achieve 70-80 pst. energy use, versus 55-60 pst. for a traditional gas power plant. Is the Council of State in agreement with its party traps in North Hordland that it would make sense to build such an energy plant?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1344	We have had a winter that has shown how vulnerable our electricity supply is to low rainfall. The acquisitions of the power stations in the autumn of 2002 became the lowest recorded since the start of the measurements. At the same time, we had an early winter in the largest consumption areas in the Nordic countries, and prices rose rapidly to a very high level. Although there has now been a period of milder weather — and it varies from day to day — the power situation remains worrying. Evolution towards spring is very dependent on the temperatures for the rest of winter, and when the snow smelting comes in the mountains. The government is betting wide and long-term to make us less dependent on the hydropower. In this context, conversion of energy consumption and production is of primary importance. The energy conversion consists of three key parts: we need to save energy, we need to make a transition from electricity to heat use, and we need to produce more kilowatt-hours from new energy sources. Natural gas is also an important part of the strategy for safer energy supply. Before Christmas, the government made a announcement to the Stortinget about the use of natural gas. The Gas Communication draws on the broad lines of a policy for the rational use of natural gas. In a long-term strategy for improved security of supply, the use of gas can make an important contribution to flexibility. This applies both to the direct use of gas for energy purposes and to gas power stations where CO2 is handled properly. When it comes to the question of an energy plant at the Mongstad plant, I am aware that Statoil is working on different energy solutions for this plant. I would like to stress that companies are constantly assessing the energy supply to their plants in relation to current activity plans. Today there are three valid concessions for the construction of gas power plants for the supply of power to industry and general supply. None of these concessions are currently useful. A significant prerequisite for the profitable operation of such gas power plants is a price of gas that generates profitable output compared to the expected price developments in the power market. The government pays long-term attention to gas power stations with CO2 handling. In the case of any new installation and emission concessions, the Government Parties to the Sem Declaration have provided that such gas power plants are to be based on CO2 management until a tradable emission system is established in line with the Kyoto Protocol. If there is an application from Statoil for such a facility as the representative points out, it will of course be dealt with in the usual way, and according to the Government's guidelines and policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1361	I thank you for the answer, even though I'm not quite sure what was the birthright in it. This is an energy plant to provide both electricity and heat to the Mongstad plant, and in addition it can produce 2 TWh for private households, which corresponds to electricity to 100,000 households. I have a question about the progress of this, about whether these plans can go ahead, so that any decisions can be taken in 2004 and possible start-ups can take place in 2006. My question, then, is this: will the Council of State facilitate such progress to be made, or will the Council of State put obstacles to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1370	I have to ask for an understanding that I cannot take any particular position on an application that has not yet been submitted, and that of course I cannot handle this in the Stortinget. We have to get the time to do that. I also referred to the government's policy on gas power plants. There we have opened up the three gas power stations to which concessions have been granted, without those concessions leading so far to investment decisions. Should Statoil submit plans, the provisions of the Government's policy, which I referred to from the Sem Declaration, relate to the fact that until a system of allowances has been established under the Kyoto Protocol provisions, the Government will require CO2 management for the gas power plants being built.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1379	I believe that the Council of State is negative to a fourth power plant that can be powered by gas. But my question will be, if there is a suggestion that one move one of the concessions given to Statoil Mongstad, will the Council of State be positive? And will that, as the Council of State considers it, fall under what is written in the Sem Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1384	This is a situation which has not yet been discussed in the ministry. The three concessions granted are granted to Natural Power and Industrial Power Mid-Norway respectively. There are both practical and legal issues related to such a possible concession transfer, and I cannot take a position on this in the United Kingdom today, as this issue is not yet up to date and has not been presented to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1392	I have a question for the Minister of Education and Research. The question concerns the upper secondary education syllabus in B and C languages: ‘The secondary education syllabus gives foreign-language students the opportunity to take the exam in their native language at the level of the B or C language. In spring 2002, there are more than 50 languages and at 3 different levels of examination on the basis of a centrally prepared written test from the Learning Centre. Does the Council of State believe that Norway as a nation should use educational resources for such specific schemes, or will the Council of State take action to wind up this special scheme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1401	In my opinion, the scheme in question is not a special scheme. It is a documentation system that allows foreign-language students to demonstrate their competence in a language in which no training is given. No resources are used for training, only for task preparation and censorship. This is a very small part of the total use of resources for the post-secondary examination. In fact, the documentation system means that students who have a native language/first language other than Norwegian, Sami, Danish or Swedish are given an opportunity to take an examination in a language in which no training is given and to receive this grade on the diploma. This examination replaces one of the B or C languages in which training is given and which is compulsory in secondary education. The students must pass the examination as a private individual. Business as well as society in general need more language masters. The Council of Europe and its Member States agree that efforts should be made to promote linguistic diversity in training in order to stimulate intercultural understanding, mobility and economic development. Language diversity includes both the national and foreign languages of each country and the minority and immigrant languages. Norway also needs such a wide range of language skills, which are becoming increasingly sought nationally and internationally. I consider this opportunity to have documented language competence in such a context as valuable, and have no plans to wind up the scheme. On the other hand, I believe that there may be grounds for considering simplifying it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1412	I thank you for your answer. In the upper secondary education syllabus, the scheme is referred to as ‘to a reasonable extent’. In fact, the Council of State considers it to be ‘reasonable’ when Norwegian schools provide exams and censorship in e.g. Bosnian, Polish, Croatian, Albanian, Serbian, Turkish, Kurdish, Arabic, Persian, Punjabi, mandarin, Urdu, Tamil, Vietnamese, Somali and Swahili? With more than 50 languages at three different levels, haven't we opened up to an extent that is unreasonable to its extent and in demands for resource use?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1419	No, actually, I don't agree with that. This is a documentation scheme. It is very cost-effective, in the sense that these are not resources for training – only for the completion of the exam and to document a type of competence that society needs. So I think the scheme is actually profitable, both for individuals and for society. As I said instead, there's a very small proportion of the resources we spend on exam liquidation that goes to this. Nevertheless, I think that might be the basis for looking at the possibilities of simplifying the system. I have become aware that the former Exam Secretariat, which is now part of the Learning Centre, and the Ministry in 2000 discussed a proposal for simplification of the scheme. The proposal was that the examination should be completed only once per year. years, against two – as you do today. This proposal was not finalized, but it is a proposal I believe it may be grounds for consideration. It will save some resources. But, as I said, in any case, there's not much resources to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1428	I am pleased to record a certain movement from response 1 to answer 2. I refer to the curriculum’s mention of ‘Why Learn More Foreign Languages’: ‘Increasing internationalisation requires knowledge of foreign languages other than English in order to master societal challenges.’ Does the Council of State consider that this purpose is justified in providing examinations and censorship in the 50 languages in question, in the many languages now mentioned by examples? What challenges do we face as communities living in Norway, which means that we should offer a system through which we can take exams and have censorships in languages such as: Bosnian, Punjabi, Urdu and Vietnamese – to mention anyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1440	After I have been informed, I have now developed exam assignments in approx. 65 different languages. I stand by the fact that it makes a lot of sense. It is cost-effective for society and for individuals. It is rewarding, both economically and otherwise, to have people prove their real skills — especially if this could lead to shortening the education that you might otherwise have taken. Tomorrow, Odelstinget shall consider a proposal for a change to the Training Act relating to access to proof of professional competence and to obtaining a certificate of competence. It's some of the same way of thinking. If people have real competence, it is effective to allow them to document it. We save on training, and we can get them into other education and work faster. So I'm pretty sure this makes sense. But that doesn't mean that we can't assess a simplification of the scheme, like that. to proceed to the completion of the examination once a year instead of two. I'm going to evaluate that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1452	‘Later research shows that the algal toxicity problem is on its way to solving. A groundbreaking project has been completed in Lusterfjorden, on a dueng basis. Fresh water from the power plant is brought into fjords to swirl favorable nutrient topics from lower water layers. This is how the growth of good algae is stimulated and the bladder is growing toxic-free. The results give rise to optimism. Further efforts are also needed from the state to verify and implement the results. What will the Council of State contribute?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1459	The development of Norwegian shellfish industry is influenced by a number of factors, while there are different local conditions for shellfish farming along our coast. There is a need to look at the various measures to develop industry in the context. Some of the issues that need to be addressed in the future are of a research and development nature, including various problems related to the emergence of toxic algae. As a single measure to clarify the possibilities for controlled detoxification, a pre-project was launched in 2001 in Sognefjorden. The project includes, inter alia: tested practical methods for detoxification by locality improvement, by collecting clean and nutritious deep water that can stimulate the growth of toxic diatoms at the expense of the toxic algae. The test was carried out in Arnafjord in the municipality of Vik, and the cost framework was 2 million. kr. The Ministry of Fisheries, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs agreed to finance the project. I myself have been presented with the results, and I agree with the questioner that here are great opportunities to develop nutrition in the matter of shellfish. The project we are talking about has been developed later and will continue in 2003. The extra experiment aims to modify the discharge of fresh water into the Jostedal power plant in the municipality of Luster, so that more of the nutrient-rich deep water is brought up to the surface, which I also mentioned instead. The additional experiment in Luster is also a co-financing between the Ministry of Fisheries, the Research Fund of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Industry, Statkraft, the Municipality of Luster and the Municipality of Vik. The preliminary results give rise to optimism and grants have now been applied for for for the continuation of the project. However, the extent of the project, together with the extent to which it has addressed different issues, suggests – at my discretion – that the project is assessed in a broader context through the ordinary instrument. With the large overall marine development needs there, it will be important to assess where and how public funds can lead to most development. In a country such as Norway, with such varied and good conditions for the development of diverse aquaculture — including shellfish — it is among others. equivalent to localising specific development measures to locations where the threshold for breakthroughs in the area will be the lowest. So it's also a localization issue. The ordinary instrument is, in my opinion, well protected from such assessments. Among other things, existing programmes in the Norwegian Research Council, and in particular through the user-driven programmes, can be agreed by industry and research communities on where the shoe is printed and where the effort should be put. The role of the Ministry of Fisheries will be to assist with leadership of a more general nature. I take a positive view of a continuation to clarify the issues that have so far been clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1474	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Minister for Fisheries is interested in this matter, because there have been many speeches about the potential of fishing and aquaculture industries over the years, some of which have taken part. We have been told that this is a bright future. But there is no doubt that algae poison is one of the most important problems to solve. Without a solution, much of the potential in the industry will not be useful, because we also have a question about the area here. If you just look for pockets where there is no algal poison, it is a very limiting factor for the dichotomy. So the problem of algal poison has to be solved. The solution can also be an export product, because there are actually many areas around the world that have this problem. I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries whether the Ministry of Fisheries can contribute to a further lifting, as they actually did in 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1485	We can agree that there have been many celebrations, and there has been every reason to hold celebrations for the marine sector, because the potential is great. At the same time, we have to admit that in the case of shellfish, the breakthrough has been delayed. That's enough because toxic algae are a limiting factor and a problem that we haven't satisfactorily solved yet. The studies and the groundbreaking project that the queryer refers to in Lusterfjord are another step that can lead us on. That is why the Ministry of Fisheries has been involved in financing what has been done, in co-financing, and we are providing verbal support to continue it. But we think that we have now come so far with the relatively small resources we have in the Ministry of Fisheries to stimulate individual projects, that this must be lifted into the ordinary instrument. In addition, we from the Government during the spring are returning to a total review of the instrument, where innovation is to be one of the most important criteria. And now we're talking about innovation to those degrees to trigger a potential for value creation. So I'm positive, but, as I said, I'm referring this project into the ordinary funding channels.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1494	It worries me that it may seem that the party numbers will continue. Of course, the industry is primarily in need of practitioners who really want something and who are hungry for results. They have us a lot of them. But research efforts must be intensified. And even if the fund's increased monthly, it doesn't seem to be enough. I would also like to remind you that it is important to show potential investors that the Minister of Fisheries, as the Governing Authority, really wants a lot in this area. Too much money, including private capital, has been burned off, and then it can be hard to get investors to get rid of this again if they don't see enough of us in this area. The size has previously stated that one should use massive amounts of money to solve the challenges of division. In my opinion, the effort has not been consistent with the level of ambition. So I would have wished for a slightly more offensive attitude on the part of the Minister for Fisheries when it comes to this project, which is clearly innovative.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1503	This is offensive, and in 2001, 2002 and 2003, both the previous state councils and I have contributed to the financing of this single project. From my point of view, it is just an offensive position that we are now lifting the project into a wider context, ensuring that the research fund of the fishing industry intervenes, that the Norwegian Research Council intervenes, and that the user-driven programmes are implemented, so that the industry and research communities raise this even higher on the agenda. From my side there is so decidedly an offensive attitude to this. But we must not underestimate that here we have some biological issues that we still consider to be unresolved. That's why I think it's going to have to be added heavier instruments than the ones that have been added now.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1520	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Question 16 has been dealt with earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1528	This question, from the representative Frode Hervik to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative May Britt Vihovde.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1531	‘When Askøybrua was opened in 1992, there was a requirement that there should also be a quick-boat link between Askøy and mainland. For the ten years that have passed, the ‘Roadway’ has been running on the link without public support. It has our Ashkoy suburban track – and it must be called a modern and environmentally sound alternative. A closure would be very negative. Will the Council of State help to ensure that the «Beinwegen» can become part of the total collective supply and receive operating aid in line with bus transport?»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1538	I am committed to strengthening the position of public transport in the Bergen area and in other metropolitan areas. A good community offer in cities improves the environment locally, reduces the need for road development and contributes to fewer queues and increased accessibility. In this context, I believe it is essential that metropolitan areas have the greatest possible local freedom to organise the transport sector, so as to facilitate increased collective participation and environmentally friendly transport solutions for the rest. I think it's a great unsolved potential in being able to see, among other things. road and collective action in the context of urban areas. In addition to the increased budgetary effort to facilitate public transport in the 2003 government budget, I have therefore taken the initiative to undertake extensive pilot work with new ways of organising the transport sector in the major urban areas. These urban trials will be initiated from the beginning of the year, and the cities to participate in the experiment will be finally identified during the spring. A new administrative organisation means that opportunities for travellers to achieve improvements in supply are strengthened. These offers should be improved. Local authorities will be able to see spatial planning, transport capacity and traffic regulation in a completely different way from today. The cities participating in the experiment could also be provided with funds from a new incentive scheme for the Ministry of Transport budget with a view to strengthening and promoting the growth of public transport in metropolitan areas. I intend to introduce the scheme in 2004. With regard to the specific issue of the «Beinwegen» on Askøy, I would like to stress that there are no obstacles on the part of the State to the possibility of «Beinwegen» receiving operating aid on the same lines as bus services. The county councils allocate funds to the operation of local public transport, and there is nothing to prevent the municipality of Hordaland from devoting funds to the ‘Beinwegen’ if such a priority is localised. I am also aware of the major challenges facing the Bergen region in the years to come in finding forward-looking and environmentally friendly transport solutions. The Bergen programme for transport, urban development and the environment addresses some of these challenges, and strengthening public transport is central to the programme. I hope that the local and central authorities together will be able to ensure that the main principles of the Bergen programme are applied throughout the Bergen region, so that we can ensure environmentally friendly and fast transport solutions with sufficient capacity to meet future, increased transport needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1556	I am very pleased with the clear answer given by the Council of State, namely that this is within its responsibilities, and that the county here actually has the opportunity to go in with funds to the "Roadway" to secure him as a good collective offering. I know that the Council of State is busy by Bergen and the challenges Bergen has, as the first Minister of Transport to allow planning agents for the city track. But Bergen is facing quite major challenges, and today there is a discussion between the county council and the city of Bergen about participating in this pilot project of creating good cooperation bodies, and whether it is in one way the priority of collective funds. The councils include these incentives and these incentive schemes, and my question is: are they linked to how one organizes this, and are the councils prepared to intervene and resolve the conflict that has arisen, in order to achieve the best possible organisation of collective services and priorities in the Bergen region? The left has opted for the Bergenpolitikers themselves to look at this, but I also see the need for the surrounding municipalities around Bergen, which are, in fact, an important piece that users of the collective services that exist there must enter into this and participate in giving guidance on how to prioritize the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1565	I am concerned that this experimental system will succeed, in that we are able to organise the collective provision in the big cities in such a way that more people actually choose to travel collectively. This is a challenge for many cities, including Bergen. I see that there is a disagreement between the municipality of Bergen and the county council in relation to this attempt. I want, of course, to agree between them, so that we can carry out a test where we can just pick up the winnings we are looking for. I am going to contact Bergen and the County Council to find out what opportunities there are to agree to implement such a project. I believe that the collective share can be increased, but it requires part of all parties, both the municipality, the county and the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1570	I am very pleased that the Minister for Trade is now taking action on this and in cooperation find a solution. But Bergen is facing quite major challenges. One has some bridges that bind the islands around with Bergen – e.g. Ashøybrua and Nordhordlandsbrua, which are today toll-financed but soon paid off. When they're paid down, even more people will run over the bridges, and here there are great possibilities of creating good collective solutions. If everyone is going to take a bus from Ashøy, it's not really good enough either, because the pressure towards the city and into the Bergen center is quite large. Here it's about perhaps setting up a traffic hub, a collective hub, where people can put their car and get some facilities, and then sit down on a bus or on a boat in towards Bergen. Then my question becomes: Will this also be things that the Minister of Transport will look at? It's not listed in the Bergen program at all, but will the Council of State look at this?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1575	I am concerned that a solution can be found precisely in relation to the challenges referred to here. The possibility is already there today, and it will be possible to coordinate even better if you choose to join this pilot scheme. It is important that we look at the big cities in the context of neighbouring municipalities, because there are good work areas that would like to go beyond the municipal boundaries. That's why we have to look at it in a larger whole. It is clear that Bergen has a special challenge in this way. It requires that not only the municipality of Bergen grasps it, that we from the government take hold of it, because we have, among other things, responsibility for a part of the road system, and that the county council is gripping it, and that together we see what solutions can be met, so that we get a good collective share and a good environment, not least in relation to land use in a city like Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1584	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Medium-sized cars between 3,5 and 7,5 tonnes are not allowed to run faster than 80 km/h, although the speed limit may be both 90 and 100 km/h in some places. Many of these cars are private cars/company cars and are therefore used as normal passenger cars. Does the Council of State see that the regulations, which were first adopted in 1957 and re-examined in 1986, have not taken into account the development of the car park in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1593	It is, as the representative Bredvold points out, set out in the legislation today that, on routes with a specific speed limit higher than 80 km per hour, motor vehicles with a total authorised weight of 3,5 tonnes or more or motor vehicles with a trailer must not be driven faster than 80 km/h. The background to road safety is taken into account. Most heavier vehicles do not normally have driving characteristics such that driving at speeds above 80 km/h can be defended for road safety reasons. I would like to highlight in particular that such vehicles have lower brake capacity requirements than passenger cars. This means that some vehicles in this vehicle class will have a braking distance greater than the vehicle under 3,5 tonnes. In September last year, however, the Ministry of Transport asked the Directorate of Road to draw up a legislative proposal to ensure that buses complying with defined safety requirements, including: ABS brakes, frequent checks and seat belts at all places are allowed to follow the speed limit sign where this is more than 80 km/h. The inclusion of cars intended for passenger transport with a maximum authorised total weight of between 3,5 tonnes and 7,5 tonnes has increased in recent years, a good part of which has driving characteristics similar to lighter passenger cars. I am therefore positive to look at the possibility of allowing vehicles with driving characteristics similar to those of passenger cars to also follow speed limits of 90 and 100 km/h. Therefore, I would like to ask the Directorate of Road to assess the consequences of such a change of rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1604	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which this time was positive, as I see it. I thank you again for that. There are quite a number of cars of this type in Norway. Drought 30,000 cars have a total weight of 3500-7500 kg. Among other things, it is approx. 3,000 Chevrolet Tahoe, and that's about. 3000 Chevrolet Suburban etc. These are good, safe cars which are often used as a family car/company car and which have equipment and safety at least in line with a normal family car. I think both the Council of State, me and others would rather sit in a Chevrolet Suburban, for example. – now there was a lot of advertising, but have excused me – than for example. and Nissan Micra. It goes without saying that it is safer to sit in a large car instead of in a small car if anything should happen. Therefore, it is perhaps important that these types of cars are given the opportunity to follow the same traffic rhythm as other cars where it can be driven 90 km/h, and where it can be driven 100 km/h.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1611	For me, security is important. I've said that many times in this room, so also in relation to this area. I am concerned that we both have to look at the risk to those who are driving in the cars in question, and the risk they represent to others in the traffic image. Based on what we know about how fast it is going, for example. of buses and in so far as the other types of cars mentioned here are concerned, I see reason to go through the legislation and see if it is time for a change of rules. As I said, the analyses you carry out of the risk will be leading.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1618	I thank you once again for your answer. I'm not going to make this matter any more. At least as I understand the state council, I think we have the same goal with this, that we get equal rules for similar cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1628	This question, from the representative of Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Bjørn Lothe.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1631	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «This winter we have again seen large combinations of vehicles which are poorly protected to cross Norwegian mountain crossings. For example, this has been a significant problem both in the Rollestadjuvet and at Röldal-Haukeli on E134. Often this applies to foreign trailers without chains and with poor tyres and poor equipment for Norwegian winter conditions. This leads to dangerous situations and further work for the vegetate and the police. What measures will the Council of State introduce to remedy this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1640	I am very concerned about reducing the road safety and accessibility problems created by heavy vehicles with poor tyre equipment during the winter season. In this context, it is important that we have good legislation and that the regulatory authorities monitor compliance. Today’s legislation provides good opportunities to stop vehicles that are not damaged by driving conditions. The provisions in force state that a vehicle must not be used without ‘ensuring adequate traction in relation to the driver’s seat’ and that non-compliance may result in a prohibition of use. The provisions also provide that vehicles with a maximum permissible laden weight exceeding 3,5 tonnes shall cause a chain ‘if it can be expected to run on public roads that are snow- or ice-covered’. It is therefore not correct that with today's rules it is only mandatory to have a chain when you are going to drive on particularly hard sections, as has been claimed in the media in recent times. Depending on the type of breach and the severity of the infringement, the current rules on the imposition of a ban on use on the site, the imposition of a fee and a police report are open. In the 2003 state budget, increased efforts have been made in this area, increasing the total number of heavy car checks from 280 000 in 2002 to 300000 this year. In 2001, 220,000 heavy cars were checked. I have recently, in a letter to the Directorate of Roads, underlined the importance of increased effort and strict control of the winter equipment on heavy-duty vehicles. The Road Directorate has asked the regions of the State Road Service to carry out more and more targeted checks on tyre equipment and the use of chain. The ‘Donna Diesel’ Road Service Information Campaign shall be continued. This campaign is directed against heavy foreign transport, and the aim is to reach drivers, transport companies and freight forwarders with information on conditions and rules relating to winter traffic on Norwegian roads. Particular attention will be paid to providing such information to drivers and companies from Russia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Romania. I have otherwise asked the Directorate of Road to follow closely the developments in the number of accidents caused by poor tyre equipment on heavy duty vehicles during the current season. If the measures taken in the current season do not have a satisfactory effect, I am set to add to an enhanced use of instruments in the next winter season.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1659	I would like to thank the Council of State for its answer. I am glad that she takes care of this problem. In addition, I would like to mention that today we buy transport services where they are the most reasonable. As a result, foreign vehicle trains, especially many from Eastern Europe – to which the Council of State was also involved – have had a common view of winter days at Norwegian mountain crossings. The biggest problem is that the drivers of these vehicles from the east often don't know what a smooth Norwegian winter road can do. They often have chains, they have bad tyres, they have little or no money with them, and they can't understand, neither in English nor in Norwegian. It thus leads to great traffic hazards and cork for other road users, with the costs and disadvantages they bring both to business and to most people. I must therefore encourage the Council of State not only to be involved in legislation, but also to make active use of it, including at regional level.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1668	As I underlined in my answer instead, that's exactly what we're getting at. Two things: there are controls, which we are increasing significantly, and enforcement. There are ways of sanctioning and they should be used. It's the most effective way to deal with this problem. In addition, information is important. Both of these areas are currently being addressed – regulatory information and controls. Without our success in this area, I'm afraid we're not succeeding in total. That's why we have to bet on both of these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1673	I thank the Council of State. We need to have a code - we need a general code. I will not include any general EEA scepticism in this, but I would like to point out that the legislation needs local and regional adaptations. We do not need the same equipment on a salted tribal road in Eastfold as on the rest of the national road network, such as Row 7 over Hardangervidda or E134 over Haukeli. Both the police and the road authorities locally need work to make rapid decisions, both at the Swedish border and at our mountain crossings. Basic road safety is far more important than a theoretical flow of poor cross-border vehicle trains. I am pleased that the Council of State will continue to work on this, and I am waiting for speed to be speeded up in this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1682	I would like to stress that we have speeded up this work. There's a lot more to bet on this work this year than last year, and we're going to continue with this effort. Again, letters have been sent to all regions that this is an important matter to be prioritised in winter. Both the State Road Administration and the police have a responsibility in this area. It's being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1699	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1705	This question, from the representative of Ulf Erik Knudsen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1708	I allow myself to ask a question as follows: ‘The Directorate for Nature Management has provided an assessment of enhanced conservation of a very large area in the Rollag East Mountain in Buskerud. [[Trillemarka – Rollagsvjell]] The local authority of Rollag has expressed strong scepticism about the professional justification and the lack of local involvement that has followed the proceedings. What will the Council of State do to ensure local participation and participation in the use of the areas on which protection is proposed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1717	On 13 December 2002, it was estimated that the number of drug users in the EU increased by about a quarter of the total number of problem drug users in the EU. 40 km2 in Trillemarka protected as a nature reserve. The protection proposal on which the question is addressed is a proposal for an extension with a total of approx. 160 km2 in neighbouring areas. I will first briefly summarise the history of the matter. In the case of previous records relating to the protection of the coniferous forests, protective values were demonstrated in the adjacent areas, but these areas were then removed from the process due to limited area frames for the protection of the coniferous forests. Based on these previous registrations, and supplemented by new registrations of the environmental protection values in the area, have, inter alia: Norway’s Nature Conservation Association and Nature and Youth committed themselves to an extended forest protection in the area. On 9 September 2002, these organisations proposed the establishment of a nature reserve in the area. For this area, forest owners have voluntarily refrained from significant peaks during the 2001–2002 operating season, which I believe is evidence of responsibility on the part of forest owners. The autumn of 2002 addressed issues such as: the forest owners in the area and the Rollag municipality to the Ministry of the Environment on the matter. In meeting with the Ministry of the Environment's political leadership on 2 October 2002, representatives of the local forest owners and the Viken Forest Association stressed the need for a clarification on the extension proposal of approx. 160 km2. Following this meeting, the Ministry of the Environment sent a letter on 24 October 2002 to the local forest owners, the Swedish Forest Association and the municipality of Rollag, clarifying the status of the area at that time. In the context of the 2003 State Budget, the Energy and Environment Committee of the European Parliament asked on 15 November 2002 what the Government would do to ensure that there would be no undesirable interference in the area. In my reply to the Stortinget in a letter dated 20 November 2002, it appeared, among other things, that: that, in consultation with the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture would introduce notification obligations at the highest level in the area. In addition, it appeared that the Ministry of the Environment asked the Directorate for Nature Management for a professional assessment of the protection proposal. The temporary obligation to notify at most in the area was imposed by the Ministry of Agriculture on 4 December 2002. In the process of designing the conditions for the reporting obligation, there was direct contact between the authorities and forest owners’ organisations. Furthermore, on 16 December 2002, the Directorate for Nature Management recommended, on the basis of the evidence available on protection values and interventions in the area, that a formal procedure should be initiated under the Nature Conservation Act. As a basis for its recommendation, the Directorate has used registration reports and technical documentation from, among others, Norwegian Institute of Natural Management – NINA – and County of Buskerud. The Directorate has also referred to the evaluation of forest protection in Norway carried out by NINA and Skogforsk in 2002, as the basis for its assessments. This shows that there has been considerable contact between the authorities and forest owners’ organisations in this matter. The Ministry of the Environment has not yet taken a decision on the recommendation of the Directorate of Nature Management. The various aspects of the case will be carefully assessed before any formal procedure is initiated to assess the protection of the site. If such a process is initiated, great emphasis will be placed on ensuring the involvement and involvement of locally interested parties in the case and both protection values, user interests and limitations will be further assessed as part of any procedural process.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1738	I would like to thank you for your answer. It is not just in Rollag that the protection proposals have produced reactions. There have also been strong reactions from the municipality of Sigdal. According to Drammen's Official Journal, the municipality has only three days to comment on a proposal. The municipality of Sigdal has also decided at the municipal board meeting to bring an action against the State in connection with the protection plans. One of the strongest critics for what has happened is the Council of State's own party colleague, Runolv Stegane, who says to Drammen's Official Journal on 15 February 2003 that there is little or no respect for local authorities entering the protection process at an early stage. On the basis of this, the Council of State will re-assess the run-up in order to ensure a lower level of conflict than is available per year. Today?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1747	I would say that, in relation to such issues as we are discussing here, there are important principles of an important area to be identified. Issues related to such a principle will be presented to the Storting in principle and in general. We will get back to that in our own big message during the spring. With regard to the contact with local interests, I would like to point out that it is set up a process whereby those concerned are given the opportunity to express their views on the proposals submitted. I would like to remind you that the Department has not yet taken a position on the recommendations available from the Directorate of Nature Management.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1754	I also thank you for that answer, and I see it in a positive direction in relation to what I am asking for. The Council of State was concerned with the participation of the Federation of Nature and Youth in this matter. Her party colleague Stegane has said to Drammen Tidende that the Association of Nature and Youth is made up of people who have an almost fanatical relationship with protection. It is interesting to see that this is taken into account in their proceedings. Another aspect is that of individuals. According to Stegane again, there are examples in Sigdal of young forest users who are totally addicted to cutting in the forest to pay interest and deductions, and who now, because of the process that has started, have major financial problems. I have to ask the Council of State to comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1763	For me, it's impossible to relate to such recordings directly here in Stortinget. I hope I get some understanding of that. I'm busy recording that character comes into the coming process. I can assure you that I will also report back to the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1772	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1775	I want to ask you the following questions: «In the municipality of Skibotn in Storfjord, a comprehensive deforestation protection has been adopted. Locally in Skibotn, there has been constant opposition to the protection project, as most local hearing bodies have indicated. The municipality of Storfjord has twice said no to the protection plan, and the stakeholders locally feel overwhelmed by the central authorities. What anti-conflict measures have the Council of State taken to respond to the wishes of the local population and of local democracy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1784	The Barskogverne in Storfjord municipality and the sub-plan for North Norway were adopted under the Stoltenberg government on 21 December 2000. As regards the principles for the implementation of the coniferous forest plan, these are laid down in the coniferous protection notification and its treatment by the Stortinge. cf. St. Report. No 40 for 1994-95 and Innst. S. No 220 for 1995-96. In the work on this plan, it has been an objective that the areas protected should be representative of the wide variation we have in Norwegian forest nature. At the same time, it has been important for the plan to be implemented with the lowest degree of conflict possible. The size also signaled that land should be found to the greatest extent possible on the country’s own grounds for reducing conflicts. This is also the case in the municipality of Storfjord, where the two locations are wholly or partly on the land of the state, Statskog. The protection in the municipality of Storfjord has encountered some local resistance. The protection plan process therefore reduced the area. The implementation of the protection also took into account the traditional commercial exploitation of the sites. The lowering of berries and mushrooms, hunting and fishing, traditional grazing, the maintenance of facilities and motor traffic on snow-covered land in the context of reindeer management is therefore permitted. Account has also been taken of the public. Normal movement and use of the areas is permitted. Further authorisation may be granted on application for necessary motor travel in respect of the hunting, fishing and maintenance of installations. The required reindeer-holding motor travel may also be permitted on application. The same applies to fencing for grazing. In Lullefjellet nature reserve, motor travel along a tractor road, as well as the marking and maintenance of paths and loops are also permitted. In one case, to mitigate conflicts, there is work on making a change. In conclusion, I would like to stress that we must not forget the responsibility we have to take care of the protection values in forests, such as: Nearly half of the endangered species in Norway are alive. Here we have clear international commitments. I believe that export-oriented industries such as forestry and wood processing will serve to document good environmental considerations in a broad sense, including a network of important areas of protection. The Minister for the Environment has previously announced that, in the context of the presentation of the Gazette on the Government's environmental policy and the state of the state of the state of the state, he will present proposals for new measures in the implementation of future forest protection. In this work it will be important to reduce the level of conflict as far as possible, while maintaining the professional quality of the protection work. The Minister for the Environment, in cooperation with the Norwegian Forest Organisation, has launched a pilot project aimed at the voluntary protection of forests. The aim of the pilot project is to clarify the prerequisites for voluntary protection to become an important mode of action in the field of forest protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1807	I thank the Council of State for a technical review of the matter. There was not much answer to the question I have asked, and then I can well interpret it so that very little has been done to meet the wishes of the local people and local democracy regarding anti-conflict measures. Now, the government has a high protection profile both at land and at sea. In many cases, private ownership is overrun, and industrial activity is restricted, often in economically vulnerable areas. At sea, the Government has called for the Barents Sea, for example, to be determined before business is permitted, and I would like to ask the Council of State what independent impact studies have been carried out before the safeguard decision was taken in this case and, if necessary, in other cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1814	First, I would like to say that I do not think the answer was a general technical review, as I was among other things. the principles on which the Storting had based its policy in this area, including: land should be available as far as possible on its own grounds in order to reduce conflicts. And as I was inside, that was the case right here. Otherwise, with regard to policy principles in this area, I have already said that we will return to this in a separate communication on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. We aim to present it during the spring, and then there will be full opportunity to discuss policy-related principles in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1821	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but since local democracy is presented as an important body in a very large number of contexts – and this is where Storfjord Municipality has twice unanimously said no to the protection plan – I would nevertheless like to ask: in presenting the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, will the decisions of local democracy be given greater emphasis, or will it continue to overrun local democracy as smoothly and arrogantly as they have now?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1826	As I've been in several rounds now, we're busy facilitating the least conflicts possible. This will be the basis for further work in the future. We are now talking about an overall policy in this area. If we want to have a policy in this area, it will necessarily have some consequences, but of course we have to do what we can to avoid unnecessary conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1834	This question, from the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1837	I want to ask you the following questions: ‘It is planned to introduce allowances for climate emissions from those parts of the industry that do not pay the CO2 tax. According to a survey in Today's Business on 31 January, a report from SINTEF and Veritas shows that cutting climate emissions is more expensive for industry than the government initially foreseen. What will the Council of State do to ensure that Norwegian industry is not subject to special Norwegian quota schemes that harm them in relation to competing foreign industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1846	The main objective of introducing an early 2005 allowance scheme for greenhouse gas emissions currently not subject to the CO2 tax is to trigger additional cost-effective measures in Norway. Particular emphasis is placed on the fact that the design of the allowance system is not such as to ensure that businesses that are profitable with an international allowance price during the Kyoto period are closed down due to particularly high climate costs before 2008. These considerations will be safeguarded by the final design of the individual elements of the allowance system in its own proportion. In particular, allowances are to be allocated free of charge under the early allowance system. The government has launched a dialogue with industry on, among other things, the potential emission reductions and their costs. In view of the fact that the industry has assessed measures over a shorter period of time than the authorities, it is considered that there is a good correspondence between the figures produced by the authorities and the industry’s organisations, inter alia. PIL, now it's come up. The level of ambition of the early allowance system, i.e.: The starting point for the total allocation of free allowances is the reduction of emissions by 20 pst. Compared to 1990. However, the government wants the number of allowances available to be reduced by closures and increased by extensions in production. The level of ambition of the allowance system was determined not only on the basis of SFT’s measure analysis but on the basis of an overall assessment. Otherwise, the White Paper shows that the process industry is already on track to meet the ambition level of the allowance system. Where opportunities are also provided for the use of allowances approved under the Kyoto Protocol and from project-based cooperation on domestic emission reduction measures, safety valves would be sufficient to ensure that the burden on industry does not become excessive. The government wants to cooperate with other countries on the trading of allowances, and it may be relevant to cooperate with the EU as of 2005. Therefore, in its further work on the design of the allowance system, the Government will include developments in the EU in this area in its assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1859	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the setting-up of the Climate Communication, the majority expressed the desire to maintain the competitiveness of the industry despite the introduction of the quota system. The majority of the population asked the Government to engage in a close dialogue with industry, stressing that the climate costs of those subject to allowances should not be too high before 2008. What measures will the Council of State include in the climate policy to compensate for the obvious costs now proving to be much higher than the Government initially envisaged?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1868	We are concerned that we should have a carefully designed system. We are concerned that we have an industry we want to keep, and at the same time we are concerned that we need to find a cost-effective reduction in these emissions. I would like to stress that there is a close dialogue with industry, and that is a close dialogue with the European Union. I want to pay tribute to the industry, which I believe has addressed this challenge in a constructive way. That is why I think we should be able to find a system that takes care of industry, while at the same time finding effective solutions to emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1873	I thank you again for the answer. Unfortunately, there is evidence that both the bulk of the population and the Government are insisting on the introduction of an early quota system, despite high costs and failing competitiveness in Norwegian industry. The government and the majority of the population have assumed that the allowance system should be designed in such a way as to help prevent the relocation of activities from Norway, while at the same time achieving the emission targets. How does the State Council assess the possibility to connect such a Norwegian allowance system to any future EU ETS?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1882	We already have examples of countries that have implemented such an allowance system. There is a dialogue between us and the EU in relation to a quota system from 2005. It's absolutely right that this is an international problem. There is therefore a need to arrive at principles that can be used in different countries, which could lead us to achieve targets both internationally and in Norway, while at the same time taking good care of industry. It requires that we design a system that is flexible enough and that triggers the cost-effective measures, that we take the measures that produce the greatest results at the lowest possible cost, all the way. Finally, there is a process in which the industry is involved, and it is important for us to have a good system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1889	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-02-19.ana.ud1826e1900	There is no record.
