ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e28	The representative of Inge Ryan, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e36	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e41	I suggest Øyvind Halleraker and Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e46	Øyvind Halleraker and Finn Martin Vallersnes are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker and Finn Martin Vallersnes are unanimously elected as presidents of today’s meeting. The representative of Gunnar Halvorsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e51	On behalf of the representatives of Marit Nybakk, Rita Tveiten, Kjell Engebretsen, Svein Roald Hansen and myself, I propose the management of the Oscarsborg fortress and other fortifications that have been decided upon out of military use.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e56	The representative, Siv Jensen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e59	On behalf of Øyvind Waksdal, Øyvind Korsberg, Gjermund Hagesetter and myself, I would like to make a proposal on changes to the petroleum tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e65	The representative Rolf Rikvam will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e68	On behalf of Øystein Djupedal, Lena Jensen and myself, I propose that technology be introduced as a compulsory subject in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e73	The representative of Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e76	On behalf of Hill-Marta Solberg and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to introduce a guarantee to ensure that long-term unemployed young people aged 20-24 are provided with a job, challenge or labour market measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e81	The representative Audun Bjørlo Lighthouse will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e84	On behalf of the representative Bjørn Jacobsen and myself, I would like to make proposals to draw Norway's requests and demands for developing countries to liberalise trade in services.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e89	The representative of Kirsti Saxi will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e92	On behalf of Hallgeir H. Langeland and myself, I would like to make a proposal to set up and contribute to the co-financing of a competence and cultural centre for the wild axis of the Tanava region during this great period.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e97	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e120	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Dagfinn HøjbrätenState Council Einar Steensnæsstatsrådet Børge Brende The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e139	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. A few weeks ago it was revealed in the media that it was a dramatic flight of members from voluntary environmental protection organisations, while the financial support from the Government is increasing sharply. In addition, there are wide variations between individual organisations in what they receive in support. For example, Nature and Youth get more than 60 pst. of its revenue from the government, while others do not receive five flat ears in support. The Progress Party made proposals during the budgetary procedure for the Government to establish a new and fair regulatory framework. It was downhearted. Will the Council now ensure a proper regulatory review, so that financial support to voluntary environmental protection organisations is based on more equal and fair criteria, such as paying members?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e148	In the case of support to voluntary environmental organisations, proposals are not only made for the amount of support to be given to these organisations, but also for the support to each organisation. We also did that in the harvest, and the Stortinget took a stand for this. We also explained the criteria and the reasons. The decision was taken by the majority. In the case of support to voluntary environmental organisations, the total amount is 35 million. kr. These are membership-based organisations, and there are also broad associations. I do not intend to re-examine this. I have taken note that Stortinget gave its support not only to the sum but also to the support of each organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e157	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am disappointed that the Council of State will not take a proper look at the suction pipe that some environmental protection organisations have in the state register. The environmental protection organisations do not only receive basic support from the Minister for the Environment. For example, in 2001 nature and youth received 1.8 million. kr from the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. In addition, the same organisation received support for international work with almost NOK 100000. And not enough – Nature and Youth also receive financial support for different projects. Since the Council of State does not wish to review this, will it at least ensure that a comprehensive overview of all types of government transfers to voluntary environmental protection organisations is presented at the next year's budget, so that this is clearly presented to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e166	I can promise the representative that, for the Ministry of the Environment, a proposal on the sum of support for voluntary environmental organisations will also be submitted in the context of the next year's budget, as well as that each organisation will be included with a proposal for support. We would also like to explain the criteria. The criteria are that there should be democratically elected governing bodies in organisations whose primary purpose is environmental protection. Organisations must have a broad membership basis or professional top competence. Furthermore, an assessment of the importance and position of organisations in Norwegian society, competence, membership and organisational structure is emphasised. So that's what we're talking about. Of course, if the Storting believes that these are incorrect criteria or disagree with what the Ministry has presented, the Stortinget is free to change on these terms and also to change the amount of aid for each organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e171	There will be follow-up questions – Øyvind Waksdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e174	It must be obvious to me that the organisations that receive public support respect our democratic rules of play and Norwegian law. Unfortunately, we've seen some examples of the opposite. Nature and Youth had illegal actions in connection with the Snow White Development and the other day an illegal action against a forest owner who was going to take timber out of his forest. Such actions may lead to major economic losses and, of course, to a risk to safety. In view of this, will the Council of State ensure that environmental protection organisations that actively and demonstrably violate Norwegian law lose all state financial support?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e183	First, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there was an agreement in the Energy and Environment Committee between the Government Parties and the Advance Party where the current year's allocations to the environmental organisations concerned – including Nature and Youth, to which I understand the Progress Party has a somewhat strenuous relationship – were approved by the Progress Party. But I notice that the Progress Party believes that the department should also assess the behaviour of the individual organisation in relation to legislation, etc. The main purpose of this support to voluntary environmental organisations, which are actually lower than the support to many other organisations – there is not much support in the Ministry of the Environment's budget for them – is to have a voluntary involvement in the environment too. The government's policy is that we should use less for project support, but more for general support, so that these organisations also have a freedom. We depend on voluntary involvement in the environmental field as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e191	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e194	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy. Many today are despondent because they have lost their job or are in danger of losing it. This is very serious, and we in the Workers' Party are concerned that the Government does not take this situation sufficiently inward. Since the government of Bondevik has taken over, there have been 75 new unemployed every day. Not least in the oil and shipbuilding industry, this situation is now quite dramatic, and therefore there were also on Friday demonstrations around the country, also in the hometown of Haugesund, against Regeringa's inaction in this matter. People are tired of that, for example. Important tasks in the oil industry are now being pursued on a case-by-case basis. My question is: Does the government intend to do anything about this development, or will the government continue to be silent while the workplace is shut down and disappears from the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e205	Combating unemployment will be one of the main policy areas in which the Government will focus. I refer to the fact that the Prime Minister has already gone out and invited the parties in Stortinget to a joint effort to combat unemployment with different measures. It is true that the high costs of the last few years, based on both high interest rates and high exchange rates, have made the situation serious for parts of our export-oriented industry. And it's a goal for the Government to pursue an economic policy that leads to a more normal dollar rate and a lower interest rate. We have done so, as the central bank has already reduced interest rates twice and has announced that further cuts may be relevant. It is clear that we also depend on efforts to develop skills and technology. There, the Government wants to invest more in research and development to make Norwegian enterprises more competitive. Finally, I would like to show that within my field I have taken an initiative within the Top Leader Forum and set up a project group to look into the level of activity on the Norwegian base. It is worrying that disappointing search results in the 16th round of the concession have led to a reduction in activity, and it is important that we now look at everything related to land access, framework conditions, small field development, late-stage production, cost structures, decision-making processes and technology needs. All of this I have then challenged a project team within the KonKraft/Top Leader Forum, a wide-ranging group to report in the summer of 2003. I feel confident that such cooperation could lead to results, so that both authorities, the supplier industry, oil companies and employee organisations can identify areas where we can increase our competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e216	Since the takeover of the Bondevik government, there have been 40,000 new unemployed in this country. That means we don't have time to lose if we're going to be able to keep jobs and make sure that new jobs are built. What has also happened is that many of the tools we could have used to create new jobs have been removed by this government, with the support of the Progress Party in several cases. I think it is good that initiatives have now been taken to try to do something about the situation in the oil and yard industry, but the point is that here it is urgent. We have no time to lose! It is too long to wait until summer to come up with concrete measures on what to do to make the Norwegian supplier industry more competitive. And so it was before Christmas that a majority in the Stortinget asked the government to look at what's the reason we're losing on a case-by-case basis, for example. in Spain, and the loss of many jobs. So my question is: will the Council of State take an initiative that means that something can happen now – not in six months or one year? We don't have time to lose!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e225	I want to show that we have already taken such an initiative. I would warn the representative Brustad against making history so that the Workers' Party has in every way done what was possible for us to get through a difficult situation for the competitive industry. This means, among other things: that the Storting must take co-responsibility for keeping a tight economic policy, and that we do not behave in such a way as to create uncertainty as to whether we get a further fall in interest rates, whether we get a lower crown price, and whether we get the stability of Norwegian economic policy that is a prerequisite for providing competitively exposed industry with the opportunities it needs. I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has now set up a reference group in cooperation with the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the relevant organisations. It is a very positive cooperation, but it is clear that, together with these investigations, we are making ongoing decisions to help the competitive industry to achieve its offers in international competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e232	There will be follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e235	SV is positive that the Government has now seen the need for increased efforts, and is excited about its follow-up. Then there are questions about whether the government has some fresh money to put on the table to increase activity. In the energy minister's field, there are several things that can be done. One is that there is a great potential for environmentally friendly energy, which can be started, allocated money, triggered environmentally friendly energy, few jobs. The second is that the extraction rate in the North Sea can be increased in the areas that exist. It has been decided by Stortinget on a proposal from SV. There, if the government is willing to put money on the table, it can start operations that produce more oil from the fields that are already being developed. It will trigger an increase in value creation, and there will be many jobs out of it. When will the Government make concrete proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e244	I would like to point out that the Government has already implemented a good part of the measures now referred to by the representative Karin Andersen. I also think it is very positive that Karin Andersen, on behalf of SV, accepts the invitation that the Prime Minister has given to Stortinget, on cooperation to combat increasing unemployment. In the case of increased oil yields from already existing wells, it is important to stress that the prerequisite to succeed in this is increased investment in research and development. It is a major effort for the Government, and it has also reflected within the current budget, where the Ministry of Oil and Energy's research budget has increased by over 13pst. With regard to environmentally friendly energy sources, I would like to point out that the Government has opened up the possibility for all households applying by 15 March to install a heat pump, a pellet stove or energy management system. And it turns out that this has become a formidable success – far beyond what we could expect. Nearly 40000 households in this country may be interested in such an installation. All of this, along with other measures, will work positively for the tasks that Karin Andersen mentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e253	Øyvind Waksdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e256	The decline in activity on Norwegian pedestal is largely due to a lack of prospective areas and a lack of political power to take the necessary steps to achieve this. The size was treated just before Christmas oil communication, and there was no lack of warnings, either from the oil companies or from the trade unions, about what would happen if nothing was done. Unfortunately, the party of progress was the only party that took this seriously and promoted the proposals necessary to give the desired activity, without the support of the others. Has the state thread now understood the seriousness of the situation, and will he now ensure that attractive search areas open up so that we can avoid the serious crisis that we now seem to have in the whole petroleum industry, with redundancies and fragmentation of competence as a result?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e265	I would like to refer to the Storting's treatment of the oil notification on 17 December last year, where there was broad agreement – not with the contribution of the Advance Party – on important parts of Norwegian petroleum activities. It is now very important that we make provision for prospective areas for the oil industry. We want Norwegian base to be competitive, and it should be possible to offer oil companies interesting exploration sites. We now open in the 18th round – and invite the companies to nominate – for new areas in the Norwegian Sea. In addition, in the North Sea Round, we have issued a record number of blocks, and we are now going on the so-called open door policy by calling out more coherent areas. All these measures are a contribution to providing the oil industry with opportunities that are still rich in Norwegian soil so that we can increase activity and contribute to the value creation of this important part of the Norwegian economy and working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e273	Asmund Kristoffersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e276	The Workers' Party's initiative to establish a level playing field for shipping companies and seafarers had a happy outcome in the Storting last week. The effect was not allowed to wait. The day after the shipowners reported that they stopped all thought of flagging out. The next day it was informed that there was a contract between a large offshore company and a workshop in More and Romesdal to build an offshore boat of 200 million. kr. If I don't remember correctly, the battle for better conditions for the shipping companies was a flagship for Steensnæs in front of the previous elections, but now the government has shown an incomprehensible passivity. The question is: why does the government fight so strongly against introducing a net pay system that immediately produces such effects – as the two examples I have given – both for employment and to safeguard the marine environment at sea and on land?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e283	As far as constitutional responsibility is concerned, I would like to point out that it is below the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. But the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen is quite right that I have been very committed to what has to do with the seafarers and Norwegian shipping conditions. I have also registered the positive reception that Storting's decision has received in the industry. When the representative Asmund Kristoffersen points out that the government should have fought hard against it, it is probably much more nuanced than that – among other things. the Government has been concerned that we housekeepers with the Norwegian economy in such a way that we do not put other competitive industries at risk in the event of a consumption of money that is not within the limits set by the Storting itself. In the case of the «incomprehensible» resistance, I would point out that the Workers' Party also has a history of this. They have fought hard against proposals that have been promoted by previous governments in order to improve the situation of Norwegian shipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e292	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e295	I want to go back to what was the chief question of the representative, Brustad. I agree that it is bad that large expansion tasks on the Norwegian base go to among other things. Spanish shipyards in a situation where we have increasing unemployment here at home. But it may be appropriate to recall that it was the government of Brundtland that in 1995, with Jens Stoltenberg as Minister for Economic Affairs and Energy, proposed the conversion of this until then the existing development regime with politically specific contracts. In the light of the so-called NORSOK report, it was proposed that the market should be the market as determined. One objective was to improve the competitiveness of the Norwegian base. The cost was going down. It was supposed to be the market as a particular expansion. It was one moment. The second was the EEA Agreement, which was the basis for not being able to distribute Norwegian yards or Norwegian farms. My question to the Minister for Oil and Energy is: What opportunities does the Council of State see in the EEA Agreement in terms of distributing Norwegian shipyards with extension contracts on a Norwegian base?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e304	I have nothing to say about Enoch's history of the facts, but I have, for my part, been more concerned with looking forward and looking at what we can do with the decisions that Stortinget has made, with the framework conditions that apply. The government has taken this seriously, so both within my ministry and within the Ministry of Industry and Trade, there is now work in progress in cooperation with relevant organisations – TBL, the Joint Confederation and NITO, among others. – to look at this. The report shall be presented in the revised national budget for 2003. Then the representative asks Enoksen what opportunities the Norwegian supplier industry has within the current framework conditions. I would like to show that the Norwegian supplier industry has considerable success outside. There has been less recorded in this debate, but that success is entirely dependent on neutral framework conditions, i.e. no pre-allocation of national companies. On the basis of such a fair competitive environment, the Norwegian supplier industry has had considerable success. Then we must not mess it up with special conditions for our own industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e311	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e314	I have a question for the Minister of Health. In the newspaper on Monday this week, there is a notice about Axess Hospital and Specialist Clinic that pays cosmetics and skin therapists between NOK 275 and NOK 430 for each patient whom they recommend treatment at this hospital. So this is how the hospital tries to buy patients and pay others to market their services. The president of the Norwegian Medical Association, Hans Kristian Bakke, says to Dagbladet that he finds this business ethically objectionable. He says the following: ‘An artificial need for medical intervention is created. And when customers are recruited by paying those who recommend it, it is extremely worrying." Does the Minister of Health agree with this? And will the Minister of Health take care to put an end to this business?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e328	I share the concerns of the SV and the representative Molvik regarding cosmetic operations, especially in relation to minors. I point out that it will soon be discussed in Stortinget, a proposal that will follow up on this. It's a matter that the Minister of Health shares. With regard to the specific matter that the representative Molvik now mentions, I know it only from the press. But the concerns expressed by the president of the Medical Association, I share. I want to make sure that the supervisory authorities look into whether the activities covered here are contrary to law and regulation. In that case, it will be followed up by appropriate authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e335	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I see as positive. This has multiple pages. In the evening post yesterday, it turned out that Norwegian public hospitals lack plastic surgeons to perform surgical procedures that are medically necessary, and that, for example, the waiting time for breast reconstruction after cancer is increasing. This is largely due to the fact that plastic surgeons go from public hospitals to private hospitals, who pay high wages, and who buy themselves patients in the way shown by the example of Axess. It is true, as the Council of State said, that there is a proposal under consideration in Stortinget that will have much stricter public regulation of both cosmetic surgery and the marketing of the industry, in particular to young people. Does not this example, in the opinion of the Minister of Health, clearly show that such regulation is now most necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e346	Like the representative Molvik, I am concerned that this market should be under public control, control and supervision. At the same time, we in Norway have a mix of private and public health services. We want to have it. We want to have the interaction and work sharing between public and private services. It must then be found that there is competition for the labour force in this context. However, in the context of the approval of the re-establishment of private hospitals, the authorities will continue to pay attention to the importance of access to healthcare professionals as one important element. I would also like to point out that the questions raised by the representative Molvik will be the subject of a separate discussion in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e354	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e357	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment, Brende. The trill field has become a concept by day. In the past few days, the situation in the potential conflict area of Trillemarka–Rollag Østfjell in Buskerud has intensified. 40 targets were protected before Christmas. That's okay. The environmental protection organisations are now committed. On Monday, Nature and Youth legally blocked a maximum outside the protected area. The hog was approved by the municipality and the county. Thus, the Ministry of the Environment launched a formal protection process. So it was a legal stallion that was carried out. My question is: does it not worry the Council that people who have actually done legal work on their own grounds are suspended as scapegoats? And will the Council of State ensure that advances in compensation are made quickly or that compensation is provided for by other means for the economic consequences of the bonding?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e366	The government did not protect 40 measures of Trillemarka before Christmas, but 40 km2 of coniferous forest. I just want to say two words first about why you protect coniferous forests. So in the coniferous forest, there are a lot of the red-listed species. endangered species, approx. Half of them. In Norway, we are a little behind in the protection of forests. About 1 pst. our forest is protected, while Sweden and Finland have protected against 5 pst. That is why it has been the aim of the Stortinge – it is also stated in the Sem Declaration – that we should increase the protection of the coniferous forests. We also depend on entering and protecting some of the areas that are most interesting in relation to biodiversity. Based on the evidence currently available, the area under the designation ‘Trillemarka’ is probably the largest remaining protected forest area in the southern part of the country. With regard to the current work on the protection plan, a proper procedure should be carried out, all of which will be discussed. We're going to evaluate the 160 to 170 km2 that's left of this area, and figure out which parts, if any, are to be covered by a coniferous protection. Of course, if you are covered by deforestation protection, you should be compensated. It is also the case that, where appropriate, those who stop at their peak shall be provided with payment arrangements until it has been decided whether or not to protect or release the forest. Norway also has strong international obligations. It is also the case that the low-buyer markets in Europe are increasingly concerned that Norway needs to intensify itself in terms of taking more care of the coniferous forest. That is why I have received a message from Norwegian Forest saying that until this protection process has been completed, they do not accept forests that are being cut in the areas in question in Trillemarka.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e377	In the case of Norwegian Forest, it just shows that it is very important that you think well before going to such drastic steps as it was done yesterday. That's now the one. Secondly, it was decided last year, three months ago, that there should be reporting obligations for these areas, so that the forest owners are in full proportion when they chop in the usual way. That scheme was to last until the announcement of the State’s environmental status by Regeringen’s announced forest protection strategy. So this happens, as I think is pretty serious about the ones that actually apply, and that have done legitimate things. That's what becomes a wrong image in this context. Furthermore, the Committee on Energy and the Environment has been concerned that there should be a low degree of conflict with regard to coniferous and other protected areas. I think this is going to be very unfortunate in relation to it. My final question is: Does the Council not agree that this is a questionable form of conflict mitigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e386	There is no doubt that I am withdrawing from illegal actions by environmental organisations, if any, in relation to forest owners who make the most legally. There is no doubt about this. What I have said is that we are now opening up a protection process in relation to perhaps the largest and most important remaining area in the East in terms of coniferous protection. Several of those who sell forest internationally say that this is becoming a growing problem, for the market asks: Why has Norway only protected 1 pst. of the forest? Sweden and Finland have protected 5 pst. How do you relate to these red lists? In the case of ‘drastic steps’ and concerns, the other way can also be seen. There's actually a lot of people who are worried that we've been hanging out here. But I'm very concerned that there should be a low degree of conflict. That is why I have also started working with the different forest owners' organisations to achieve goals, which will also include makeshifting and finding good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e395	It will be follow-up questions – Synnove Konglevoll.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e398	The Workers' Party supports the Minister for the Environment in the fact that he has now started a protection process. It is quite right, as the Minister for the Environment says, that Trillemarka–Rollag Østfjell is the only large candidate area for coniferous forest protection. The NINA and Forest Research report points to the challenge of protecting larger coniferous forests. The Directorate of Nature Management pointed out in a letter of 16 December, as far as I remember, that a formal protection process was to be launched here. The Labour Party considers it positive that the Minister for the Environment is now on the job. In the Communication on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the kingdom, which we will get to spring, a strategy for increasing the protection of the coniferous forests has been announced. My question is whether it means that the Minister for the Environment will make several concrete proposals to increase the protection of the coniferous forests.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e405	First, I would like to thank the Workers' Party for supporting the fact that we must now take some steps in relation to the largest and perhaps most important remaining relatively untouched coniferous forest area in the Central East. I would also like to add that Norwegian Forest to both the Stortinget and the Ministry have underlined the importance of Norway now increasing this protection somewhat, so that we have legitimacy in the market, because people will not buy forest from nations that do not also take responsibility for endangered species and biodiversity. In the Communication on the State of the State of the State, the Government will invite the Stortinget to go through the forest policy. The Sem statement says that we want to increase coniferous protection, and it is based on this that the Government will also present a plan. In the case of specific areas: the reason I had to take the steps I was taking now is that we ended up in a situation where the Stortinge could not take a position on this area, because there were quite huge hogs going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e416	Øyvind Korsberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e419	There is nothing new about conflict in terms of protection. The triplets only merge into the sequence. The areas that the Minister for the Environment is unable to protect protect Nature and Youth with the blessing and financial support of the Minister for the Environment. The big problem with protective matters is that you run over local democracy. You overrun the landowners. Nutrient development is stopped in the areas and districts that are being protected. Why does the Council of State not take into account landowners, local owners and industrial development in protection processes, but only completely outrun local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e426	For several rounds I have now tried to explain that even those who run the forest industry are actually concerned that Norwegian coniferous protection is going to be slightly higher, because it is beyond our market access that we are after our neighbouring countries. Even the OECD recommends in a report that was handed over to the Ministry of the Environment that Norwegian coniferous forest protection be increased somewhat in order to take care of, among other things. endangered species. When it comes to stopping the development of the industry, it is produced as if it were 99 p.m. the Norwegian forest is protected. As I also said in the introduction, it's 1 pst. of the Norwegian forest where restrictions have been imposed. In the case of 99 pst. by the forest, the ‘Live Forest’ programme and the general forest law apply. At 1 pst. the forest shall be involved in stopping the development of nutrition, it shall be — with respect to reporting — turbulent. If we do not take responsibility for biodiversity, including long-term, it will destroy our future basis of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e434	The term ‘noise’ is hardly considered to be a parliamentary term. Hallgeir Langeland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e439	SV is pleased that the Council of State in the Evening Post yesterday initiated the protection process in relation to Trillemarka - and responded to a 1 month-old letter from SV. It is positive, although it took some time to get the Minister of Environmental Protection on the track. Otherwise it is claimed today in the newspaper that mowing is still going on. One of my questions, therefore, is what the Minister for the Environment will do to stop the maximum that a victory is going on today. So to a real challenge. Governments are on the defensive in various protective cases. He knows he can come to Stortinget and get a plural for a more offensive policy. He points out that Norway has protected only 1 pst., while Sweden has protected 5 pst., and that one gets criticism internationally. Then he's placed the problem where it belongs at home, that's with him himself, as long as he doesn't use the plurality he has here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e448	Some people think I'm too defensive, and some people obviously think the government is too active here. I have to say that protecting this last large remaining relatively untouched forest area in Eastern Europe means that I was quite right from both international responsibility and from the red lists. When we operate on these numbers, one must at the same time be aware that Sweden and Finland have protected 5 pst., but much of it is mountain forest. If you look at the most important areas, such as Trillemarka in relation to the greatest biodiversity, we're not that far behind – whether we're looking for it. It also belongs to a nuance in this. I tried as best I could to satisfy what is the Storting's assumption here, that we should increase the protection of the coniferous forest, but try to move forward in such a way that through remuneration schemes and voluntary cooperation we also have the forest owners' organisations and landowners with us. But here it was necessary to intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e457	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e460	I will allow myself to ask a question to the Minister of Oil and Energy. In winter, we have seen dramatic developments in the energy market, with – according to the Labour Party’s view – unacceptable prices. Governments have previously encouraged people to go to social services if they have problems paying the bills. Now it turns out that there is no agreement in the Government on whether this is possible. The problem in the power market is that we have too little power. Norges Vassdrachs- und Energieverk was out yesterday saying that the situation would get even worse next year, because there is little water in the magazines. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the situation up to next year does not become dramatic, both in terms of prices and access to power?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e469	Let me just briefly comment on what the representative of Klungland describes as that the government refers people to the social office. That is not right, and the representative Klungland knows that. I would also like to point out that the Minister for Social Affairs has already responded to the presentation in the press today. She believes it is incorrect and gives a wrong impression of the measures that the government has put in place, and has sent out a separate press release on this. In terms of security of supply, it is a very important issue. We have a very special situation, which has revealed that security of supply is very vulnerable to rainfall. I have already taken several measures, and I have, among other things, notified a total review of security of supply and a forecasting notification thereof by the end of the year. The important thing is, first, to provide the country with more energy and, second, to make sure that we become less dependent on hydropower. So the key to improving security of supply is not more dependence on hydropower, but less. Nevertheless, it is possible to upgrade some hydropower plants and increase efficiency. There are still possibilities for upgrading existing hydropower plants and it is possible to obtain both small and micro-power plants. But next to this, we need to provide more environmentally friendly energy production. Both heat production and wind power will be important. Waterborne heat is an important field of investment from the Government, and with the support of the Stortinget, Enova has received a programme to implement this. In addition to this, we need to ensure increased security of supply from abroad, including: through cable projects, and we need to resolve the bottlenecks in the supply network in the Nordic market, both internally in Norway and between Nordic countries. Gas power plants with CO2 management are also part of the Government’s strategy to improve security of supply and increase energy production. The government's aim is to develop such a technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e478	I am pleased that the Council of State places emphasis on security of supply. The problem in Norway today is that we produce too little power compared to consumption. Then we're in a situation where Statoil now wants to build gas pipes to England to export power and build gas plants in England, and Statnet estimates to add cables to England at a cost of $8 billion, a cost that will eventually end up with the end-user. So instead of creating values in Norway of this gas, the government wants to do it in other countries, and thus become a commodity producer. On top of that is bad environmental policy. Does the Council of State think that it is a desirable development that we send the gas out of the country to import electricity back?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e485	When there is too little power in the country today, it is based on a lack of expansion through previous governments. The Workers' Party is also co-responsible for the assessment made and for the lack of promotion of measures to improve the energy balance. So it's not that this government could snap its fingers and make available increased energy production at the moment. Building more power is the result of long-term planning and expansion. In the case of the cables, the Government has not taken a decision on such projects. And in the case of gas power plants, I would like to remind the representative of Klungland once again that the three concessions given to gas power plants – and the terms of the concessionaires – are concessions granted by the Labour Party Government. Every sentence, every comma and every sentence is in line with what the Workers' Party set as a condition. When it is not built, it obviously has to do with a gap between the price of gas and the price of electricity in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e495	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Roger Enoksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e498	I have no problem joining the long-term measures to improve the availability of energy that the Council of State is now calling for, both to make us less dependent on hydropower and to equip existing hydropower plants and, not least, to invest in environmentally friendly energy measures, which are absolutely necessary to deploy. However, we are also aware that these are measures that will not work for relatively many years and that will not remedy next year's supply situation. So I'm more concerned with what the Council of State intends to take action to avoid getting into a crisis situation next year. We're talking about 50 pst magazine filling. at the entrance to next year's winter, which will be dramatic. Last year it was exported approx. 12 TWh, mainly to Sweden, in a situation where it was well known that we had a shortage of energy and would have a scarcity situation here at home. What does the Council of State intend to do to avoid getting into a similar situation next winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e505	The representative, Enoxsen, points to a very important issue. Of course, it's challenging to focus on two situations at the same time. We're going to get through this winter with the necessary force, and we're working purposefully to avoid a rationalization state. I hope we can do that. But we are very dependent on the weather and how early spring comes. It's also true, as Enoxen points out, next year's situation is worrying, both because we have low magazine fillings, and because the amount of snow so far has been minimal. It is clear that the department has to prepare for worst possible cases. We are looking at what measures can be introduced to the market to avoid such a rationalisation. I pointed out that I was willing to open up gas power plants on lighters as an emergency solution in areas that had a particularly difficult supply situation. I do not exclude such a solution or other solutions in an emergency situation, if it should occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e511	Sylvia Brustad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e514	My supplementary question goes to the Minister for the Environment. The situation today is that we are now importing coal and nuclear power into buckets and buckets because this government, despite the fact that the Right agreed to grant concessions, is doing what it can to prevent us from building gas power plants with the technology available today. When companies are informed by a government council that they prefer to build a gas power plant with CO2 management, it is clear that companies are listening to a government council. The right has been quite silent in this winter's energy debate. I think that's quite eye-catching, because we agreed that gas power had to be built to do something to close the gap between what we use and what we produce. My question is: does the Council of State think that it is good environmental policy to import as much coal and nuclear power as we are now doing, or does the Council of State think that there should actually have been an initiative from the Government to try to realize the gas power stations it has actually granted concession?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e519	The size has determined that three conventional gas power plants can be built in Norway – two in the West and Industrial Power Mid-Norway in the North-Trundelag. You can start tomorrow that day, stick the spade in the ground and start building these conventional gas power stations. The reason why these companies don't, I guess, is that you think there's too much risk associated with this. Statoil has been through a round in relation to calculations, among others. related to Snow White, where you will certainly undergo very carefully whether it is business-economically profitable. The criteria for these conventional gas power stations include, inter alia: The working party, and also the right, were involved in designing. I assumed that the Workers' Party accepted those criteria, and felt that these were reasonable criteria. So if you want, you can start building three conventional gas plants. If they can replace coal-fired power stations, it's very good, but it's up to the companies. We cannot take the financial responsibility and impose this on anyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e524	Øyvind Waksdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e527	It's an undeniable fact that if we had used our gas resources for power generation, we would have avoided the power crisis we've had this winter. The Norwegian people have now understood that, according to polls, but this is not going to take place by the government. The government says that one is for gas power plants, but only gas power plants with CO2 handling – despite the expertise we have, it might take 10–15 years before this technology, which is currently known, is commercially sound. Does this not really mean that we can expect a power crisis every year for the next 10 to 15 years, because of the government's apparent paralysis of action in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e534	As I said in a previous answer, gas power plants are part of the Government's strategy to ensure better supply of energy in the Nordic electricity market. But we aim to ensure that when such a gas power plant is commercially viable, it will be a gas power plant with CO2 management, and the Government has agreed to co-finance the additional costs that such a technology will entail in relation to the conventional ones. We see that it is important to have an eye on security of supply. We also know that the vulnerability of security of supply has become particularly evident this year, because it is over 70 years since we have had such a dry harvest, and the combination of a dry harvest and an early, strict winter – snowy in addition – makes it probable that we will have to both 100 and 200 years back in time to find a similar situation. It's exceptional, but the statistics can trick us. We can never know if we will have such a situation next year, and therefore it is important that we have a thoughtful policy to improve security of supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e539	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e542	First to the expensive stream: It is obvious that the circular government has sent out today is contrary to the decision of the Storting. It has to be withdrawn, and you have to send out a new one, so that people get the help that Stortinget and the Council of State have promised. Then I am glad that the Council of State does not support the Workers' Party in wanting more environmentally unfriendly and expensive electricity. But in a response to me a few minutes ago, the Council of State showed the success of the grant of alternative heating now has been. There are a lot of people who have applied, this is a success, you can get a lot of alternative energy, environmentally friendly, you can get people out of the power trap so they don't go to the social office until next year. And so you've set an application deadline, March 15. Is it so wise to have such an application deadline when people have obviously now seen the light? They want environmentally friendly electricity, they want cheaper electricity, and there can also be a lot of jobs here. Will the Council of State take the initiative to remove this deadline for application?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e547	It is the Stortinget that has adopted that deadline. In a recently decided case here in Stortinget, the majority for an application deadline of 15 March, and all applicants within that period, if they fulfil the other conditions, will be awarded the advertised aid of 20 p.m., up to NOK 5000. I see that this has been a great success, and I also said in Stortinget that we must not make a success of a problem. On the other hand, with regard to the assessment by the Storting of the most appropriate means of generating more environmentally friendly energy, Enova, the company in Trondheim, has pointed out that there may be other measures that are more appropriate. The government has put in place this measure to stimulate increased interest and attention to the possibilities represented by both heat pumps, pellet stoves and energy management systems. But these are profitable projects, and households can invest this in safe assurance that they get their money back.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e552	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e555	I have a question for the Environment Minister about Sellafield. When he was in Bergen not so long ago and had a meeting with the British Environment Minister, the cranes in Sellafield, after I was informed, were open, and it was released technetium-99, which it takes 220 years to halve. Technetium-99 we get back in shellfish and fish, and it comes drifting with the ocean current up the Norwegian coast. What kind of faith does our Minister for the Environment have for the British Minister for the Environment, when, at the same time as he claims that he will not allow emissions, are emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e563	With regard to the representative Bastisen's description of the serious environmental impact of these technetium-99 emissions from the plant in Sellafield, I fully share it. These radioactive emissions, which are completely unnecessary because they can be cleaned or stored instead, and which will last until 2006 if the British government does not turn around, have the effect that we now have increased radioactivity along the Norwegian coast all the way up to Svalbard. In fact, radioactivity is higher on the west coast than it is on the tipped Russian submarine ‘Cursk’ in the Barents Sea. So this is the most important source of increased radioactivity. As for the British Government and the confidence I have in it in this matter, I have to say that it is falling. I react very strongly to the fact that they continue with these emissions because they have an alternative. They can clean and store instead. But Bastesen believed that Environment Minister Michael Meacher of the United Kingdom had acted unfairly by saying that he made an assessment of whether they should stop emissions while they release. I have never understood Michael Meacher so that he has promised that they will stop emissions while assessing this. Of course, I should have liked to, but I've always said that I think it's a completely unsustainable practice. I am also afraid that this spoke as the British Government stands for, that one should now consider ending these discharges and coming up with a moratorium, enough to stay in Norway with good talk. We must continue to cooperate, inter alia. with the Coastal Party and everyone else and indicate very strongly that we are against the British pollution of the North Sea Common Mater.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e572	I thank the Council of State for the answer and am pleased that he agrees with me that the problem is big. We have just visited a TV team and a journalist from the United Kingdom, and I had an interview. As far as the UK Government is concerned, it has virtually one single instrument, and that is the emissions permit. It's a private company running and releasing technetium-99 into the sea. It's not a political-run company. But the emissions permit is governed by the British government. They actually have an emission permit. My supplementary question is this: what does the Council of State do to the political authorities in England to prevent them from releasing technetium-99 into the sea when they can store it on land? If it's not dangerous, as they claim, they should eat it. What does the Minister for the Environment do to British politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e579	First, I'm glad that Steinar Bastesen has been interviewed by that BBC team that was over here with a number of other British journalists. They were invited to Norway by the Norwegian Embassy in London in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment. Our strategy now is that this issue must also be raised in the United Kingdom, and so far it is far too much of a matter on which the Nordic countries and Ireland are concerned. We also need to show more strongly that the English fish and shellfish are being contaminated, that we are invading our common dish, which is the North Sea. So ask the representative what I can do to prevent this. Now it's not about the neighboring law. I'm not in the United Kingdom government, so I can't decide that the emissions permit that Environment Agency has given to Sellafield will stop. But I've been to the United Kingdom several times and picked it up. I have recorded it in many conversations with the United Kingdom along with the other Nordic countries. We have also coordinated ourselves in relation to Ireland, and we are running a campaign against the unsustainable practice of letting this into the sea when it can be stored instead. This campaign is going to continue the government, and we're not satisfied until we get to the end of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e586	The time for the oral questioning procedure is running out. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e591	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 1 and 2 from Einar Holstad and Steinar Bastesen, respectively, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has left. Question 3, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Justice, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister for Transport, this question is moved and answered before question 13, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 10, from the representative Sigbjørn Molvik to the Minister for Social Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question 18, from the representative of Marit Nybakk to the Minister for Defence, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 20, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e611	This question, from the representative Einar Holstad to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e614	‘Sexual exploitation of children is a global problem. If we are to combat abuse, we must work both nationally and internationally. It is not sufficient for Norway to prohibit the purchase of sex from children under the age of 18 when, for example: Russia does not have it. The attackers tend to operate abroad. In addition, illegal child pornography material is often spread over the Internet from servers in countries with insufficient legislation. What will the Minister of Foreign Affairs do to contribute to, inter alia: Russia improves its efforts against sexual abuse against children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e621	Russia is one of many countries where children are particularly vulnerable to crime and sexual exploitation in the form of child pornography, prostitution, child sex tourism and trafficking. We are deeply concerned about developments in this area and give priority to strengthening children's rights, among other things. through our work in a number of international forums. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has committed 30 million in 2003. to the Government's action plan on trafficking in women and children, launched in February this year. The plan includes measures to prevent the recruitment of children to the sex industry in the Baltic, the Balkans, the former Soviet Union and Central Asia. It also includes measures to protect and assist the victims and to investigate, i.e. the justice sector, by helping to take the backers. These measures shall be channelled, inter alia: through the Nordic Council of Ministers, the Baltic Council, the Council of Europe, the OSCE, the Stability Pact for South-East Europe and through voluntary organisations. I can perhaps add here that, although the questioner is concerned about Russia, this also involves action in relation to countries in the south. In addition, Norway participates in several international forums for police and judicial cooperation where trafficking in human beings is high on the agenda, including: Interpol, Europol and the Baltic Sea Task Force. The government has supported a campaign directed by the travel industry and Save Children against the purchase of sex from minors during foreign stays. Norway has committed itself to establishing an IT network which is a tool to combat commercial sexual exploitation of children in the Baltic Sea region. Support has been given to an action plan and cooperation project for safer use of the Internet, where combating child pornography is one of the highest priority objectives. Since 2002, a Baltic Council Children’s Group has been set up with the aim of putting important issues about vulnerable children on the agenda. Under the auspices of the Nordic Council of Ministers, an action plan for children and young people has been drawn up in the neighbourhoods. During Norway’s presidencies in 2002, the focus was on projects in North and West Russia. During the anniversary summit of Barents in the Churches in January 2003, the participating Heads of State declared that they would make joint efforts to stop trafficking in human beings in the Barents region. There is now a draft mandate for a working party to look into these problems, a draft mandate we support from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e638	I thank the Minister for the answer. Today, 50 years after Stalin's death, there's probably a lot to talk about in connection with Russia. According to a survey in the Evening Post on 25 February of this year, the revenue from trafficking in human beings is said to be greater than the income from drug sales. This should be an opinion of a representative of the Duma. In its action plan, the Government states that it aims to prevent trafficking in human beings by working to prevent the recruitment of women and children by contributing to the strengthening of knowledge and living conditions in the country of origin. Many voluntary and non-profit organisations in Norway have for a long time worked in the Balkans and the former Soviet Union with assistance programmes aimed at people in the poorest parts of society. We also know that poverty, war and conflict, lack of educational opportunities and lack of equality between women and men are important causes of trafficking in human beings. Will some of the 100 million. kr notified by the action plan could be used for the work of those organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e647	As I said in my reply, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is actively involved in the follow-up to the Action Plan, where we have set aside 30 million. kr. This is distributed in the areas in which the representative is involved, namely the Russia–Baltic region, but also to countries in the south that are important in preventing trafficking in human beings and trafficking in women and children. This is a very high priority area for the Government. That is the background to the offensive action plan that we have presented. There is also a background for non-governmental organisations to be an important player in the follow-up process. They have previously received support for this type of project, and they will continue to receive it. Thus, an important proportion of these funds will be channelled through the voluntary apparatus and through the voluntary support organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e656	This question, too, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e659	I have the following questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who will therefore be answered by the Minister for Development: ‘It has become known through the newspapers that the EU redefines the concept of island to islands with a fixed residence of at least 50 persons. If an enlarged EU, with Norway as appropriate, decides to use the same guidelines for the baseline of territorial waters as the British requirement before 1951, there will be consequences in relation to the current baseline. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs explain what this will mean for our territorial waters with such an EU-defined baseline?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e668	The representative of Bastesen refers in his question to the criteria set by the European Commission for the islands to be covered by the statistical studies carried out by the Commission as part of its regional policy. These include, inter alia: a minimum size and minimum population. In other words, the criteria have no consistency with, or impact on, the rules of international law as to whether a land area should be defined as an island and could be taken into account when establishing baselines, calculating the outer boundary of the territorial sea and assessing inter alia. whether the land area gives rise to a continental shelf outside. The latter questions are answered by the established principles and rules of maritime law for islands. There is no doubt that the baseline is calculated from the extremes of the coast, including on islands. The principles for drawing straight baselines, including: around mainland Norway and the archipelago around the latter, was confirmed by the International Court of Justice in 1951, to which the representative also referred. These EU studies will have no impact on the rules of international law in this field, nor on our territorial waters.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e677	We have experienced in this Chamber that even the Constitution has had to give way to EU legislation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now pressing for a new EEA Agreement to be signed, while extending the EU to the east. Today’s EEA Agreement is increasingly ingesting into areas that were to be determined nationally under the terms of the agreement. The requirement for the free flow of capital in the breeding industry, which is within the current baseline and is part of Norwegian fisheries, is an example of this. The requirement for increased ownership of Norwegian fishing fleets has already been presented by the EU. What kind of guarantee does the Minister for Foreign Affairs have that Norway, through a new EEA agreement, could risk losing additional self-determination in national territory within today's baseline?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e682	I think it is important to distinguish between what this EU proposal actually involves and what international law says in relation to established principles. As far as the proposal from the European Commission is concerned, it is, as far as is known, linked to the regional policy to be pursued by the European Union, also to islands with regard to minimum size and minimum population. This will, of course, be relevant in relation to other issues related to the EU, which we certainly have the opportunity to come back to. However, with regard to the issue of the impact on the territorial waters in relation to which Norway operates, there are other types of legal conditions. There are the established principles and rules of maritime law on island status as international customary law and are particularly reflected in Articles 2 to 7 and 121 of the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. The other aspect is related to the International Court's 1951 ruling, and I could possibly come back to that question, since time is up. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e691	The basic principle was one of the most controversial foreign policy issues for Norway before the Hague court ruling in 1951. Through subsequent maritime law treaties, Norway’s right of withdrawal and conservation obligations have been extended in relation to fishing resources, which the EU would circumvent in 1994 through negotiations on membership and the EEA Agreement. Is there any reason to believe that the EU will respect the current baseline if Norway enters the EU and the EU decides that the common basic principle should be established as their common fisheries policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e698	Yes, then I have the opportunity to come back to this very question. The judgment of the International Court of Justice in The Hague in 1951 is, as the representative had said, a very important judgment. It concerned a case between the United Kingdom and Norway. However, the principles of the judgment are subsequently enshrined in Article 7 of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and are thus deemed to have a customary status. There is therefore no danger in this respect that EU legislation should be able to prevent the customary and Article-based law that Norway has in relation to the basic principle and to our territorial waters.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e705	Question 3 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e711	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘According to the Evening Post of 14 February 1990. a number of municipalities terminate operating arrangements with physiotherapists. This will affect many patients financially and lead to high self-payment. Patients are guaranteed the right to physiotherapy services if necessary by the Local Health Service Act. Will the Council of State ensure that the offer of physiotherapy is maintained in all Norwegian municipalities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e720	As the representative Alvheim mentions, physiotherapy is one of the services that all municipalities under the Local Health Services Act are obliged to provide. After the municipalities were entrusted with this responsibility in 1984, there has been a steady growth in service of a total of more than 50 pst. Physiotherapy services have been relatively unevenly geographically distributed, but growth has provided better needs across the country and has led to a reduction in geographical imbalances. Municipalities can meet the needs of the population for physical therapy by employing physiotherapists in permanent pay positions or by entering into operational arrangements with private physiotherapists. The rights and obligations of the local authority and the physiotherapist in an operating contract relationship are governed by the framework agreement concluded between the Local Governments’ Central Association and the Norwegian Physiotherapy Association. The State is not a party to this Agreement. Usually, individual operating contracts are unlimited in time. The central association of the municipalities assumes that if a municipality intends to withdraw from a contract, this should, as a general rule, be done in the case of home leave. Physiotherapists with an operating contract shall have substantially the same protection against dismissal as a municipal employee – neither more nor less. This implies that factual justification is required to terminate an operating agreement on the part of the municipality. In the event of a review of dismissals in the name or court, the municipality will also have to rely on evidence that, despite the termination, the physical therapy coverage will not be significantly weaker than in comparable municipalities. Termination of operating agreements by municipalities has been very rare since the scheme was introduced in 1984. Like the representative Alvheim, I am somewhat concerned about the notifications in the last few months that several municipalities now seem to be assessing such terminations, although it should also be said that in most cases the proposal does not seem to be implemented. With musculoskeletal disorders as the main cause of sick leave, and with increased efforts by the social security system and the social partners in connection with the intentional agreement on an inclusive working life, I believe that there are very few, if any, municipalities that may claim to have overcapacity in the physiotherapy service. I cannot instruct the municipalities in this matter. It is the responsibility of municipalities to dimension healthcare in relation to the needs of the population, but they should have a physical therapy service. I will follow developments. If there is a risk that the provision of services in a municipality will become unwarrantedly low, so that the law cannot be said to have been complied with, the supervisory authorities must act against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e733	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, which I feel is positive. According to the Health Services Act of the municipalities § 1-3, the physiotherapy service is referred to as one of the municipal tasks and has been done in practice only by establishing an operating agreement with one or more therapists. Now, when some municipalities obviously get rid of the operating arrangements with physiotherapists, it affects patients quite financially, as they have to pay the entire fee themselves, and it is quite high. Will the Minister for Health get an overview of the municipalities that have terminated their operational agreements with physiotherapists, and will the Minister for Health in that case ensure that operating agreements are restored under the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e742	As I said in my main response, I assume that the county doctors and the Health Service will follow up on whether the development of this service is contrary to the law and is developing in a way that is not sound. I want to ask the Health Inspectorate to have an alert eye on this. Making sure that any change in the contractual relationship between physical therapy is stopped, I can't promise, because I don't have the authority to. This is the responsibility of the municipalities. But they have to comply with the law, and I want to stress that it's a clear oversight task to see that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e749	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Poor local economy or not, statutory tasks must be performed by the municipalities. The system of roof II has been adopted, and how will this affect this group of chroniclers, who are in need of physical therapy on a relatively large scale? In my opinion, municipalities cannot rely on the II scheme to terminate such operating arrangements in order to save money, as there are a significant number of patients in municipalities who need shorter physiotherapy treatment and who are not to be charged with more than usual side effects of treatment. I find it reasonable that the Minister of Health here intervenes and ensures that the municipalities fulfil their statutory duties, so that one does not experience that the Norwegian Physiotherapy Association is running legal proceedings against a number of municipalities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e760	I agree with the representative Alvheim that using roof II as a reason to reduce the supply of physiotherapy in the municipalities will not be a matter of fact. On the contrary, the introduction of Roof II, which provides access to physiotherapy services to a greater extent and becomes more reasonable for patients, will mean that the need is not reduced but rather increased. As far as interventions against municipalities are concerned, I refer to what I have already said, that the supervisory authorities have a responsibility to monitor whether the service falls to an irresponsible level, and intervene if that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e770	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘Ski hospitals have become part of Aker University Hospital. It is unclear whether the Ski Hospital should become the Aker after-treatment department or whether it should be developed as a local hospital for the Follos population. This shall be determined internally in Aker and Health East. The inhabitants of Follo are completely disconnected from the decision-making processes. In 1997–98, the Stortinge decided to build a new local hospital in Follo when mention was made of the location of the new Rikshospital to Gaustad. How will the Council of State follow up its decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e779	Let me start by reminding you that the hospital reform, among other things, The goal is to get more health for each of the heads. This will be done by exploiting the potential of seeing services across borders and thus improving accessibility. Regional health undertakings shall achieve these objectives within the limits laid down by the size scheme. As far as Ski Hospital is concerned, I can inform you that the emergency outpatient clinic for internal medicine and surgery will be maintained as it is today. One also assesses the potential for an extension of the activity or new activity in, for example, small surgery, elective surgery and gastrointestinal disease-related activities. I believe this shows that Health East does not take lightly or neglect the needs of the Follo region. On the contrary, Health East assures me that they will take care of this, and that they will also ensure active dialogue and contact with municipal and county authorities. As far as the last point is concerned, I fully agree with Haga's representative that this is very important. I trust that Health East will carry this out in a good way, and that the questions raised by the representative Haga will be clarified through those processes that Health East has now initiated. Let me then go over to the part of the question that is related to the expansion of hospitals. Prior to the hospital reform, the then hospital owners, county councils, had determined or planned new buildings or upgrading of existing hospitals at a total cost of well over 50 billion kroner. It is therefore very important to give priority to which measures should be implemented first. This is primarily a task for regional health enterprises, which together have to assess both needs and treatment capacity. Akershu County began planning a new Follo Hospital in the mid-1990s. Later, the planning of New SiA, now New Ahus, started in parallel with the Follo hospital. In the acquisition of ownership of hospitals, responsibility for the further design and realisation of hospital projects was added to Health East, which is now revising the Main Function Programme for New Aarhus with a view to reducing the total costs. My ambition, as previously announced by Stortinget, is to present this question in the consideration of the revised national budget in the current session. In addition to the plans for New Aarhus, Health East is now investigating a «Overall plan for major development projects». Here, one looks at the extent to which there is a need to build new and replace existing hospitals, to repair and modernise the building stock – just in order to meet the development of a future demand for specialist health services. When this investigation is available, it will be possible to decide on the construction of a new hospital in Follo. I feel confident that the need for health care is well cared for, and that Health East is conscious of its responsibility. A planning and notification system is in place between the regional health establishments and the ministry under the Health Enterprise Act § 34. In this context, the Ministry of Health will consider significant changes in structure and service provision. I would therefore like to have both an overview of how the service provision is designed and the possibility to intervene and to give notice of correction if the offer does not meet overall health policy objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e794	My question to the Minister of Health specifically focused on how he would follow up the decision to build the Follo Hospital. It was not answered in concrete terms. We have become accustomed to the fact that the Minister of Health does not respond to specific questions about health policy, mainly because the majority of the population have chosen a form of management for hospitals which means that the Minister of Health has very little influence on the very design of hospital policy. But it is usually possible for the Minister of Health to have an attitude, and therefore I will follow up on asking quite concretely: What is the position of the Council of State on the construction of the Follo Hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e799	I have to take note that the Central Party and the Central Party's intrusive leader will not take on board the fact that the Stortinget has actually adopted a hospital reform that involves a division of responsibilities. In the form of legislation, the size of the population has placed responsibility on regional health enterprises, among other things. in these areas. It does not imply, as Haga’s representative now claims, that the Government and the Storting have been deprived of influence over health policy. On the contrary, it means that the overall health policy leadership is provided by the Stortinget and the Government, and is implemented in the governance set out in the Health Business Act. It is not that I did not answer the specific question asked by the representative Haga. On the contrary. I said that the question of the Follo hospital was now investigated by those who have been given responsibility by Stortinget for this, and that the question will be settled when that investigation is available. And that's the answer to the specific question.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e811	Now there are major changes in Health-Norway, which include: In reality, local hospitals are often drained to hospitals or health centres, and the local population is deprived of the possibility of influencing the hospital facilities where they live. My question to the Council of State, also on the basis of what he answered my previous question, is this: Is it satisfactory for the Minister of Health that there are such major changes in Health-Norway as it is now doing, without the Council of State having a significant opportunity to influence that development? My question is also about the ambitions of the Minister of Health for political governance in the health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e816	I have to ask that the representative Haga stick to the facts. No decision has been taken on the conversion of local hospitals diluting them into hospitals. There are no such decisions. There is now a comprehensive review of the whole structure of hospital services because the Stortinget has provided for this to be done through the requirements for improving efficiency and through the reorganisation of the healthcare adopted. Nor is it true that the local population is deprived of any opportunity to influence this. Public meetings, torches, signature actions and communication are taking place at many levels between hospital services and the local population and local political bodies. And it should, that's good for democracy. The overall political governance has been added by Stortinget to the Minister of Health. I can assure you that as the owner of the regional health care companies, I have the clear ambition that large, extensive or radical changes in health care in the counties, such as: The closure of a hospital will be – if it is proposed – going to end up on my table and be dealt with politically.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e826	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Development: ‘25. February d.o.b. the requirements of the EU in WTO service negotiations became known through a leakage from the Canadian Polaris Institute. The EU demands liberalisation to 94 developing countries. This concerns the opening up of vital sectors to the development of an autonomous and sustainable economy, such as banking, water supply and energy. The requirements are mainly promoted in areas where the EU has market-leading companies. Is this a form of development policy supported by Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e835	I do not think it is right to comment on the EU's requirements for developing countries. Norway has not been given access to the EU’s adopted requirements. What I am concerned about is what profile Norway has had in presenting proposals and demands to developing countries, and how this is related to Norwegian development policy. And I'm going to focus on that. Promoting trade and business development is an important part of Norwegian development policy. The majority of WTO member countries are developing countries. Developing countries are also increasingly active in the WTO and want to increase their share of world trade. Fair and efficient services, e.g.: transport is an important input for the export of goods. Therefore, countries exporting goods, many of which are developing countries, also have interests in service negotiations. Norway has generally not imposed normal negotiating requirements on developing countries, but instead has its own proposals where we invite to contact and cooperate in the areas of negotiation proposed. This has been an approach that has been well received by the developing countries with which we have so far had bilateral talks on the proposals. The Norwegian proposals are intended, inter alia, to: to actively seek to include poor countries in the negotiation process. Let me stress – and this is important – that the bilateral negotiating requirements reflect the expectations and wishes of the countries in the negotiations. However, it is up to each developing country to assess for itself whether it will meet the requirements and what any obligations it will assume.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e848	I thank you for your answer. As the Minister for Development is aware, the Stortinget has not been given access to the Norwegian requests in the first rounds of the GATS negotiations, so it is difficult to ask specific questions about it. However, one must assume that both EU requirements and Norway’s requirements will affect a number of laws that currently protect local business in the developing world. In the nation on 4 January this year, the Secretary of State of the Minister for Development says: ‘Norway may take a different view of developing developing countries than the countries themselves.’ At the same time, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ web pages state that Norway’s bilateral proposals in the GATS negotiations reflect the main Norwegian export interests in the world market for services. Which of these two perspectives is the basis for Norway's requirements? Is it the development interests that are most important, or is it, as stated on the U.D.'s website, Norwegian export interests that take precedence?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e864	The government's positions in the WTO negotiations are anchored in the Storting. In dealing with these negotiating positions, the Stortinget has agreed that we should take strong account of the development interests of the negotiations in general, while, of course, as all countries, taking account of our own interests, the so-called offensive interests and defensive interests. This is rooted in the attitude of the majority of the population. With regard to the details of this, the representative is well aware that we are obliged by the traditions of the WTO in this area, and should therefore not publish the course we are putting into the negotiations at present. However, let me stress that, in relation to developing countries, it is clear that no matter what we may think, developing countries themselves are the ones who decide. In the field of services, it is up to their own assessment whether they will at all deal with the requirements being imposed, whether or not they seem at all relevant, and whether or not they are interested in taking on any commitments at all. This is up to each country. Here you are the sovereign to make your own decision and to deal with any demands that may be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e873	I'd like to arrest you the last time. It is known that Norway has addressed requirements in excess of 30 developing countries, the EU to 94 and the United States to a similar number. The Minister of Development is not at all concerned that the sum of this will be a considerable pressure on developing countries to open up sectors that they may not initially want to open, especially if these negotiations are linked to other negotiations, such as the United States. market access in relation to agricultural negotiations? Is not the Minister concerned that Norway, with its demands, is contributing to a pressure that the EU and the United States are building for a liberalisation that it may not initially want? And is it, in the opinion of the Minister for Development, that liberalisation is generally good for developing countries, or is it the sectors that the Minister for Development believes Norway should give the developing countries the opportunity to protect themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e878	I'm not so concerned about what I think developing countries have the greatest pleasure of. In my opinion, developing countries' own assessments are the most important in this context. I'll take that into account. As I indicated in my reply, Norway has generally not imposed normal negotiating requirements on developing countries, but instead invited to contact and cooperation in the areas of negotiation proposed. So we're going to take a different approach. This has been an approach that has been well received by the developing countries themselves, and that is what we must base. With regard to possible pressures on developing countries, it is very important to note that the GATS states that in this area, which in other areas has the right to make its own regulations in order to meet national and political objectives, they are not obliged to privatise or launch competition. It is not even a topic for the negotiations. So developing countries themselves can make this happen and decide whether they want to take these negotiating requirements seriously or not. And in my opinion, they have full rights and opportunities to do so, and Norway will support that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e889	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘Both Government and the bulk of the population have repeatedly claimed to be committed to the development of small-scale power plants in Norway. In addition, the winter power crisis has shown the need for increased power generation. According to Stavanger Aftenblad, February 18th. landowners in Frafjord are refused to build mini-power plants in a stream running into Frafjord River. What will the Council of State now do to enable this and other similar projects to be realised in such a way that the objectives of the Government and the Grand Duchy are followed up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e898	In order to contribute to power discovery and industrial development in districts, the Government is committed to facilitating the development of small-scale power plants. As a general rule, such installations involve small conflicts with environmental interests. About 330 watercourses are currently protected by watercourses according to Protection Plans I to IV. The size has decided not to grant concessions to any small or large power build-up in sheltered watercourses. In assessing whether a planned power plant triggers a concession obligation, the impact of the measure on the general interest of the watercourse is crucial. Where the watercourse is protected, special consideration shall be given to the protection interests. Nevertheless, there are projects which produce such minor effects in the sheltered watercourse that they do not trigger a concession obligation. Such power plants will be permitted in sheltered watercourses. The planned expansion in Frafjord, to which the representative Mr Vaksdal refers, was submitted to the NVE in 1996. The power plant is located between the Giljastølsvatnet and Frafjorden, which is part of the watercourse protection plan. The NVE concluded that the effects of the power plant on the general interest resulted in a concession obligation. Since, therefore, there is no possibility of granting concessions for power development in sheltered watercourses, the decision of the NVE was in fact also a refusal to grant a concession application. It has been decided that the protection plan for watercourses should be supplemented. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has been sent the NVE's suspension. The setting opens for the concession treatment of micro and mini-power plants in sheltered watercourses. The reason for the proposal is that concession treatment will provide a better basis for assessing the environmental impact of the measure in a protected watercourse than the current system, where it is essential to trigger the concession obligation. There are many good reasons to equate the construction of micro and mini-power plants with other types of sheltered watercourse measures that can be granted concession. The Government will therefore address this issue in the proposition expected to be submitted at the turn of the year to supplement the watercourse protection plan. A prerequisite for allowing such expansions in sheltered watercourses must be that we do not impair the protection values of the watercourse. I would like to stress that the NVE has been delegated the competence to take decisions relating to power plants with installed power up to 5 MW. Furthermore, in the proposal for amendments to watercourse legislation, which is now being consulted, it is proposed to raise the scope of the concession obligation under the Industrial Concession Act. Together with the proposal to provide for the concession treatment of mini- and micro-power plants in sheltered watercourses, this measure facilitates the establishment of small-scale power plants around the country for the benefit of power generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e911	I thank the Council of State for the answer. At least it was positive that we now have proposals to raise the limits of the concession obligation. It has been claimed that we have a potential of maybe 10 to 15 TWh in the construction of small power plants in Norway, and this is about twice what we lack in the domestic market in a so-called normal year, according to the government's own figures. At the same time, there has been talk and talk about using more of our streams and rivers for power generation, but unfortunately too little has been done. Doesn't the Council of State see that now more action and less talk are needed to get these sensible projects started as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e922	I can't vouch for that number of representatives now mentioned, between 10 and 15 TWh, but it's undoubtedly an interesting potential to take out. Apart from the fact that these small power plants, micro and mini-power plants, can contribute to useful additional power generation for the electricity grid, they will also represent significant and interesting additional revenues for farmers and other property owners in the districts. In other words, it is also good district policy to invest further in such power plants. It is therefore an interesting challenge to find a regulatory framework and a balance between environmental considerations that facilitates the construction of such power plants. I have seen several such power plants in the districts, and I think it is done in a nominal and good way and in line with the strict requirements that we should set for environmental protection and nature protection, so I actually see great and positive opportunities for increased efforts in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e927	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Today, the authorities are responsible for the power recovery and concessions to new capacity. The overall plan has not worked satisfactorily and the Stortinget has previously called for more effective concessional treatment. The fact that energy authorities are responsible for the protection of watercourses through the NVE and the environmental authorities through the Directorate for Nature Management, which is responsible for the overall plan, seems to be inconvenient. Will the Council of State take initiatives to clean this up, so that we can increase power deployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e936	There are no plans for any other procedure or transfer of tasks or authority from one body to another. But I would like to stress that it must be the same legislation, the same policy, which must be consistent with the various bodies dealing with these applications – I attach great importance to it. And the cooperation between the Directorate of Nature Management, the NVE, the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy is thus excellent. I think that we should be able to establish a sensible policy, which is not dependent on a particular organisation, but on the fact that all parties see their responsibilities and use the same attitude and principles during the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e947	I would like to ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘Many fathers have been unjustly sentenced to fatherhood. Many, however, are not sentenced to danger but only to compulsory contributions. These fall to a large extent between two chairs since § 62 of the Children's Act only deals with convicted fathers. Does not the Council of State consider it reasonable that even those who have been sentenced to only contributions should be treated under the same statutory scheme, i.e. § 62 of the Children's Act, concerning the reimbursement of child contributions?»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e956	The crucial argument for introducing the possibility of resuming phasies that were decided before the DNA analysis could provide a safe answer to the hazard question was the children’s need for knowledge of their biological origin and the fathers’ need to know whether the children are their biological offspring. Before 1956, the legislation allowed a man who could be the father of a child to be required to pay contributions. So there were some men who were sentenced to contributions even though there was not enough evidence that they were fathers. These matters are all very old – the youngest children are now at the end of the 40s. The relationship between existing legal and old legislation is unclear on some points. The Ministry will need some more time to look at the issues raised by the representative Sandberg. For the treatment of Ot.prp. No 93 for 2001-2002 in December last year the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs asked the Government to assess the impact of introducing index regulation or the calculation of interest on the repayment of child contributions from population rights. I find it natural to see these two issues in context. I want to assess whether there is a need to extend the scope of Section 62 of the Children's Act and will return to Stortinget with any legislative amendments.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e964	I'm very glad that the answer I get here from the Council is so positive. As the Council of State points out, many have previously been sentenced to contributions to a child, but not to fatherhood. This was almost common in the 1920s, 1930s, 1940s and 1950s. In order to be sentenced to contributions, it had to be very likely that you were the father of the child. In order not to burden the public, it was also very important to get someone who could pay a contribution to the child. As the Council of State says, the wording of Section 62 of these victims is not respected, and the law must be amended here. The council itself is well aware of many examples from the recent press and the media, and especially the case around Einar Monan, a 91-year-old man who has actually fought for ten years to be kind of acquitted from that he has paid contributions to a child to whom he is not the father. Not only about the individual, but also about the family in general, it becomes a mental strain that I hope the Council of State will take into account when the Government now assesses law change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e973	I just have to make it clear that the very thing about fathership was not really about economics, but about knowing who father was of the child, maybe that father would know if he was father of the child. This case now being raised applies in a way to the refund of contributions, and it was not included in the amendment of the law adopted in Stortinget. What's interesting here is the question of whether it's possible to resume a grant case before 1956. The answer is probably that such a case will be obsolete. And that makes the question that the representative is asking here today, relevant. Once again, I just want to say that I am going to go into this matter and consider whether we are actually going to come back with a proposal for a change of law. I will not foreshadow the result, but I will come back to Stortinget with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e982	Now I'm a little bit in doubt again. After the positive first answer, the answer I got now was a little doubtful. What's important about the old cases is the change that happened in 1956. And we don't have to get into the situation that the state relieves itself of being responsible for the cases from before 1956. One thing is to be convicted of a danger unjustly. Another thing is that the children who are in such a situation may experience losing their father. So there are many aspects of this matter that the state is responsible for. I refer to both Section 5 and Section 6 of the Children's Act, which specifies that the state is responsible for finding the right biological parents of the children. Now we experience that children in their 30s, 40s and 50s are told that they have lost their father because we have introduced DNA testing. There'll be more and more images of what's going to happen in the future. Many, many more of these things will happen gradually, and then it's important that the state is conscious of its responsibility both in terms of the question of compensation and in relation to the children who lose their biological father.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e991	I think we agree on the facts of the matter. As I said in my first post, we will come back to the matter. We're going to go positive into it and see how this can possibly be done by the state. As I was inside, there's a lot of ambiguity in the law. It'll take some time before I get back, but it's natural to see this in the context of the second question that Stortinget raised, because it's also about economics. If that is desirable, in this process I would like to inform the representative of where the matter is.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1002	I will ask the Minister for Education and Research the following questions: ‘The size has decided that the system of landlines should be maintained. It is important that country lines, in the same way as county education services, adapt to demand and society’s needs for skills. There is a broad political consensus on increased investment in the real world. The Council of State will use national lines to increase supply in priority disciplines, for example: by increasing the educational capacity of the Andøy High School space technology line?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1011	I agree that it is important that, in the same way that county education services need to adapt to demand and the needs of society for skills. I would therefore like to assess whether there can be a basis for reallocation of landline sites. As I see it, it must be primarily search and capacity utilisation at the lines that provide the basis for any increase or reduction of the landline sites. The county councils have been informed in annual circulars that where there is a significant difference between national and capacity utilisation, the department may change the capacity of the offer from the next school year. In some cases, the capacity has also been somewhat reduced. I would also like to point out that the county councils, in order to provide a number of training offers, have established cooperation on the purchase and sale of student places. These offers are designated as nationwide lines. The system of land-wide lines has many similarities with the land-line system. Both include courses in subjects for which there is no basis for establishing in all counties and which are open to students from all over the country. Through the system of nationwide lines, county municipalities demonstrate the ability and willingness to find interconnected and flexible solutions. This is a cooperation I would encourage. As far as the real subjects are concerned, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Education and Research has drawn up a five-year action plan to reverse negative developments. The main objective of the strategy is to improve the quality of real-time training at all stages, both in initial and higher education and in research. The background to the national initiative is the lack of competence and intermediate results in real-time primary education, the low level of compulsory secondary mathematics education and the low level of real-time competence of early students. The strategy shall contribute to an overall perspective in the field of real-life education from kindergarten to higher education and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1020	I thank you for your answer. I agree with the Council of State that it is important to stimulate nationwide offers. It's a good arrangement. The Council of State and I have previously agreed that the nationwide offers are likely to be a better arrangement than the national routes. But that case is currently lost. Anyway, it's important that one stimulates that very thing. In addition, I would like to pay tribute to the county councils, because they are quite good at adapting the offer to the need and turning around quite quickly. It can't always say about the nationwide lines, which have become reasonably rigid, reasonably permanent, and there has not been enough flexibility in the offer. As long as we have the landlines, it is important that the Council of State goes in and takes responsibility to ensure that there is consistency between what we offer within the landlines and the demand that is there. So doing a lot of grip in relation to these I think is important. I understand the Council's answer to that, as well, that she will take this into account. After all, we're spending almost 150 million. kr on landlines. Can the Council confirm that she will go in and assess the offer and adapt it to demand?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1031	I can confirm that I agree with the description of the representative, that the nationwide offers are a better arrangement than the country lines. It is also a fact that the landlines have been decided to exist, but that they tend to get a little stiff and rigid, because they do not have their background in the strategic priorities of county communities. My answer is positive. It is a little reserved, as I do not hide that the experience of political treatment, among other things. In this house, there can be indications that repriorities are difficult, while there is no objective either for the representative of Reikham or for me in general to extend the system of landlines very much, as we are actually supporting a system of nationwide offers. Nevertheless, I believe that the point from the representative of Rikvam is important. I will try to see if it is possible to make such adjustments as the requester is concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1038	I thank you for your answer. I want to move on to the second part of my question, which is that of Andøy High School. This is an offer that is closest to what we can define as a landline. They're mostly recruiting from all over the country. This offer is very special, and that's probably the only offer we have in the country right here. We know that demand is high. It's a search. The offer does not meet the need. In addition, we know that this is an offer that goes into the middle of what is the bet area in relation to the real subjects. My specific question to the Council of State will then be: Will the Council of State from the next school year try to facilitate the school's ability to increase its capacity to record, preferably in the event of redistribution, and will she, in the worst case, if that wrong happens that we don't get it, see if extra funds can be found? These are relatively few places and not dramatic costs. There was a specific question about this special school with this special offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1047	In line with my general answer, and in particular because it is consistent with our real-time questioning, I will confirm that I will also assess it. If the demand for this particular education offer is increasing, and this is an expression of increased real-life interest in young people, I believe, like the representative Rikham, that it is important to look for solutions that allow for the expansion of the number of student places. I would then seek to get it done by re-prioritizing. Of course, if it does not succeed, there is a theoretical possibility that it can be achieved through the introduction of fresh resources into the landline system. But here I can't promise anything, because it belongs to the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1063	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1069	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘A number of Norwegian enterprises have received and received loans and grants, including: from the SND to repatriate and secure existing jobs. Nevertheless, «flags» mean more and more enterprises out of all or part of their production and add parts of their production to low-cost land. Will the Council of State ensure that its borrowing and grant schemes only contribute to job security in Norway and ensure that the conditions for obtaining State funds do not lead to a unilateral outsourcing of jobs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1078	An internationally competitive business is necessary to ensure value creation in Norway. International competition strengthens enterprises and makes the Norwegian economy more efficient. Globalisation offers opportunities to organise production and logistics in new ways. Norwegian enterprises can take advantage of these opportunities to ensure future profitability, including: by shifting labour-intensive production to countries with a lower wage level. In shipbuilding, we see, for example: that the hull construction is now mainly – almost exclusively – carried out abroad, while the equipment of the ships takes place in Norway. At the same time, we have a relatively high share of the world’s ship’s equipment production. By adding parts of the production to other countries, high-tech and knowledge-intensive production can be maintained and developed in Norway. This form of international division of labour has become increasingly important. The government attaches great importance to creating good and stable framework conditions, so that the level of taxation and interest rate and currency conditions make Norway an attractive country to operate in for both Norwegian and foreign enterprises. At the end of March, the Government will present a case to the Storting on the direct commercial instruments. The focus here will be on innovation and innovation and the internationalisation of business. As part of this, the active substances shall contribute to, inter alia: increased exports, investments and expansion in international markets, increased research cooperation and technology transfer. Work in the field of internationalisation is very broad and involves many actors. Some public instruments have been established to promote business cooperation between Norway and other countries. Such instruments should continue to be an element of the internationalisation of Norwegian business and the establishment of business in selected countries. I would like to assume in the review of the instrument that there will be an interaction between activities in Norway and those established in other countries. In my opinion, it is not a public task to contribute to the relocation of companies from Norway. It is not acceptable that state funds stimulate the closure of profitable jobs in Norway and weaken the competitive situation of those who choose to remain and continue to invest in Norway. This means that State instruments will not be used for unilateral deflagration of jobs. In concrete terms, I have announced that SIVA’s involvement in commercial parks in the Baltic region will be phased out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1087	The last part of the Council of State's response, where he says that it is not acceptable that government funds should be used for unilateral relocation of jobs, I interpret positively. And the Council of State is well aware that many companies in Norway are struggling to survive, that the number of bankruptcies is increasing, and that we now have an unemployment rate that rises every day. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Council of State whether, when he is about to present the notified notification in March, he will look at the instrument, in such a way that he can possibly cut off the international support schemes and/or make demands and conditions that help or use the country’s money for outsourcing – also where there is talk of only part of the production being outsourced – should not go beyond jobs in Norway. Would the Council consider such a strict condition?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1094	Firstly, as the representative says, we are facing a situation where we have to expect that unemployment can still increase. We are in an international recession, and it also affects Norwegian business. The arrangements we have had relating to foreign establishments were established in the early or mid-1990s – there are two schemes. One, in relation to SIVA, is mentioned. The second is an East European fund of 120 million. kr that invest in individual holdings. As I said, I want to wind up these schemes, at least in the candidate countries of the EU, not least in relation to the distortion of competition. With regard to the other conditions to assist Norwegian business at home, I believe that we have to follow the general principles that we have laid down, but we will not contribute to the relocation of jobs in any context.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1103	Just one observation: I share the views of the Council of State, which I interpret as meaning that he does not see any sense in the fact that state schemes should go to flagging out, and not to the maintenance of the establishment in Norway. Once he has notified this in the message that is coming, I get to wait and see if it contains the positive elements that the Council of State has now prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1108	It will be done in formulations and wordings that will not be possible to misunderstand. Just a little correction: it's a proposition we're making, so that the Storting can quickly take a stand on these things, and so that we can implement very quickly the main steps that we want to do. Through the budget for the autumn we take – I kept saying – the details. The size will then be able to respond to the main actions, and the main action related to this will be the winding-up of direct support to move jobs out of the country. But, of course, it will still be the case that some companies will find it useful to add parts of their output to other countries. We just have to recognize that is part of the picture. What is important is to ensure that the head office, development, market department and such things can remain in Norway, and that we do not help out the entire business. But not least, this with distortions of competition is very important, and that we primarily assist those who choose to establish and operate in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1119	I have the following questions for the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade: ‘It has been claimed that the state investment company Argentum AS’s high return requirements result in the unrealistic use of funds such as the creation of Argentum. What is the Council of State's view of this?'
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1128	The establishment of the investment company Argentum Funding Investments AS focused on the following objectives: strengthening the competitiveness of Norwegian business and the future creation of value-added opportunities in industries and business clusters where Norway is already strongly mobilised in private capital to invest in innovative and research-based business to build valuable networks between owners, managers, R & D environments and businesses In the opinion on the organisation of the investment company, the majority of the Committee concluded that Argentum ‘shall act as a professional owner who, on a commercial basis, shall play a central role in the development of the most relevant areas for the establishment of the investment funds’. The Argentum return requirement is at risk-free interest rate plus 10 percentage points. This requirement was based on a comparison with commercial investors. The return requirement reflects the need for Argentum to participate in funds investing in high-risk companies. A success project must have such an economy that it can cover losses on other projects and contribute to a satisfactory return on the entire portfolio, taking into account the risk. Through the commercial return requirement and competent management, Argentum creates market credibility. This can in itself make investors willing to invest more in the funds into which Argentum goes. The competence of the company and the commercial conditions also have an impact on the company’s ability to contribute to the establishment of good management environments in Norway. This was a main score in St.meld. No 38 for 2000-2001, on the organisation of investment companies, where it was noted that: ‘the most limiting factor in equity markets is not access to projects or capital, but access to good management environments’. The access to capital to risk projects is now less than it was at the time of notification, but access to good management environments remains a limiting factor. Argentum works actively to build skills in the environment to make them more attractive to both domestic and foreign investors. Building such competences among the management environments will necessarily take some time. Argentum has so far invested in three venture funds, Energy Growth, Northzone IV and Teknoinvest VIII, on a total of approx. 680 million. kr. These funds have the following fields of activity: energy, ICT and health, medicine and biotechnology. This is within the designated investment areas of Argentum. The company's objective is to invest for approx. 1 billion in 2003, including in one marine fund. In this context, I believe that Argentum is on its way to meeting the goals set for the company of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1164	Of course, the state's money will have to be managed in a way that also creates values for the state. Nevertheless, this problem has two sides. One is whether it is actually such that the return requirement that has been set seems to counteract the other wishes or objectives of the fund, and the other is whether the Council of State would like to do something about it. As far as I understand, he is satisfied with today's situation. The signal I've been given is that, in spite of the biggest tax burden, it's no longer difficult today to obtain the necessary new private capital. There is therefore a need for the government tools we have. One of the aims of the state shooting money into Argentina was to increase the availability of venture capital. The market feedback is that the risk is too high today, and therefore capital is not available for good projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1169	What I'm saying is that I'm satisfied with the implementation that Argentum Fund Investment AS has made, given the premises that were made by Stortinget. As far as I can see, you have adhered to all the constraints that were put there. Whether or not the restrictions that were imposed should also be those that will apply in the future, we may need to consider, because it is clear that times are changing, both up and down. The possibility of access to capital — and to the extent of risk — changes over time, and that means that, of course, returns requirements other than those set can be set. There is a possible assessment to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1176	I interpret the Council of States so that this is not high on his agenda. However, I would like to ask him whether the Stortinget will have a new opportunity to assess these different returns requirements when he is going to present the instrument message, so that the Stortinget will also be able to reconsider what has been said in connection with the creation of this company.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1181	In the proposition we're going to promote for the Storting in terms of the entire instrument, Argentum will also be mentioned. I understand the representative, who is also the head of the Business Committee, to the point where he wants to assess whether the return requirement that was set is the one that should apply in the future. I will definitely make such an assessment and report back in the case of the Stortinget within the time frame currently in existence, so that the Committee can assess it when the Storing should rebalance the current situation with what was current and make the assessments that they might find useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1188	Then we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1195	This question, from the representative of Karita Bekkemelm Orheim to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1198	I have asked the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘An increasing amount of child pornography material is still being reported on the Internet. This is usually a network of differentiations in many countries. There is a growing tendency for images, drawings and text to represent children as sexual objects, even though the images do not show abuse. In the case of penalties for publishing such material, there are now mild judges. What does the Government do to capture all forms of deliberate child pornography?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1207	Combating sexual abuse, including child pornography, is – and should be – a priority area for police. Child pornography is, in many cases, also a filmed assault on defenceless children. It's important to be able to hit all kinds of conscious perception with child pornography. For this reason, the Minister of Justice has proposed that the criminal framework for organised possession of child pornography be increased from two to four years, and the issue of penalties in this area will be included in the preparation of new criminal law. In this context, the Minister of Justice will also assess the feasibility of better lawmaking, which can meet the technical challenges facing child pornography on the Internet, and whether it can be possible to capture gaps that remain in the law. Among other things, it seems quite possible today to surf around and look at child pornographic material intentionally, without paying and without storing it on the hard drive. This helps to maintain a market through the production and distribution of child pornography. In the case of Kripos, reception is established for the handling of tips on child pornography. Tips are received by phone and e-mail. Kripos processes the tips and sends information to the right police district, which follows up the tips. If the tips relate to websites in other countries, the information is sent to the police authorities in the respective countries. Police in Norway cooperate with colleagues internationally with a view to finding distributors of the material and thus revealing and, where appropriate, helping the victims. In order to combat sexual abuse of children more effectively, it is necessary for the police to constantly update their competences, both on moral crime and on ICT crime. Kripos has also developed a good top expertise in the detection and investigation of sexual assaults against children. Furthermore, the Police Data Crime Centre under Ecocrime possesses technical competence for the investigation of images on the Internet and analytical tools for use in electronic seizures. The police data crimping centre is now developing a new data service in terms of data seizures in this type of crime. The service is developed in close cooperation with Kripos. In addition, businesses themselves must take greater responsibility for combating the distribution of child pornography. This applies in particular to the different network providers that transmit digital images over the Internet and payment card companies that charge for the purchase of images over the network. Yesterday the Minister of Justice met with these two sectors and representatives from other departments concerned, discussing how to address this challenge. Examples of this may be more active in filtering unwanted services and in working closely with the police on further criminal prosecution of child pornography.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1222	First, I want to thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. The Council of State pointed out in its response that it is very important that the police have competence and are constantly being updated, so that they are on high and are able to investigate these difficult issues in the best possible way. My first supplementary question is about what resources Kripos will get, and what resources Kripos has today to keep track of the explosion we are now seeing in the number of Internet users and the corresponding increase in the spread of images of sexual abuse against children. This is in many ways something new that has come after we got the Internet. The question is whether the police are able to keep track of all the new tasks they are assigned to us politicians. We have heard about Barne-Kripos, and I ask a specific question: Where is it going to be by Barne-Kripos? Is that it? And what does that really mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1233	As I said in my answer, what concerns child pornography work is a priority task for the police. Similarly, regular follow-up and further training courses on various aspects of the investigation and prosecution of sexual offences have been conducted at the Police College in the last decade. ICT crime courses, which are an important part of awareness raising in child pornography, are also organised. That means that training is very important, and it's actively working on it. Furthermore, the Police Data Crime Centre under Ecocrime possesses technical competence for the investigation of images on the Internet and analytical tools for use in electronic seizures. This is an important effort, and it is technically committed to this. In the case of Barne-Kripos, I will pass that demand on to the Minister of Justice. My answer to this problem in general is that it is actively working in a broad area.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1240	The penalty scheme is also very important in this matter. As far as I am aware, the penalties for child pornography are so low that the police do not actually have the opportunity to use the same methods of investigation as in serious drug cases, which have a penalty framework of ten years. This means that methods such as delayed notification by means of search, electronic tracing and communication control, which the police were given the opportunity to use through the provision that came on 3 December 1999, could have led to a much better investigation into child pornography, but is currently not feasible. Could it be, then, an idea for the Government to make exemptions for the investigation of child pornography or to increase the penalties even more? We know that the Council of State is going in to increase the penalties to four years. We know that the EU has a proposal for an extension of five years, and I want to ask the Council of State: why have we come to just four years? Why do we not at least follow the line that the European Union has with proposals for a five-year penalty framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1247	Here I felt that there were many questions. It could have been interesting to go to the depths of many of them. First of all, I fully agree that the penal framework should be increased, and that is what we are working on, even in a larger legal context. There's a lot of ways to expose child pornography, and what the government is concerned about is that we're going to go into all of those areas. Research is one area in which we are, of course, concerned. But we are also concerned that all the actors in society must be involved and contribute, for here there are very many who are actually and in practice affected by this, not least as I was inside, those who are responsible for the telecommunications network in Norway. But it's important that they participate and help to reveal this, and that they see a responsibility here. As I experience the industry, they are interested in being involved and contributing to solving this societal problem. The President: we go to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1260	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The Governing Board of the NSB’s Mantena maintenance company proposed on 13 February d.o.b. moving the maintenance of 9 out of 26 trainsets from Skien to the NSB workshop in Lodalen, Oslo. However, the group manager of the NSB Einar Enger wrote in the telemarket newspapers of 7 November 2002: ‘The ski resort has full activity in our budgets for 2003’. The Council of State sees it as good district policy to bring together all the maintenance of train sets in Lodalen, Oslo, and what will the Council of State do to save the shop in Skien, which cost 300 million. in 1997?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1269	I would like to point out that the NSB is organised as a share company. The organisation of the workshop structure of the company is a support function for which it is up to the board of directors to decide on changes. This was determined, inter alia, by: during the landfilling of St. meld. No 48 for 2000-2001, About the activities of NSA BA 2001-2003. The facility in Skien is part of the workshop structure of the NSB group and currently has 51 employees. As a result, among others: phase-in of new local trains takes 9 older train sets out of production. This has consequences for the workshop in the Ski, which from the summer reduces crews by about 10 years. The maintenance of the remaining older vehicle sets is moved from Skien to Oslo. In Lodalen, the maintenance can be carried out at daytime, unlike in the Ski, where the same trains can only be maintained at night and evening. Maintenance is a major cost in the operation of trains and it is essential for the competitiveness of the train in relation, inter alia, to: the private car. The post-movement cost may be reduced by 1 million. kr per. years because NSB saves the evening and night supplements. The NSB’s long-term strategy has been based on the fact that the workshop in the Ski should concentrate its maintenance on the intercity train sets after the earlier vehicle sets have been phased out. The NSB does not have any concrete plans to change this, but it is currently assessing the future workshop structure as a whole. Employee organisations are involved in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1280	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I want to remind you that it's been five years since an investment of 300 million was made. kr to get a top modern workshop in place. The council says that you have conversations with the employees, but it's actually not just the employees who perceive that there is a down-priority of the NSB in this important area. We see that travellers choose buses over the railways as a result of a poorer rail service. My question is: isn't the Council of State concerned about the negative development of the railway, which I experience is in stark contrast to the objective of the national transport plan for more environmentally friendly transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1290	It is quite correct that I am concerned that people should travel by train. That means we have to have good rail offers around the country. That means that the NSB has to operate as rationally as possible. That's why I'm concerned that the NSB, through the board, should be able to make decisions that make the operation of the business more profitable, and that they can offer good services to the travellers. In this way, we can achieve the overall objectives of rail transport in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1295	Governments mention the profitability requirements. NSB has been converted into an AS, and in a way, much of the government over the NSB has moved away from the state council and into the board. I would like to ask questions as to whether there are nothing other than profitability requirements that should form the basis for how a chooser is to bet on such an important infrastructure as the railway is in our country. I guess the state council also knows that the railway has an important function, I hope she will say, and that not the profitability concept is going to control what the railway is doing, fully.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1302	When we spend NOK 1.4 billion on the purchase of services at the NSB, it's because we believe that rail transport is important. This is a significant amount. That means that we give very high priority to the railway. It's an environmentally friendly form of transport that I want people to use. But when we actually spend $1.4 billion, we're assuming that NSB is going to operate as efficiently as possible. So they're going to get $1.4 billion for the purchase of business-unprofitable services. But they're profitable from a wider social perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1311	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The railway authorities of the Member States strongly criticise the NSB because of: lack of safety when Swedish trains with Swedish personnel operate Norwegian rails, among others. on Kongsvingerbanen. Is the Council of State aware of this, and what will the Council of State do to ensure that security is optimal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1320	The State Railway Authority is empowered to ensure that safety is ensured under the Railway Act. I am aware that the supervision has carried out an audit of the NSB AS" ensuring road safety in cooperative formations. This applies to cross-border traffic, where the NSB is responsible for the activity on the Norwegian side. A report has been drawn up demonstrating that the safety management of the cooperation projects is deficient under the requirements of the Railway Act. I would like to stress that as long as the NSB is responsible for the cross-border traffic, I assume that the company takes this responsibility. This means that the NSB needs to improve its control over the adequacy of safety. As a follow-up to the findings identified, the oversight shall be subject to the transmission by the NSB of a corrective action plan by 1 April 2003. I therefore assume that the NSB is taking the necessary measures to correct the non-conformities identified by the oversight and that a plan has been drawn up for this purpose by 1 April, as foreseen by the oversight.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1327	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which shows that the Council of State is aware of the problems that are – and hopefully there will be no more in retrospect. There have been cases of near-accidents where Swedish trains have driven in red – so it has not been green. Whether there's human things that have caused it, whether it's the training that's deficient, or whether there's other things, I shouldn't say so much about. It seems that training may be somewhat deficient compared to that in Norway. It would be thought that to run Norwegian rails there should be the same training, with the same requirements, regardless of who runs them. I would like to state that I am absolutely not against the fact that foreign trains use Norwegian rails, with people from nations other than Norway, of course, but it is about the safety and security of the travellers.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1336	I am concerned about safety, and I am pleased that others are also concerned about safety both by road and by rail – and in the air for that matter. In the case of the railway, supervision has gone through the conditions as they are. It is independent supervision, which will give signals to the actors concerned about the state of the situation and ask for action to be implemented. It's done. I would also like to remind you that both the NSB and the Railway Agency are responsible for the safety of their respective areas in Norway, and it is of course that if we have cross-border traffic, it is not the flag that hangs on the rolling stock that matters to us, but that safety is well taken care of. This work is in progress, and it is going to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1345	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Finally, I would like to ask again whether the Council of State will pursue the matter, i.e. follow what happens after 1 April 2003, so that the safety of the drivers is good, i.e. better than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1355	It's very easy to answer. Yeah, of course I'll come with you.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1363	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘From 2001 to 2002, the number of fatalities in traffic increased from 275 to 307. In view of, inter alia: NAF has called for the establishment of an accident commission on road traffic. Such an accident commission shall be able to analyse accidents, identify facts and causalities, and propose and provide the necessary tools for accident prevention. Will the Council of State support a proposal to provide road traffic with a separate accident commission, or other schemes to monitor road traffic accidents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1372	In particular, on the basis of the Sem Declaration, a working group set up by the Ministry of Transport drew up a report on the establishment of a joint accident commission. In the report published in February 2002, the Working Party recommends that the Civil Aviation and Railway Commission be extended to include road accident investigations. At the same time, the working group recommends that details of the types of accidents and incidents to be investigated be identified. Accidents in the road sector differ significantly from accidents in other modes of transport, both in scale and in character. The results of this investigation will be available in a short time. I agree that it is important to make progress in this work and aim to establish an extended accident commission in 2004 which also includes road traffic accident investigations. Finally, I would like to point out that investigations of road traffic accidents are also being carried out today. The state road system set up in 1999 an experimental system of accident analysis groups in several counties. The accident analysis teams focus on each of their themes. For example, in Troms, accidents at meet-and-run and in Westfold, motorcycling accidents and accidents involving cross-country pedestrians are seen in densely constructed strata. The analyses contribute to a better understanding of the causes of road traffic accidents and can thus be an important tool in finding better responses.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1383	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which gives the impression that it is working on this important matter. A joint accident commission may, of course, be good for civil aviation and rail. However, when it is now suggested that this can also be extended to road traffic, there is a basis for expressing some doubt as to whether this can help to capture all the accidents that occur beyond the quite land of our roads. I fear in this situation that road traffic accidents by car can become a down-priority task. This type of accident does not have the same dramatism as, for example: an aircraft accident. Now, when the number of accidents is so increasing, this is a serious signal to us, and we have to ask ourselves, what's the cause? Are those old and traffic-threatening cars? Is there a lack of training? Is there increasing aggression in the driving pattern? Or are there bad roads? And in this context, I would like to ask myself, isn't it because of these circumstances that we need to get our own breakdown commission for a car?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1390	It is true that road traffic accidents are different in nature from both aircraft and railway accidents. But we're concerned about, because we have a zero vision, finding out the causes of the accidents and thus getting a better knowledge of how to apply the right measures. We already have, as I mentioned in my main response, analytical groups in place just to give us better knowledge. However, we do not have time to wait for a response to all the analyses. There are many complex causes of accidents. We need to grasp what we know, that there is a need for training, good attitudes, improvements to the road network, etc. All of these areas need to be addressed when we need to give priority to action on an annual basis. But we also need to have a knowledge of why the accidents happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1395	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What's my concern, and what I'm afraid of, is that in the case of road accidents, they can quickly be down-prioritised in relation to the heavy, major accidents that often happen on the railways and by aircraft. Heavy organisations such as the NAF and the Automobiles Association say that we should get on the offensive in relation to this issue. Then my question is, is it not possible to imagine that at least we could have had a sub-group that could specifically monitor road traffic conditions? That must be a reason for us to have this significant increase. I believe it is an increase that is totally unacceptable, and which I hope the Council of State understands must receive special attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1404	The special attention that's being asked for is exactly what we're grabbing here. We want to expand the Disaster Commission, because this can produce knowledge that can help us both on the railway side, on the aviation side and on the road side, despite the fact that the accidents are different in nature. I agree that we need to look at road traffic accidents, in any case, and that is why we have already started a number of groups in this area. I would also like to believe that it is quite natural to link up with the Commission's analysis groups which are still dealing with specific issues in road traffic. It's absolutely right that we need more knowledge. We have established groups, and we're going to establish more activity in this area, just to meet the need for more knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1412	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Eastfold county has decided to apply for trials with a unit state. Various signals have been given by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs as to whether such an experiment may also include the transfer of tasks from the county to the county council, with the exception of appeal and supervisory tasks. Will the Council of State approve tests of unitary status involving the transfer of tasks other than purely complaint and supervisory tasks to the county council and the strengthening of the county council's role as regional development actor in such an experiment?»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1421	In St.meld. No 19 for 2001-2002 the Government presented its recommendation on the division of tasks between State, county and municipality. The background to the assessment was the view of the Sem Declaration that the county municipality should not become an over-municipality, that changes in the division of tasks must contribute to the reduction of bureaucracy and that decisions should be taken as closely as possible. The size agreed with the Government's view of the processing of the message last year. In concrete terms, the Communication stated that responsibility for the state regional environmental and agricultural management of the county should not be transferred to the county municipality as proposed by the previous government, precisely because this would give the county municipality such an undesirable over-municipal role. Instead, it was suggested that tasks in the fields of environmental protection and agriculture that require local public discretion should be transferred to the municipalities. The size also agreed to open up two types of trials: trials with municipal task differentiation and trials with unit states. In my view, the prerequisites for testing the unit state in St.meld are sufficiently clear. No 19th@item: These assumptions are also repeated in letters of invitation and in the feedback to applicants during the first round of applications. I can't see that the department has given various signals about this, as the questioner claims. Unitary status means the aggregation of the county office and the county administration under a single administrative director. The aim is to simplify and streamline administration at regional level. The tests are initially not about changes in the division of tasks. It is clear from the letter of invitation that trials with a unitary group will be carried out in line with the principles of the division of tasks, and it is specifically pointed out that the county should not become an over-municipality. Since the main importance of the remaining tasks of the county council has an over-municipal character, this means that it is not relevant as part of the attempt to give the county more political influence over these tasks. However, I do not exclude the existence of certain developmental tasks within the county, which can therefore be assessed under state policy management. However, I would like to stress that the aim of the unitary effort is to identify whether less bureaucracy is being created and better decision-making bases by coordinating the county office and the county administration. Thus, it is not a transfer of tasks that are intended for the experiment but to produce synergies and strengthen cooperation at regional level.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1434	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State says that there are no vague or different signals given, but at least this is perceived in Eastfold County. The application sent on 4 October was based on the Ministry's invitation letter, which included: it stressed that all the tasks of the State were initially to be assigned to the experiment and to the entity, with the exception of the complaint and oversight tasks to be organised in a separate State box. On this basis, the County of Østfold stressed the need to integrate regional development, regional services and regional administration into a single unit under elected government. Contact has also been made, among others. with KS. In Eastfold County, it is perceived that the possibility of transferring tasks has been narrowed, in line with what the Council of State has now said. So I just want to ask the Council of State to confirm that in practice there will be no tasks that can be transferred, and that it is a pure simplification of the administrative level.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1443	There may be some individual tasks, not least at the crossroads between county and county, which are also significant in relation to the development role. There will be the possibility that they will be directly or indirectly subject to a county decision. In some areas, there is also duplication of work in relation to parts of the planning processes, as is currently the case. For this reason, tasks may apply in some areas. But the starting point for the whole experiment was simplification, not moving tasks or testing a model where county councils would have greater decision-making power. I know that the ambitions of many county councils have been to transform the Government's and Storting's decision on the division of tasks. We also saw that from the tests that were applied for related to differentiated problem solution. But that's not the point. The aim here is to coordinate administrations, to create better decision-making bases, to create simplifications, and not to move on to tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1450	Just a little comment. I thank you for the answer, which I think is elucidating, but unfortunately not in line with what had been seen by the district of Eastfold and the wish of opportunities for this attempt to strengthen the county council's possibilities, not as a supremacy, but as a regional development operator.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1457	I may feel that the county councils have been much more concerned with taking on new authority tasks than exploring the developmental role of the political role it actually is, with the ability to influence dynamically with the instruments that are left behind today. I think it's important that we stress what unity states really are trying to do. It's an attempt to make administration easier. It is possible that there have been other ambitions for it around. But I don't think we can blame for the fact that there are other signals coming from the government than what has been in St.meld. No 19th@item:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1468	‘The world is in a tense situation, and we know from experience that in such situations it is more important than ever that issues of international law and law are resolved. Therefore, the Left wishes to clarify the guidelines for Norwegian participation in multinational military operations, a problem such as Amnesty Norway. has been busy. How can the Council of States ensure that Norwegian forces comply with Norwegian international obligations if they operate under the command of other countries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1475	I fully share the views of the representative Skei Grande on the importance of clarifying issues of international law when Norwegian forces participate in multinational operations. Participation in multinational operations will almost always mean that different countries have different international legal obligations or different interpretations of the same obligations. Within NATO this is very well known. Legal ‘interoperability’ in the case of participation in foreign operations is therefore a matter on which the Ministry of Defence and Defence have been focusing for a long time. Ensuring that war or armed conflict is conducted within the framework of international humanitarian law and international human rights is an overall objective. And there is no doubt that Norwegian forces are related to Norwegian law and to Norwegian international law obligations, even if they are placed under the operational command of an international organisation or other nation. Four relationships make me sure of this. Firstly, when Norway participates in coalition operations under the direction and command of another country, such as Afghanistan, it is set as an indispensable condition for participation — usually in the context of the issuing of a command — that the Norwegian soldiers are under Norwegian jurisdiction and cannot be assigned to missions that involve breaches of Norwegian law or Norwegian international obligations. Further conditions and limitations will also be possible in the circumstances. Secondly, it will always be that the rules of military use, known as ‘rules of engagement’, are reviewed and determined by the Norwegian authorities to assure us that the rules of use of power are in accordance with Norwegian law and Norwegian international obligations. Thirdly, we often want Norwegian personnel in the command chain, with particular responsibility for ensuring that Norwegian forces are not given or carry out missions that violate Norwegian obligations. The Norwegian officers serving at the Agram Air Operation Centre in Afghanistan provide a good example of this, called a ‘red card’ option, or a red card option for the operation. Fourth, Norwegian forces are well trained to act in accordance with Norwegian international commitments. The strengths are briefed on Norway’s international commitments and any pre-departure restrictions. In addition, I would like to stress that Norwegian soldiers receive general training in international humanitarian law, including Norwegian international obligations that may differ from those of other countries. Education takes place both separately and through the inclusion of the subject of international law as elements of other military subjects. In its practical and theoretical education, the Defence also cooperates with external actors, such as: Red Cross. I am therefore confident that the issues raised by the questioner are thoroughly and satisfactorily addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1496	Thank you very much for your answer. We know that in the international operations that are taking place, there is a greater and greater degree of integrated commands. We also see that countries have different interpretations. That's why I'm very happy that the Council of State has the clear answer that she has. But it's a question that I want to address. If there's an assault, it's the soldiers who are experiencing this, who are also going to notify. It can sometimes be a heavy job to alert assaults from other nations' soldiers who you are actually on the same party as. My question is whether the minister can assure me that our Norwegian soldiers have support for reporting an infringement in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1505	The formal starting point is, of course, that each country is responsible for its own staff, and we do not have a formal responsibility for how other countries carry out their operations. However, this formal starting point also needs to be modified when talking about the reporting of possible abuses by other countries’ forces. A joint Article 1 of the Geneva Conventions states that the ‘Contracting Parties undertake to respect and ensure respect’ for the Conventions. Ensuring respect for the Conventions may, in the circumstances, give an obligation to act in order to prevent and subsequently report abuses committed by other countries’ personnel. Norwegian forces are instructed to report possible breaches of the Geneva Conventions and other international obligations. And that happens as part of the general feedback from the Norwegian quota to the Norwegian authorities. There are also established procedures for the debriefing of military personnel on repatriation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1512	I thank you for the answer, for which I am pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1527	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1534	«In the evening post of 22 February of this year, there is a dramatic increase in the unemployment rate among newly graduated soldiers. At the turn of the year, 2 110 graduated soldiers were listed as vacant at Aetat. This was an increase of 46 pst. in relation to the previous year. What measures, in the short and long term, will the Council of State take to combat the unemployment of newly graduated soldiers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1541	I understand from the question that the representative Halvorsen is initially interested in the specific measures of the Defence Department to prevent unemployment among newly-dedicated soldiers. First, however, I would just like to remind you that the government has also taken a number of steps to ensure that all the unemployed, including the newly-dedicated soldiers, come back to work quickly. Aetate has been strengthened by more than 400 posts, and we have strengthened the level of action by 1,600 places compared to last year. In addition, a tight budget has been adopted by the Government, which provides the basis for lower interest rates and interest rates and, consequently, lower unemployment rates. However, the increase in unemployment also affects newly graduated soldiers. The government has as its clear objective that qualified soldiers should not come out worse in terms of unemployment than those who do not perform first-time duties. Accordingly, the defence already implements several measures to facilitate the best possible transition to work or education. One thing that is important is that the convocations are arranged so that it is possible to start a study both in the autumn and after Christmas. In addition, soldiers may apply for up to eight weeks of early education and employment. Adult training in Defence is our main instrument for the administration and enhancement of the civil competence of guardians, officers and contract officers. Adult training therefore offers courses in subjects from high school, university studies and distance learning, job and leisure courses, as well as providing assistance to soldiers with reading and writing difficulties or math skills. If the Adult Education in the Defence does not have a course or training offer, the soldiers are offered scholarships to cover expenses. However, as with any defence activity, adult training needs to be streamlined and adapted to future requirements. However, adult training will have a high priority, with a focus on the training measures that give the greatest result. The cooperation between Aetat and Adult Education in Defence is also good. In addition to regular meetings of information on developments in the labour market, the defence receives quarterly reports showing the situation of graduates on the labour market in order to follow closely the situation. I also want to strengthen cooperation with actors outside the Defence Agency. At present, we have an interesting project with Aetat in Hordaland, where 15 people who are protected are offered training, practice and permanent work in construction companies. These measures will, as a whole, help to combat the unemployment of newly graduated soldiers. I am pleased that the issue is being addressed, and can assure that we have the same ambition for practical action to get the figure as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1564	I thank you for your answer. In fact, I believe that we largely agree on the objective and the means used. But anyway, what's happening seems to be very unfair. 20 pst. serve today's duty of protection and spend one year's life serving the King and the country, as it is called, and end up at the top of the back of the job queue – they get a delay in adult life, you might say. I have been informed that the means of adult education, or civil training, have been reduced by 23 million. kr from last year to this year and onwards will be reduced by 40 million. kr, and that work is done excluding adult training from the Defence. Can the Council of State confirm this, and does the Council of State think that this will help the newly educated soldiers in what was described as the important, i.e. adult training?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1573	I will first address one of the premises of the question, namely that only 20 pst. carrying out military service. I can't do that. It is a little lower now in a conversion period than it is normal, but it is a goal of approx. 50 pst. shall be implemented. It is established and will also be possible to realise when the conversion period is over. I also hope that the measures I outlined in my first response show that the unemployed who have been newly diagnosed do not put at the back of the job queue, but that, on the contrary, they have some specific measures aimed at themselves that have not implemented the initial service. At the same time, the representative Halvorsen is entitled to a reduction in the adult education budget. It explains that it is now seeking to target these measures more specifically against groups of newly diagnosed soldiers, and that cooperation with private actors outside the adult education of the Defence Agency is also increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1582	I thank you for that answer too. Finally, I would like to ask a question about the Committee on Civil Liberties. Some of us are impatient and waiting for the Council of States and the principles that will be imposed on the duty of protection, through this sample. When can the Storting expect to get the case, and will the review address the raising of competence and, where appropriate, the scholarship and the final package, and at all events the importance, content and status of the obligation – everything in the hands of this sample? We hope that it will come quickly. I would also like to ask: will there be a chapter in that inquiry on the subject of professional army? Will it be assessed in this case, so that the Storting gets all the cards on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1591	With regard to the future of the protection obligation, I feel that the right place to deal with it is in the four-year propositions presented to the Stortinget, because it is such a big and fundamental question that the Stortinge should decide on it in an overall context. The last time we had the four-year budget for treatment in Stortinget, there was a crystal-clear majority in Stortinget to maintain the duty of protection. At the same time, I share the questioner's clear priority that it should pay to implement the protection obligation and that status-raising measures are important. In the military professional investigation now being carried out by the head of defence, which will be presented to the Ministry at the end of November, it is clear that different status-enhancing measures must be sought to be incorporated into such a long-term plan. The cost implications of this will have to be presented in the annual government budgets, but my clear ambition is also that the four-year plan that we hope to present to the Stortinget next spring will contain a total package both for the future of the protection obligation and for what we do concretely with state-of-the-art measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1608	This question, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1611	I have the following questions for our Minister for Fisheries: ‘In Skagerrak outside the Arendal in East Agder, one of the world’s largest chemical weapons of mass destruction deposit. Around 40 ships with about 170,000 tonnes of fatal German poison gas ammunition of different types were dumped here in 1945-47. It's about hugely deadly chemical ammunition, which even Hitler would not use. Some fears now that serious accidents may occur with the rusted ammunition, for example: fishing in the area. Do the authorities have sufficient control over this, and do they guarantee safety?’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1620	In 2002, the State Pollution Control Agency, SFT, in cooperation with the Defence Research Institute, FFI, carried out a state survey of ships with chemical agents dumped in Skagerrak after the Second World War. The number of ships that were lowered is somewhat unclear, but most likely there are 36 ships in the Norwegian section of Skagerrak. So far, 15 wrecks have been found. The state survey shown the condition of the wrecks has been stable and slightly altered compared to the last survey conducted in 1989. Analyses show no trace of chemicals in the water samples taken locally around the wrecks. There is a minimum risk for both humans and the environment if the shipwrecks remain calm. This is the main conclusion that SFT and FFI have drawn in their final report, which is last year. Following the transfer of responsibility for State preparedness from SFT to the Coastal Works on 1 January 2003, the Coastal Works are responsible for the further follow-up of this case. Based on this, I will follow up this case and ask the Coastal Directorate now to consider more closely the measures SFT has recommended. The SFT recommends, as mentioned above, that the wrecks and ammunition examined with chemical fighting agents should remain where they are now located. The ships have been dumped at 600 to 700 meters deep. Chemical fighting agents are unlikely to leak out of grenades that remain calm inside shipwrecks on the seabed. On the other hand, there is a high risk associated with activities that may move or affect the wrecks and ammunition scattered beyond the seabed. The SFT also recommends that activities on the seabed, including fishing must be prohibited in an 18 km x 6 km area. I would like to ask the Coastal Directorate, in close cooperation with the Fisheries Directorate and others concerned, to assess the establishment of a prohibitive zone which is slightly larger than the area of 14 km x 4 km that is currently marked on the charts. In addition, I would like to ask the Coastal Directorate to consider how to proceed with the location of the other wrecks, probably 21 in the Norwegian zone, in order to assess an up-to-date risk zone. It would also be natural to consider studies of sediment and marine organisms at sites where damaged wrecks and ammunition are or are found on the seabed. Provided shipwreck and ammunition remain at rest on the seabed, the SFT does not consider additional studies to be necessary with the first. The corrosion process is slow if the wrecks are at rest. Slow corrosion of grenades and the gradual leaching of substances into water and sediments may, according to technical expertise, occur without a particular risk to the environment, as most of the fighting agents are rapidly reduced to non-hazardous substances or are heavily soluble. Let me end by stressing that the area where the lowered wrecks are located is drawn on the charts, and the fishermen are through this orientated about the waters where there may be danger of fishing. In addition, I have asked the Swedish Coast Guard Agency to ensure that the best possible information is provided to fishermen and other stakeholders on how to behave if fishing gear nevertheless comes into contact with chemical fighting agents.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1644	I thank you for your answer. The reason why I take this matter up with the Council of State is that there is a lot of evidence that there has been trawling in the middle of this deadly dumping site for chemical combat communication, where an estimated 170 000 tonnes of chemical combat communication are scattered beyond the seabed. So it turns out that in the middle of maybe one of the world's largest chemical combat communication depots, there's been trawling. All the wrecks that were examined had leftovers of nuts on them, and I think it is very alarming. You can just imagine what might happen if this keeps happening. In my view, the risk level of fishing in this area is not sufficiently clear. So here it's 36 or 40 ships, or how many of them there are, but only 18-19 of them are located. My question to the Council of State is: what will the Council of State do to locate also those ships that we do not yet know exactly where is on the bottom of the sea in Skagerrak?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1655	First, it might be important to realize that where wrecks are known, there is a risk here. Therefore, I assume that the fishermen have respect for this, but I will pass on the information that has come here, that they believe they can prove that there has been trawling. In that case, it is irresponsible from my point of view when it is noted in the maps that there is a risk here. At the same time, the latest studies showed that there is no detectable contamination, which one would think would be likely if there has been extensive radiation in these areas. When it comes to what will be done to clarify where, if any, the 21 ships that you think are missing are missing, I refer you to what I said: We have asked the Coastal Directorate and the Coastal Agency to consider how to take action to reveal it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1662	I would like to ask a follow-up question. I was a little in doubt as to whether the Council of State is aware that there were actually jet bags found on all of the four shipwrecks that were examined last harvest. It clearly shows that there has been some significant, if not extensive, fishing here, and that is why. We all agree that if this is at rest on the seabed, there will be no great danger, but when there are opportunities for this dispute communication to possibly enter a jet bag, and it has been demonstrated by the fact that there has been trawling here, I think it is very alarming. I believe that something has to be done here. I would like to ask: does not the Council of State know that all of the four wrecks that were examined have been found? Does the Council of State know this, or does he not?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1667	I know about these statements. My conclusion was that as long as there is no detectable pollution, this has not had an adverse effect that de facto has had negative consequences. But any activity in these fields increases the risk. As I said in my first answer, the best thing that can happen is that this is still. As I explained in my first answer, I have started a number of processes in relation to the Coastal Administration, which is a new authority, to consider also the recommendations made by the SFT, whether this is satisfactory. We will take action to assess how we may detect those ships that have not been found. This is very serious, and in that way the questioner and I have shared interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1674	That concludes today's Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-03-05.ana.ud730e1684	There is no record.
