ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e53	The 2004 government budget proposal is a budget for jobs, well-being and renewal. These priorities have been maintained through the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party. I would like to pay tribute to our cooperation partner for constructive and good cooperation. This ensured the dignity and cleanliness of such a process should exist. Negotiations took place over a short period of time. We did not see dealers going out and in through the doors for several weeks. This has calmed the budgetary process and has contributed to the stability of the Norwegian economy. It has also strengthened confidence in politicians and in the political system. Last autumn, the Government stated that there was a need for a tight budget to help reduce the interest rate level and weaken the dollar rate. This was repeated and repeated. We had a tight budget adopted. In the last year, we've also seen results. The interest rate has fallen by 4.5 percentage points. The krone course has weakened by about 13 pst. against the euro since the beginning of this year. It has helped to improve competitiveness and job security in the competitive sector. It is a primary objective of the Government to secure and create jobs. One more human being in the job queue is one too many. In the national budget, the Government has taken into account an improvement in the labour market during the winter months. There are now signs that the growth of unemployment is about to stop. The budget facilitates a positive development. Economic optimism is growing again. Concrete measures in the budget will also mean more work. Multi-billion-dollar construction projects are under way, road construction appropriations are increasing, research efforts are increasing, the labour market seat is being strengthened, and the number of action sites is being increased – to name a few. We live in a welfare society in Norway. Most of us take the welfare for granted. But a welfare society is measured by how we take care of those who need it the most. This is why action against poverty, increased care for the elderly and a well-developed healthcare service, with a particular focus on psychiatry, are important priorities in the budget. The budget is otherwise marked by renewed emphasis on research and innovation, the full funding of the quality reform of higher education, the full follow-up of the kindergarten agreement, the strong commitment to public transport and the struggle for the world's poor and persecuted. In short, the government is delivering! In many countries, major welfare challenges are now being discussed. Several are putting up with extensive reforms. Norway is more fortunate than most countries we can compare with. We have oil resources. Many people ask themselves why we can't spend more of our oil money. Then is the main answer: Controlling the oil wealth with wisdom and wisdom is solidarity with future generations. Our children and grandchildren also deserve to share in our welfare level. The Petroleum Fund still accounts for less than a quarter of our pension liabilities. In addition, we need to avoid a use of money that leads to the warming of the economy, with rising prices and interest rates undermining increased appropriations. The fact that the government parties and the Labour Party agree on these budgetary frameworks made reconciliation easier. The Workers' Party's own budget proposal contains poor coverage proposals, such as the removal of cash support and the tax deduction for gifts to non-governmental organisations and the cut-off of early school support. But fortunately, it was possible to achieve a settlement without such unfortunate entries. The progress of the party in the budgetary process has been amazing. First, the government was severely criticised for the draft budget. Then came a milder tone and apparent willingness to negotiate. So the party broke the negotiations after a short time, instead of following the invitation to try on. So the lot put itself on the side line. It is also winged at one moment to say that one does not have responsibility for the Government and cancel it out, for then the next moment to want a two-year agreement with the same government, which was to cut off the Government from implementing important parts of the Sem-Declaration by preventing us from cooperating with others other than the Progress Party. The co-operation administration has again been given a budget in which we retain our main priorities and take new steps towards implementing the Sem Declaration. This bears the mark of all three governmental parties, not just one, as some for tactical reasons prefer to make it. On this basis, the Government continues to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e79	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e82	First, I would like to commend the Prime Minister that the Government has shown great satisfaction in the negotiations and has been willing to significantly change its budget in important areas. This made it possible to significantly increase the income of municipalities. We have more than doubled the increase in the free income of municipalities. We got a significantly larger investment in school care and care for the elderly, and we managed to reduce the overheads, from NOK 2 500, as the government had suggested, to NOK 1550. We have also achieved many other improvements in the budget – so many improvements that Parliamentary leader Jon Lilletun believes that the budget has improved. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he agrees with his parliamentary leader that the budget is better now than the original government proposal. In case he doesn't mean it, what's so negative about the conciliation that it compensates for the strong bet on the municipalities, in hospitals, on the fight against unemployment, which we got in place through the conciliation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e89	I got the same question in the last spontaneous question about how I looked at Jon Lilletun's statement. Then I said something such as that in these times there must be room for such joy rings, and that many in the Storting thus have something to learn from Jon Lilletun. Even I say that it was a very good budget proposal, and that was a good budgetary settlement, because we managed to find room for further strengthening of areas which also the Government prioritises, among other things. school, health and other welfare measures, and not least the fight against unemployment. But when Stoltenberg gave me praise, I will give praise back. I would like to thank the Workers' Party for not insisting on the loss of cash support, for not insisting on the loss of tax credits for gifts to non-governmental organisations – and for maintaining proper support for in-house schools, so that children of people with lower incomes can also afford to go there. It wouldn't be like that if the Workers' Party had got what they wanted. What's negative in the deal is essentially the containment proposals and the cuts. There was the Government's proposal better than the Workers' Party's.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e98	This was then violent with praise. When I hear the rose that Jens Stoltenberg gives Kjell Magne Bondevik and vice versa, it reminds me of a debate that we had for approx. a year ago. The debate we've had today is actually very similar to the one we had last year. It's just that Jens Stoltenberg and Carl I. Hagen have changed their seats. Last year I was the one who got a lot of praise, and Stoltenberg who got shut up. This year, it's Stoltenberg who gets praise, and I'm the one who gets shut up. The government calls it a tough course. One year you increase the alcohol charge a little, and the other you lower it – and then you do it up and down on both sides. My question is, how is it really the Prime Minister now looking at his basis in Stortinget, when he has the canon that he now has against us, and that he had against Jens Stoltenberg last year? Is it now the line that the Government has no other basis in Stortinget than the three government parties, which is my assessment, or is the prime minister of the opinion that he has any more real basis for this government than the government parties? In that case, does he agree that it must be the Workers' Party after the settlement that is now available?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e105	It is true that last year we gave the Progress Party a tribute for a budget settlement, but unfortunately that was no reason for it to continue. Because it didn't take many weeks before the Progress Party went into proposals that blew up the financial framework they themselves had been involved in. There, in fact, I have greater expectations for the Workers' Party that they will stick to the framework we have now agreed. It is also not right that we lowered the alcohol charges last year and increased them this year. Alcohol taxes are generally price adjusted, i.e. actually the same as for the current year. It's just on a rush, and there's been a cross-political consensus in the Storting, that the fee has been increased, for good reasons. In the case of a bad course, I must say that I do not think exactly the representative Hagen is right to spend so much on it, with all the changing visions the Progress Party has had – both in the view of government, in the view of state ownership, etc. is the new position every day. With regard to the government's foundation in Stortinget, I've always been aware that this is a minority government. It does not have a direct majority on the parliamentary basis. But the crucial thing is that we achieve a majority of our proposals in over 90 pst. of the cases. We're heading rough because we're following up the Sem statement, and we're taking new steps there in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e114	It's an art piece the prime minister now performs, if you're going to count it as acrobatics, that's to balance on a rather slack line. The Prime Minister is not going to say what the Christian People's Party's own parliamentary leader said – he was fighting the sun when the budgetary conciliation came – that a good budget had become even better. Nor does he make himself clear as to what he considers to be the government's parliamentary basis in the United Kingdom, except that it is intended to build itself on a case-by-case basis. But until now, the government has had the understanding with the Progress Party that you have first gone there. It is applicable to all budgets and revised national budgets to be settled. It is only because the Progress Party has been regarded as part of its parliamentary basis that it has first gone to the Progress Party. Then I wonder, what's going on next year? Is it so that next year the government will count itself as completely free to just pick who they want, by the approach? Or is it also the case next year that the vote, the roll-call vote provided by the Advance Party when Bondevik's government came to power, lies at the root, and that that means that the Advance Party is still the first lover?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e121	The time frame for lines does not extend as far as the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e124	This is essentially a good budgetary settlement, but, from the government's point of view, the negative parts are on the containment side and on the cuts. There was our original suggestion better. As for what we're going to do next year, I think we're now going to focus on getting the 2004 budget adopted. The government for its part has not started in the 2005 budget yet, much less determined who to go to in the Storting. It will, as in the past, depend largely on the reactions. For us, it is not crucial who we work with, but what we work together on, namely that we can take new steps towards implementing the Sem Declaration. I'm aware that we're a minority government. We thus have a relatively narrow parliamentary base. It reminds me of a true story when I led the Center Government. Our foreign minister at the time was in Latin America, where, as many regimes know, is quite dependent on a good relationship with the military. Vollebæk told me that the central government had 42 mandates behind it in the Stortinget. Then the colleague in question said very seriously: Yes, then you must have a good relationship with the military forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e133	The budgetary agreement between the Government and the Workers' Party, in the view of the Centre Party, has drawn policy in the right direction. It is not enough for municipalities, hospitals and business activities, but it is a clear improvement. I also want to challenge the Prime Minister to elaborate on what we can expect here in the Great Britain in the future in terms of cooperation constellations. Does he envisage further cooperation with the Workers' Party, where he makes his own happy, or is it equally relevant to go to the Advance Party in the next round?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e141	I now understand that the 2004 budgetary procedure is so tidy and undramatic that the opposition is now suddenly more concerned with the budgetary procedure in a year's time. It's a good sign for the Government. But I have no other answer to Haga's representative in this regard than my answer to the previous line, namely that we are most concerned with what we get through through through politics, and not by who shows responsibility in the Storting and presents and contributes to this. Therefore it is not possible to give a more precise answer to this. This is a minority government. We depend on seeking cooperation from case to case. The Labour Party was willing this time when it was in the budget. It draws in the right direction – the fight against unemployment and the fight for better welfare. Moreover, in the Grand Duchy, we have cooperated with the Progress Party on two budgets before and also on other matters. We have cooperated with the Labour Party, among others. on a number of agricultural settlements and other important issues, and we have cooperated with SV, most recently on bio- and genetic policy and environmental policy. This government is being implemented progressively more of what we decided on at Sem. That's what matters to the Prime Minister and to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e148	When you don't get an answer to a question, you have to ask the question several times until you give up. The point is that the Prime Minister is not responding. He is not able to explain clearly whether he believes that this conciliation actually makes the budget better or not, but talks somewhat unclear about a good budget and a good deal. But that's not the question. It is really alarming that the Prime Minister is not quite clear that, of course, he believes that the budget he has provided was the best, and that part of the negotiations has been given. But the truth is that the Christian People's Party actually thinks that there was too little of 1.8 billion kroner for the municipalities, that there was too much of 2,500 kroner in self-interest, and that there was too little for the hospitals. It is therefore gratifying that the Workers' Party has managed to move the Right towards saying no to tax relief and giving more to the common consumption. There is a very important political core in terms of where the political majority lies in this process. Otherwise, I believe it is obvious that the Government has a failure when it does not manage to make budgets on its parliamentary basis, the Progress Party, and so on, the Government has weakened its parliamentary basis here in the Grand Duchy through what has now happened during the budget harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e155	As far as the President could see, the questioner now answered the question himself, but the Prime Minister would like to be allowed to answer it, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e158	I often have the feeling when questions are asked to both the Prime Minister and others, that the questioner wants at least a certain answer. The truth is that despite the suggestion that Hagen made during the first centenary debate in the autumn of 2001, this government has seen itself as a minority government. We are still, with the dangers it entails. But there is currently no basis for a majority government in Norwegian policy. The cooperation regime was the natural outcome of the parliamentary situation that began in 2001. The truth is that this government has now been running for well over two years – driven with varying support in Stortinget – but it is essential that we step by step implement our own political programme. We made an accounting for this on the summer. After the budgetary procedure, we can add new chapters to those accounts. We've come a long way, and it shows that the government's in charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e163	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e166	It's important to have a clear basic vision and a good view. Our basic vision in the Labour Party is clear. We bet on work, on school and on health, yes, we bet on creating and sharing. The most important tasks now are getting more people to work, creating more new jobs, getting a better school, creating security in relation to health services. There are over 100,000 people who are completely out of work. Something needs to be done to reduce that number as soon as possible. Industrial employment has been dramatically reduced. Therefore, we must have an active industrial policy, and in our alternative budget, we spend SEK 4.8 billion on an active and targeted industrial policy. A key condition to improve business conditions is to have good transport solutions. Better infrastructure will help improve the competitiveness of businesses and enable them to build and build in the districts. Both inside the road and track, we use several kroner. We spend more on maintenance and increase efforts when it comes to racial protection. If we are to have a better school and good care services, the local economy must grow. We have made that clear in our alternative budget, and we have – and will also have in the future – more for better education in the small sphere. Then it's the hallmark. That's good! These are the practical political results that count. The agreement entered into by the Workers' Party with the Government Party is not good enough. There are too few funds for most of the areas that I have listed, but a poor budget in many areas is fixed. We have improved labour market measures, and we have gained more money for school and more money for care. And that's on the results we're being measured – all of them. The Labour Party has got something — some practical results for people, and that means something. And then we've also had a reduction in the properties of drugs. When it comes to what's going on in professional courts for people who work, it was important to correct the biases and the unfairness that the Government proposed in this budget. It applies both to temporary additions, to permit regulations and to the AFP regime. It was unlikely that it was important to stop this, which led to a more brutal working life. It is clear that a majority in the Stortinget can decide anything, even when it concerns temporary additions, but I am pleased that the Government will not come back now with anything that will destroy what we have been given in the negotiations. At the end of the day, it's been very hard on us with the Workers' Party's top-tax entry point, and the Minister of Finance said it was very good for the Government to arrange for the Workers' Party's security. There is no need for a government party to do that. The working party is able to arrange for it itself. In 2002, we said that the entry point for the top tax would be 320,000 kroner, and it would be paid and price adjusted. We have secured our securities by keeping what we promised. We haven't kept what Right has promised, but we've kept what the Labour Party has promised, and that's what's important. I don't think it may be necessary to represent something that's wrong from the pulpit. It's important when creating securities from the Workers' Party's side, to keep it. We have also done that when it relates to the point of entry for the top tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e183	In my reply to the Prime Minister, I pointed out some similarities between the debate last year and this year, except that the names «Hagen» and «Stoltenberg» and «Fremskritspartiet» and «Work Party» have changed. There is, however, one thing that is not quite equal, which the Prime Minister was also concerned about: there was no cheer in the voice of the Progress Party made a settlement last year. We already pointed out during the financial debate that there were a number of things in the budget we didn't like very well, among other things. part of the things that the Workers' Party also criticized us for having had to accept. We stressed last year that we felt a responsibility for the government, that we felt a responsibility not to get a government change. We were in a number of areas dissatisfied with the budget agreement, but in sum we grounded when we said yes, that we wanted to rock the government. There's a significant difference this year. The Labour Party, which, last year, was opposed to concluding a budgetary settlement based on subsidiary voting, has accepted it this year. Secondly, according to Jens Stoltenberg, the government question has not been given any weight at all. So it's the content of the budget that alone has made it possible for the Workers' Party to join it. They are, as Stoltenberg also says, fully behind the budgetary agreement, the entire budget, as it will now be adopted by the Stortinget. That's a change from what we did last year. This will also be interesting in January, February, March and April. Jens Stoltenberg did not accept that there were parts of the budget the Progress Party had voted for, which we really did not like very well, including. gravitational assistance, which Jens Stoltenberg has done nothing to get back into the budget, including: medicines on the blue prescription for pensioners, as Jens Stoltenberg has not done anything to get back into the budget now when he had the opportunity to take it up and could do anything about it. So he's accepted all the things that happened last year, which he hasn't lifted a finger to fix this year, and is in the same booth as the Progress Party. We were not satisfied with that. Now he's also accepted it. In addition to the year, we were criticized for the impact of the budget, also in the areas where we had explicitly said that we did not like the decisions. Now it's like the Workers' Party is behind the whole budget deal. This means that every time it shows up some year — problems in a municipality, which may have to put a school down, or there is a shortage of nursing homes in a municipality, or there are health problems when the queues there are going to grow after reducing input-based funding from 60pst. to 40 pst. and have totally inadequate appropriations for our healthcare system – the Workers' Party and Jens Stoltenberg are fully responsible for this together with the Government. It will not be possible for Jens Stoltenberg to refer to his own alternative budget. At least we could do it with a certain degree of credibility, because we said it was parts of the budget we felt we didn't want to vote for, but we did it because we wanted to rock the government. This time it's also become so that there are things that go in the wrong direction when it comes to social issues. In the course of the year, the Workers' Party and the government parties have increased the proportion of health care by 23 p.m., and now I'm talking about the rates. The ownership match has now been increased by 13 pst. – significant increases. It will also be noticeable that what the Progress Party used to do last year – we had to stop a deterioration in the permit law by preventing the proposal for an extension of the employer’s period from 3 to 21 days – has not given any emphasis to the Workers’ Party. The obligation to pay is now increased to 10 days by the period of leave, and there are already indications that it will result in termination. However, the most important thing is – as the Prime Minister has now confirmed, and to the extent that the Prime Minister has maintained it all the time, he should have the honour of – that the Prime Minister has never accepted that the Progress Party is part of the parliamentary basis, or, to use the expression I used when we felt that we were, a basis for the Government. There the Prime Minister has kept a consistent line, namely that this government will have no firm anchor anywhere, but will have the freedom to have the same relationship with the Socialist Left Party, with the Labour Party and with the Progress Party. I am pleased that I can at least state that in this area we are now fully in line, so there is no misunderstanding that the Progress Party should have any obligations or special circumstances and ties to this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e198	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e201	The representative Hagen used most of his contributions to criticise the Workers' Party, and he told me a little about what the Progress Party stands for. Much of what Hagen said was wrong, and a false presentation of what the Workers' Party has said in this debate and in the mention of the budget. But one thing he is right about, and that is that the Labour Party takes responsibility for what we vote for, even when we vote subsidiaryly. We vote subsidiaryly because we believe that our original proposal is a better proposal – we want to mark it. But in return, we also take responsibility for having achieved significant improvements in many areas, so that we can do more in school, more in the care of the elderly, more in the fight against unemployment and not least more in relation to hospitals. Then, of course, we are free to review the situation again in the context of the revised national budget, and then, as we always do – when we are in government, when we are in opposition, whether we are in agreement or not – we will promote the amendments necessary to remedy the weaknesses and weaknesses and shortcomings that may arise during the year. But they will be covered within a responsible framework, for the Workers' Party is a responsible party, unlike the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e206	Last year, the representative, Stoltenberg, said that it was never possible for the Workers' Party to give subsidiary support to a settlement in a budget. It was the Labour Party's line that if an agreement was to be made, it was about the entire budget, where the Labour Party did not promote its own proposal and then voted in a subsidiary way. So it just lasted until this year. Otherwise, he mentions the things he got into this year, just as I did in last year's debate. So we only got one billion more to the municipalities. We got tax relief for the low-paid, and we got to stop a number of social deteriorations from the Government, like the Workers' Party this year. But there is clearly a great difference of opinion between the Prime Minister and the Labour Party's parliamentary leader in terms of the Freedom of the Workers' Party. For the Prime Minister, the Labour Party expects to stay within the agreed framework, and that must mean, for example, that. what has been mentioned in the media that the Workers' Party would be willing to grant NOK 10 billion in equity to Statkraft, Jens Stoltenberg is now prevented from doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e211	I remember an episode from Stortinget's pulpit where the representative Carl I. Hagen from the inside pocket, possibly from the wallet, produced a copy of the rule of action, which he read. It had he lying there stuck, he said, so that he could at any time read it up when it was chiefed like this. I thought that was a pretty good idea, so when I found a quote in the newspaper, I lamed it too. I got this now. This is the opinion of Mr Hagen, in the Newspaper on 23 November 2003, to his rapporteurs: ‘In the opposition, you can complain and criticise, and you can use the same money several times. In the position, however, one must think carefully about, and make sure that its proposals are covered, and be responsible and serious.’ I think I'm going to use it often. This is a very good description of the Advance Party's budget and also a good description of the Government's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e222	I thank Oddvard Nilsen for having referred to such wise words, as I spoke to our rapporteurs, because I assume that Oddvard Nilsen will sign each and every one as a general description of the difference between being in position and opposition, whether the party is the Progress Party, the Right, the Labour Party, the SV or any other party. In my first years here in Stortinget, I learned that art very well from the right opposition party. So there were some periods when I learned it very well from the opposition Workers' Party, which in the Stortingeten suggested to grant a certain sum to the hospitals, and then they sung around in the labor party teams in the country, and all of them thought they would spend half of the total amount. So my description is a reminder to everyone who goes into position, that you have to be aware of the big differences. The Progress Party is aware of the big differences, and that is why we are also looking for a situation where we can take responsibility, because we are fully aware of what this would entail. So I thought it was nice that Oddvard Nilsen read those words. I am proud of those words, they were very wise, and they are very justified.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e227	The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Per Sandberg is quoted in the Evening Post on Monday on the following: ‘I think we should put a line over all the privatisation debates in our party.’ Only a few weeks before that, the OECD had presented a new report which stated that privatisation has led to more bureaucratic, inefficient and undemocratic policies. For those of us who are anti-privatisation, it is quite alarming in such a short time to get statements from both the OECD and the Progress Party, where they appear to be privatizers. I would like to invite Carl I. Hagen to explain why the Progress Party is now going to put a line over all the privatisation debate in its party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e237	Carl I. Hagen is free to accept the invitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e240	Here it is a quite significant misunderstanding. What Per Sandberg has said is that we should be more aware of using the words "competition", "competition stimulation" and "choice" rather than "privatisation" because there are so many who use the word "privatisation" wrong. When you launch something – that the public still pays for a service, but you have different suppliers – there's nothing to do with privatisation, but SV may have been good at making people believe it. That's why there's a cleanup in the terms Per Sandberg first and foremost took care of. We will continue to ensure that where the public pays the bill, in particular welfare services on behalf of users, we will have much more freedom of choice. We cannot understand why Mrs Nilsen herself cannot choose which nursing home she should be in when it is established that she is receiving a grant for a nursing home place – i.e. a piece of price finance. What we got together with the Workers' Party, namely effort-based funding, which we established, is the Workers' Party and the government parties which unfortunately destroy, thereby reducing the treatment of sick people in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e247	I borrowed the quote that the representative Oddvard Nilsen used in his question. When I read it, I thought that it was certainly a humorous statement as some kind of illustration of how things shouldn't be. Then, in fact, the representative Carl I. Hagen is standing here saying that it is well said – one should complain and criticize and spend the money several times. I have these questions to the representative Hagen: does he believe that this kind of behaviour works so that most people in the country think politics is serious? Could this be one of the things that drive down respect for politicians, that one doesn't describe reality? Now I'm going to confirm that each of us is going to think about how we are in opposition. We may all have to pray ‘do not get into temptation’, but I thought the representative Hagen would answer what I am asking for. So in the end, is he in agreement with the appointment of the brilliant leader of the Financial Committee today: ‘It is not so that any performance from the Progress Party is a planned breach of promises’?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e256	The President will express some doubt as to whether it is a step forward in Storting's work that quotations are laminated so that they can go around. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e259	I ignore the last question. It's too stupid. On the other hand, I do not think what the representative Lilletun said was right. I've never told you to. I have never said that someone should spend money several times, but I have said that you can. If you're going to challenge me again – now I've answered one challenge and wasted a whole day on it – to try to find examples that all the parties have done this exactly over the years, I'm going to say: one day you're going to suggest that you give money for a purpose, and then you cover it up in another place. Then it goes five months, and you come forward with a proposal, and it goes down. Then you suggest more money for one purpose, covered in exactly the same way you did with the other five months before. That's the way all the opposition parties sometimes use. There are some favourite coverage areas that are used as containment when increasing appropriations. You can do that in the opposition, and it's done to a large extent all the parts in this room in the opposition over the past 25 years. No one is better than anyone else. I have tried to give a reasonable reminder to those who are in position, to make sure that they are in a new situation. I think one should be happy to try to prepare rapporteurs and those who govern the municipalities for this. That's what more people should do.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e269	The Progress Party also points to the 2004 State budget. An example is the VAT refund scheme introduced in the municipal sector. The centre party disagrees with this reform. We don't have the same faith in the release of competition and privatisation as the best for the inhabitants. We also believe that there is reason to ask questions to the Progress Party, which has ordered this reform, whether they are satisfied with the Government's preparation for this introduction. Important objections arise from the local government sector. One of the many reactions is from four spokesmen on the Jären – two are from the Christian People's Party, and one is from the Right – who asks for the reform to be postponed. Is there anything the Progress Party might think of appraising closer?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e274	No, no, no. It doesn't matter that we want to be involved in postponing this reform. We made proposals for the first time in 1983, during Kåre Willoch's Prime Minister's period. Now that we get it completed, it's after a lot of time from us every year. We think it took too long, but here the government has delivered. We think it should be done a long time ago, but at last we get it done. What is deficient in the reform itself is that the state is not involved, and that, as far as I know, health businesses are a bit of a problem here. Maybe there are solutions, but the state isn't with enough. This should be done as soon as possible. I cannot understand that the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV are opposed to the freedom that a municipality should have when, for example. shall have clean buildings. When it is a private cleaning company that can actually make it more reasonable than its own establishment, why should higher expenditure be charged to the inhabitants of the municipality? And then it is solely due to the subsidisation of the municipality's own activity through the VAT scheme. I am very happy that it will be changed on 1 January. Then we get a revolution in Municipality-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e279	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e282	The government presented its budget for 2004 in order to create and secure jobs, further develop key welfare mechanisms and bring innovation and innovation. The budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party ensures the broad lines of the Government's budgetary proposals, including: by continuing the responsible economic line that has laid the basis for the interest rate decrease we have seen in the current year. We have improved the competitiveness of Norwegian business and provided the basis for optimism and the growing growth that we are now seeing. The agreement also takes care of the generational perspective, as it adheres to the Government’s proposal for the use of oil money. Overall, there will be no tax incentives in 2004, but housing tax relief remains constant, and the peak rate of tax will also increase. The budget agreement also strengthens the efforts in the school sector. Overall, the comparison is good, although of course I believe that the government's proposal was better. Yes, it is historic that the Right Party and the Labour Party are behind a common budgetary agreement in the Stortinget. Right wants to implement as much as possible of our policies. Then we cooperate with those who give us the opportunity to do this. To the Right, of course, it's more important what we work together on than who we work with. There is still political disagreement between the Workers' Party and the Government Parties. This is clearly shown by the Labour Party's draft budget. This budget contains, as you know, a tax tightening of SEK 4.2 billion. If you add one to the Workers' Party's proposal to postpone the conversion of the electricity charge, the sum will be NOK 5 billion. In addition, the Workers' Party's proposal to remove the cash support and propose to remove 400 million. kr from the fresh water. It shows that in tax policy and freedom of choice, the distance is great. In that way, everything knows the old stuff. The working party expressed a willingness to negotiate, so that a result could be achieved. Of course, through the negotiations, the Labour Party has influenced the final outcome in the areas that are important to them. This time the Workers' Party had influence. One year ago, of course, the Progress Party had a corresponding influence on the final result. That's the way it has to be. The party of progress has produced a lot of noise after the conciliation was concluded. It kind of surprises me. The progress party should not have any problems admitting that it was they who chose to break the negotiations themselves. We started negotiations with them. They broke. When a break in negotiations, one always takes a calculated risk of a contract being concluded with others. The break was a choice the Progress Party itself made, and therefore the consequences and lack of influence they must take full responsibility for themselves. Commentators have underlined that this time we received a round of negotiations in Stortinget marked by the calmness that such a process should have. One should of course not exaggerate the significance of a single process like this, but I'm standing by what I've said before, I think this has strengthened the Storting, and I think it's also strengthened us as politicians out with the most people. But the most important thing is that we now have a budget that both takes care of what we achieved and at the same time facilitates a further rise. The sum of all of this: we all rejoice that we are securing and creating new jobs, we are continuing the welfare state and providing the basis for innovation and innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e296	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e299	In this debate, the Right-wing Speakers, both in posts and in replies, have made a very strong settlement with the Progress Party. There has been a frustration that has obviously escaped this debate. Now Oddvard Nilsen said that they "wanted to implement as much of the policy we stand for," and that that is interesting not who you work with, but what you work with. Cooperation with the Workers' Party has, on important points, stopped the right turn which the Government has succeeded in implementing in the first two years by means of the Advance Party, in particular in relation to employment. If the government or government parties want to implement the rest of the Sem declaration, which has been pointed out by others, I would like to ask Oddvard Nilsen: Who does he intend to implement the next steps in cooperation with? The Labour Party will not contribute to the implementation of more right-wing policies. We want to stop the right turn that the government stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e306	This government consists of three sets of programmes. But these three parties, therefore, jointly had the power at Sem to arrive at a government base that gathered them together. It's clear that all three parties had to give up something, but the sum of it, the platform there, that's the one we're in common with, and it's proven to be in government for two years now. Of course, it is the right hand task of this government, like the other two parties, to ensure that as many points as possible of what is stated in the Sem Declaration are implemented. That's the goal, and we're working on it. And then it becomes so that we will always cooperate with those parties that make it possible for us to realize as much of the Sem statement as possible. It's that simple. We're going to do that, and we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e313	The representative Oddvard Nilsen obviously doesn't have it very well a day, it's very easy to see. And I can understand why. So now there is a right and must observe an emerging love relationship between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, a relationship that develops while the Christian People's Party is in government with the Right. It must be unpleasant, because in the short term, of course, this means that the government survives, but in the long term, one sits there and sees that the basis for this government's existence crumbles and that the basis for setting up an alternative government is growing. That means that for every day that goes, the Right moves slowly, but surely away from the government offices as a consequence of the budgetary unity that has taken place in the harvest. It should pay for a significantly greater degree of thought in the Right, not least because they are also now spending all their energy on honoring the party with which it might be perhaps most close to cooperating under completely different circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e318	We'll see if there's some energy left over for other purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e321	I think they have to feel bad about me, those who think I'm honoring parties. I think that's pretty far from my style. But there's one thing in politics that takes me enormously, and that's that we're going to be responsible for generations that come after us. The right is really concerned about it, and personally I'm concerned about it. That is, the oil wealth we manage is to be managed beyond our own generation. It's a fortune that belongs to the country, the nation as such. I want to say that it upsets me that the Progress Party is so easy in this round, just knowing that they're taking from our children what they're going to have in the future. I'm extremely concerned about it, it's very important to me that this budget stays within the framework of the use of oil wealth. I think that serves us politicians in the long term. Then people will be aware that this was the right thing to do. That's where the Progress Party disappoints me. Then I have the right – and I say that – to hang on to the Progress Party every time they use a crown more of the oil wealth, because it is at the expense of our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e328	The last thing the president sees as a promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e331	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e336	It's more than the opposition that's been busy with next year's budget today. Several of the Right-Representatives have assured the House that the Sem declaration of their promises of tax relief is in place. And then we're talking about next year's budget, because there's not so much tax relief in this year's budget. Right-leader Jan Petersen earlier said this week that the destination was approx. 10 billion DKK in tax bills, probably only with the help of the Progress Party, but today we experience – as many people have been in it – that Right honors and closest skin merges the same Progress Party both for their policies and for lack of seriousness. So the cooperation that is completely unmistakable this year, is of course next year, this government is going to be able to fulfill its promises. Then it is not so strange that it can be seen for us in the opposition as a government without direction on the policy they are pursuing. But Oddvard Nilsen may want to help us clarify the direction of government for its policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e343	I guess I've basically almost blackened that line once before. The direction of this government is the Sem Declaration, which underlies the work of this government. Our task in every context is to try, as I said instead, to get a majority of the different points that stand there. That's the direction. This means that it may at certain times be relevant to cooperate with the Advance Party, and also with the Workers' Party. In fact, cooperation with SV may also be relevant on the environmental side in some areas. The point is there are three different games, but there are three games that are gathered around a document that we have jointly developed. Of course, we have loyalty to what we set up there and on which we have laid the foundations in the Great Britain at the time of accession. In fact, it is that simple: we implement the Sem declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e352	When you get something good in a budgetary context, someone wants to pay for it too, and especially if you're very careful not to spend oil money, and that there's no tax havens to be removed. We have asked a little about the implications used in the budget agreement. One post that's cut in $30 million. kr, is about the benefit of child care for the lone mother. The answer here is that there's about 28,000 who get this help, and to get this cut, most of them lose $800 a year. So it's 1,200 that loses on average $10,800. That's pretty tough for them – to save 30 million. kr. If one had instead let them pay it with top taxes, it would have been 40 kroner each. Then the tax ceiling would be 300 kroner lower. But one chose to make peace with the top treasure. The 600 million. extra kroner in proportion could have been covered by the maximum tax limit being set at NOK 349 000 instead of NOK 354 000. The average income for women today in Norway is 149 000 kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e362	If my information is not wrong, it is that we protect the people who have little income, and that this applies to people who have income over NOK 340 000. But let me mention one thing that I'm very concerned about. Because it's a security network in society that's supposed to carry those that don't stretch to. And there will always be someone who can't, not powers. It depends on us as a community being able to create an economic surplus that allows us to bear those burdens together. That means that the economic part related to interest rates and interest rates may seem a little bit distant from the problem that was raised here. But this is closely related. The whole of politics is based on the fact that the society that is incapable of creating an economic surplus, the society that destroys in the long run, on the long run, also the well-being. That's why, as I said at the outset, it's been a priority for this government to make sure that interest rates and interest rates go down, to ensure further well-being and, in addition, to take care of the other values. But this hangs in a bunch, there's a context in this. You have to create values before you can share them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e369	In the last two years, I have listened to the fact that the Labour Party has been, not revered, but not given much credit to the policy we've been conducting. Today I seemed to hear that Sanner referred to the Progress Party in much the same way as they mentioned the Workers' Party. One doesn't make so many friends here in the hall by doing it that way, but it's not really my problem, it's probably more the government's problem. I would like to ask the parliamentary leader in the Right: Lilletun has stated that the budget has been better with this agreement with the Labour Party. The Prime Minister can't say that, but he doesn't seem to think the agreement has been anything worse. This has been done at the school of the agreement. Local authorities have been given more so that they can do more for the school when it comes to both content and length of school day. Does not the parliamentary leader in the Right think it has been good after the conciliation?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e376	The President finds reason to warn against putting too much into people's appearance.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e379	I don't like these lines from the president, sir. President.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e384	I have no difficulty in praising the Workers' Party for the agreement we have now entered into. It's been extraordinarily tidy. It's been really real, and I just have good things to say about it. It's always the case that when you're negotiating, someone has to give something here, and someone has to give something there. You meet at the midpoint. But I stress, of course, that the budget we put forward, which we've been working on for over a year, was a better budget than this. But that also means that when we were going to compile these things, we thought that this was possible, among other things. because the three things that have been important to the Right were taken care of: we didn't spend any more oil money. We were given a significant boost to the school – the proposal now in place is, in fact, a proposal that was promoted by the Right in the previous period, so we fully support it. And in addition, we haven't got tax incentives, but actually we have a little tax relief. Yes, of course, the right could think more of the tax side, but we accept that the position was such in Stortinget, and would like to praise the Workers' Party for their participation in this conciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e389	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e392	When the Government presented its draft budget in October, we were critical of the lack of measures to reduce the unemployment that the proposal showed. With 110 000 unemployed, the draft budget had no active intention of bringing this down. With this high unemployment rate, however, we in SV are very clear on what is the most important task for 2004. It's getting your hands out of work. Both within our ordinary budget and in an extraordinary employment package, that is our priority. And we use the entire toolbox. There must be a width of the agency, and the employment must come across the whole country. The fact that the growth of the economy will be particularly private consumption will have negative consequences for entry into the districts. This means that we are growing in trade in goods and services, which are traditionally found in more central lines, while industrial workplaces are being laid down in the districts. SV is pleased that one in the budget agreement has found a solution of the length when it applies to the period of leave. That is in line with what we have proposed. But what's not so good is that the payroll for the companies has increased to 10 days. It's less than 30, as the government suggested, but it's a big cost increase for the companies next year. For some companies, this means that they simply cannot benefit from the permit rules. One cannot afford to trigger the feature and must go to cancellations immediately. That would be a great pity for the unemployment that we have today. SV's budget proposal has a strong focus on road construction and racial protection, on the construction of ports and the repair of fairways, on measures for shipbuilding and the fishing industry and on local food funds, and not least on a major investment in construction and construction. Of course, we are also going against the Government's proposal to add more temporary ones. The proposal does not in any way create any more workspaces, as the Government claims. It's part of brutalizing a working life that's tough enough. SV invests in research and development – both through the Research Council and through the SND. The pace of research, which was in the state budget, is in a positive direction, but far from enough. Especially in the field of commercialization of research results, we are calling for a commitment. There is little or no other capital available for projects at an early stage than these risk arrangements that we have in the SND and in the district billion, on which SV got the government last year. The capital market is completely dry. Although the capital market should improve somewhat, private capital will not enter into projects until the risk is significantly reduced. To this end, we need to increase the opportunities for nation-wide innovation, seed and industrial research and development contracts, so that market-based research projects can be followed through the different phases right up to ringing coins in the cash register. SV uses therefore 600 million. kr more than the Government of the United States of America on this. In addition to this extensive effort, we are putting in a tax haven for the industry. We increase the depreciation rate from 20 to 25 pst. next year, which is a major facilitater for the competitive sector, contributing to new investment, innovation and jobs. In total, we will create around 20,000 new jobs next year, both through immediate action and through long-term jobs. We can't be content with anything less than that, with an unemployment rate of 110,000. So at last something completely different, but it took me seriously: United World College, like the Government, with the Christian People's Party of all parties, proposed that it be closed from the autumn of 2004, but which fortunately was mountained by the Labour Party in the budget conciliation. It is important to mention matters, because the statements from the Government on these matters may indicate a very large degree of history in the department. The State Secretary, from the Right, of the Ministry of Education, in the Official Journal of Bergen earlier in the fall, said: ‘The school is probably important for the behind-the-scenes, but it is not important enough for the country.’ That's what I think is quite an unlikely statement. Norway’s Red Cross joined the school on the basis of value choices on the integration of disabled people and the emphasis on human rights, humanitarian values and environmental issues based on Nordic traditions and practices. Its strong international angle and the integration of elephants from refugee camps, conflict areas and developing countries contribute to countering racism and the fear of the future. If it's not important for the country, I don't understand. I hope that the Government has now recognised that this proposal was a total record bomb, and that United World College will continue to do the important work in the future, in peace for the Government's cut-off proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e426	The State budget is economic governance, but it must also meet the challenges of society. The Labour Party has therefore prioritised the fight against unemployment in its alternative budget and a better community economy that provides more for schooling and care and health security. A defensively tight fiscal policy, a lower interest rate and a lower dollar rate are so absolutely important for business, especially competitive business. But that's not enough. When nearly 112,000 are out of work, it clearly shows that we need a more active and targeted industrial policy. Of the 10 billion kroner the Labour Party has redispatched in its budget proposal, we have therefore seen half of the measures to create work for everyone. We want to strengthen our industrial rights tooling, and give the county councils the opportunity to carry out the job they are prepared to do, with regional development. Many areas of nutrition are in a difficult time, but at the same time we see that many of these industries are just areas where we have the authority to close down here in the country, if we're willing to bet here. In addition, we will also increase the effort on transport by about a billion to improve accessibility, among other things. for business, and we will facilitate the industrial exploitation of natural gas. Now it is important to prevent the high unemployment rate from getting stuck. We must prevent those who are unemployed from falling out of work, but make it possible to strengthen their qualifications and potential for active work in new jobs. That is why we are proposing 12,000 more sites than the government provided. These will be used for differentiated provision of professional practice, pay supplements, temporary work arrangements and regular training. When the government talks about a better school and care services, it only becomes a word when they in the draft budget added to a further deterioration in the local economy. On the contrary, if the Government's proposal were accepted, it would result in a poorer schooling and care provision. The accumulated deficit in the municipal sector is approaching NOK 12 billion, and there are over a hundred municipalities that are placed under the special supervision of the government because of the poor economy. The municipalities have had and have a failure in the tax revenue of the last year that exacerbates the situation. If welfare services are to be targeted, the local economy must be strengthened. Therefore, the Labour Party proposes in its budget option to increase its free revenues by DKK 3.5 billion. This gives room to extend the day of school in the small ball by three hours a week and to reintroduce the lending scheme of teaching materials in the secondary school. The proposed VAT compensation for municipalities and counties goes against the Labour Party in our draft budget. There may be large unintended distribution effects between municipalities and the purpose and effect of VAT compensation will increase the purchase of private goods and services rather than self-production. The Labour Party believes that there is a need to stop further competition in health care and care for the elderly until the consequences are properly evaluated. The Labour Party is very disparate in the direction of the Bondevik government policy. But there are not many for our draft budget in this Chamber. That's why I'm glad that, through the budgetary agreement, we've managed to stop something from the right turn. 5 billion more for employment, school, care for the elderly and health means a better budget than what was the government's starting point. In addition, we received, among other things: stop the proposal for more temporary addition and submit to the AFP scheme for tightening up. We would like to have our package of measures against unemployment. It would give 24 000 more jobs. But when we still got increased bets on SND, strengthened the net pay system for seafarers, more for research, development and transportation, then there's a bit on the way. We got SEK 2.2 billion more for the local government sector and thus a better situation for the municipalities, which is now discussing cuts and contractions. For one thing is what we primarily want, but it's at least as important as what we get, for the benefit of people. That is why we believe that we are so absolutely lit up with this budgetary agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e445	The government's draft budget and the budget agreement are a very good budget for education and research. Firstly, the allocation of research is increasing by approx. DKr 1.1 billion. R & D appropriations from the State budget will thus amount to 0.86 pst. of GDP, which means a significant increase in just a few years. Norway, together with Sweden, now has the strongest growth in public R & D funds. In Finland, public research appropriations have stagnated, while they have fallen in Denmark and Iceland. At the same time, the TAX FUNN scheme continues, which since 2002 has made it possible to authorise the deduction of projects of more than DKK 11 billion. Overall, this gives an image showing that it is demanding, but still possible, to achieve the OECD target in 2005. The Norwegian Research Council now estimates, based on some assumptions, that Norway’s R & D effort can be 2 pst. of GDP in 2004. Whether we achieve the OECD target in 2005 will not be clear until 2007, but there are opportunities. In spring 2005, the government will promote a new communication on research policy, including: to discuss future ambitions and the content of research policy. All the same, we can sum up by saying that the previous research report, which was promoted by the Bondevik I government, has not been a paper tiger. Rather, it has followed up well, especially in the last two years, in terms of research appropriations, tax incentives, strategic fields of action and purely quality measures. An important example is the establishment of 13 centres for excellent research. Secondly, the quality reform in higher education is fully financed under this budget. It probably belongs to the rarest entities in our political life that even those affected by a political reform and to implement it, even believe that the reform is funded as intended. For me this has been important and necessary. Quality reform is a great boost. It is the transformation of time into the university and higher education sectors and involves the temporary shifting of resources, time and attention from research to education. I use the opportunity to pay tribute to all those who work in the sector, including the students, for the work that is now being done. The investment in the university and higher education sectors in 2004 also represents a record investment in construction, scientific equipment and scholarships. Thirdly, there will also be significant growth in the means of quality development in primary and secondary education. These include: means provided for the development of the national quality assessment system, for anti- bullying, for the strengthening of literacy and real-life skills and for the development of skills for teachers and school leaders. In addition, the budgetary agreement implies that the increase in the hour starting in 2002 will continue in 2004 and, of course, in 2005, as the quality committee notification will also be finalised. An increase in the number of hours does not in itself imply a quality improvement. It is therefore important that implementation takes place only after the notification has been processed. The school-building loan scheme is also stepped up, as provided for – or as a little more than foreseen. Norway is now in a clearly positive trend in research. We spend more on research in both the private and public sectors, and we spend a lot more on quality in research. Even in higher education, Norway is now well advanced, among others. in implementing the requirements contained in the Bologna Declaration aimed at creating a single European area of higher education. The quality reform of higher education will help to strengthen quality, study intensity, internationalisation and social and business contacts. In the coming year, therefore, there is the big news about primary and secondary education, which is being promoted to spring, which will engage the Stortinget most strongly. The setting of the quality committee, together with extensive research and evaluation of the Norwegian school, shall form the basis for the notification. A good part is already done. We have a lot to be proud of, but there's also room for improvement. We know that there are large and systematic differences between students, that too many students have too weak skills in, among other things. the basic subjects and that the progress in secondary education is too weak. The main challenges seem to be to better adapt and differentiate training and to achieve more systematic learning work, including: so that students are more motivated for learning. I look forward to a broad and constructive debate with Stortinget on these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e462	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e466	In the past, the Minister of Education has stated that increased resources are not essential for improving school quality. It's a statement that I think is a bit of a bastant. So on this nice day – where the government parties and the Workers' Party have fallen apart – I could imagine challenging her on that very wording. We in the Workers' Party believe that there is a need to strengthen the economy, both in municipalities and in schools, in order to achieve better quality. We think there's a connection between quality in school and increased resources. Through the agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party, the Workers' Party has gained an impact on an increase in the local economy, both in the form of several weekly hours in the small school and in the form of a general strengthening of the school. This means that we'll get more teachers to work, and we'll get more lessons for the students. So the challenge is, does the Council of State mean that this does not increase the quality of Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e475	Isolatedly, it doesn't increase quality. This is the recognition that has spread throughout the world, which is being discussed in all countries – rich and poor. It's a general shift of focus, from what we invest in the education systems, to what we get out of the systems, for example. because large and not easily explained differences in quality within education systems and between education and training systems have been identified. But it's clear that filling it with content can lead to increased quality. Hours, in isolation, will also lead to increased resources. That's why I said in my post that I'm glad this comes first in the autumn. Then we will have submitted the quality report, we will have dealt with it, and we can ensure that it is filled with sensible content purely professionally, but also that we have teachers who have sufficient competence – and the right one – to be able to teach the students in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e488	The loan scheme for upgrading school buildings is widely agreed in this room. But it's important that the system works according to the intention. The joint document on the discussions between KS and the Government earlier in the autumn refers to the deduction effect. The scheme has a five-year intention of freeing itself, where this government has done nothing to make it work. A change in the municipal law, either by law or by regulation, must be made so that the many municipalities that actively want to borrow in order to carry out upgrading, and that receive loans with deferred payment, do not set aside money in their accounts – even if they do not pay off – in order to obtain the liquidity they want. I've challenged two government councils on this. I challenge the Education Councils again to make sure that the necessary legislative and regulatory changes are made, so that the intention to release funds for the municipalities that make upgrades actually works.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e497	This is, of course, one of two important resource areas during this ageing period. One is that there has been a big paylift for the teachers, which is very important. The second is that there's a lot of work going on in school buildings. We're following up what's a total increase in this loan scheme, by 15 billion dollars over eight years. We're in front of the plan. Of course, we need to have the system of observation – see how it works. My impression is that, after all, it has worked well until now. However, we have recently reduced a public sample to give us a better overview of the situation of school buildings — which we do not have a good overview of — and also what can be done to prevent and repair system errors. There is no concealment that this loan scheme is a form of emergency measure, which does not actually repair basic system errors. It's much more important that we do something about this in the longer term. But, of course, we also need to have the very loan mechanism for observation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e504	The aim of the Quality Reform is to ensure that all those taking higher education receive support and guidance in the studies as well as closer follow-up and individual feedback. A key and crucial prerequisite for the success of the reform is to ensure that students are financially safe to invest in the studies. The grant and loan schemes must ensure that all those wishing to study are given the opportunity to do so, and the provision of housing must be widespread and cheap enough. The government does not adjust the student support and turns all scholarships into loans – a savings that some students with unhappiness pay, such as sick students, disabled people, those who have unhappiness with a residence address, etc. The new system adds up to creating winners and losers. The government and the Workers' Party are proposing to cut 45 million. kr in the grant to student housing. There are too few student homes being built today. My question to the Council of State is: What is the connection between student welfare and the ability to transform the reform of higher education into a quality reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e513	I believe that there has recently been a significant improvement in student funding or training support in Norway. Now we are proposing improvements for foreign students. Significant improvements have also been made for secondary school students. I believe that, although there is now a tightening of the conversion system itself, it is appropriate now that the quality reform is implemented. This means that students will receive much better guidance and follow-up along the way, and that the risk of falling off or failing to take the exam will be significantly reduced. However, if one does not get an examination for one reason or another, the scheme will be such that a loan can be converted into a grant for up to eight years after the examination. In the case of social arrangements for sick students, disabled persons or others in the Loan Fund, they are unaffected.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e522	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e525	I have registered the CEO's statements here today, which have been repeated several times. I would therefore like to open up the following: after this reconciliation between the Workers' Party and the Government is the Workers' Party, and the Workers' Party is going to be, the parliamentary basis of this government – no matter what the Workers' Party may think in that context. I note that a number of representatives from the government parties and the left side of Norwegian policy today have been on the pulpit and have been very satisfied with that almost 20 pst. by Norway's population is placed on the sideline of Norwegian policy, i.e. the Progress Party. I record that with interest, because it puts a certain template for further leadership in the policy of the National Assembly towards this government. I'm well acquainted with, and the government parties should probably also be well aware that there are a number of other heavy and big things to be treated in this room. I then register that the Progress Party is initially placed on the sideline, and that the government parties here at the house in the first round have to contact the left side of the Norwegian policy to get an impact on their policy. It's with interest I notice. I've also noticed a little different expressions from the different parties today. I have registered a very heavy disappointment in the Right. I have noticed a very severe frustration at the Christian People's Party, and especially at the Prime Minister, and I have noticed a complete silence from the Left. It is understandable that the Right is showing a great disappointment when they have now brought the country closer to a socialist government than what we have been for a long time. I get it. But my appeal to Right-wing Representatives and Right-wing Government is: The choice is chosen, the food is eaten – look forward to it! So there are other possibilities. In the Progress Party, of course – as we have always done – we must show generosity. I record that when the Progress Party provides additional funds for the municipalities, it is a poor budget. When the Advance Party provides additional funds for hospitals, it is a poor budget. When the Progress Party reduces the excesses to the sick and the weakest, it is a poor budget. Then it's simply a problem. But when the Workers' Party – on a small scale – gets an impact on a few million in these areas, the budget is suddenly a huge success. That's interesting, but it's nothing new. Prior to the budgetary negotiations on the 2004 State Budget, this ‘game’ of Norwegian policy has been under discussion. It's interesting to notice what happened in the last year. After we made a compromise with the Government on the 2003 budget, there has been a replay of Norwegian policy, and in particular from the Workers' Party, in the appeal song: too little money for the municipalities, a direct attack on the unemployed, and not least cut back on the gravitational aid. We took away the holiday money for the unemployed, we reduced the long-term period for the unemployed, we said no to the increased pay obligation for the unemployed, and we reduced the gravitational allowance in the conciliation. It was with interest that I noticed that when the Workers' Party entered into budget negotiations and got a settlement, they did not get a single penny in place compared to this. In fact, the comparison represents a deterioration compared to the budgetary agreement reached by the Progress Party in these areas. I hope it can also be resounding in 2004, but I doubt it will be. I also noticed with interest that the entrance gate for the Workers' Party to negotiate with the government parties was the point of temporary employment. I am happy to join the Labour Law Committee with its conclusion and position. If this selection presents a setting that says temporary employment might be a wise decision, I imagine it will squeak in this new construction of parties here on Stortinget. I also record that Jens Stoltenberg and others today have concluded that the Sem declaration is dead. That means that the Progress Party at all has no responsibility for this government, because the Government itself has broken its own prerequisites for further policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e546	I am also pleased that the Government Party and the Labour Party have agreed on a 2004 budget, a responsible budget which, at the same time, aims to solve important societal tasks related to work, health and education. The representative Sandberg is probably hurt, I get it, but to make it undemocratic at 20 pst. by the selectors, I thought I was strange. Actually, that's 60 pst. by the people in this Chamber who vote in favour of this budget tonight. There can be no undemocratic in it. I am also pleased that the Christian People's Party at Jon Lilletun is so liberal that he says that the budget has been better after the budget agreement. But it's relatively rare in this house that a government party says that an alternative budget is better than what they had originally. I am not surprised that it has been possible to get along with the Christian People's Party on a budget. The Labour Party has been in most of the eleven budgets I have been involved in dealing with in this Chamber. This year we have also been in agreement with the Right on a budget that has been well received around the country. That's new. In the budget adopted this evening, 250 million will be allowed. kr extra for transport – for road investment, for walking and cycling ladders, for racial protection, for railways and for other collective actions. We have signed the agreement today after a clean and orderly process that has resulted in many happy inhabitants throughout the country. In the Working Party, we are happy for these extra money. We're used to being measured based on results, not on good wishes. Of course, we're disappointed that we didn't get a pass on to the trade. The working party has 920 million. Healthy money for transport in its alternative budget. There is a lot of money, actually an unusually large addition to this goal. It's because every day we're reminded of the importance of transportation – for business and for busses. We have huge distance disadvantages in Norway in relation to most of the people we compete with. As the manager of the business environment, it is our duty to stretch far to reduce these disadvantages. Then, of course, where there is work, people will also stay. Workplaces will only be where it is possible to make progress. The working party is skeptical that the right-hand side is so one-sidedly occupied with profitability, especially when it comes to demands for pay in social institutions, such as Posten AS, NSB AS and Avinor AS. Societal cost-benefit assessments themselves may be insufficient if we want to keep up the bus charge throughout the country. The calculation rate in such calculations is for example: over twice the interest rate in question. In fact, Svinesundsbrua has been considered more profitable in Sweden than in Norway. It hangs little in hops with the way the world really is. But we will come back to this in connection with the National Transport Plan for Spring. We spend a lot of money on buying services that are very expensive on different areas of society, for example. passenger transport. What we currently do not support with so-called public purchases are long-distance day trips and some night trips. It is totally unrealistic that these trains should be able to walk around without support, and it is in the long term unacceptable that NSB AS covers the bottom of these facilities. As a result, from 2005 onwards this has to be included in the scheme of public purchases. It's not special because we're a small and scattered built country, on the contrary, it's the rule of the world. It is quite understandable that the night train in Norway must have support, when even the night train between Paris and Munich must have it. I am pleased that the Government is in favour of public procurement when it applies to night trains, but according to the Workers' Party's assessment, it should also include long-distance day trains. It's important that we invest more on the railway ahead. It's environmentally friendly, it's relatively land-consuming, it's efficient, and it leads to less pressure on our roads. So we're going to increase our permissions by 300 million. Of them, 250 million. kr for maintenance. I must also be allowed to mention that in our alternative budget, we are increasing the opportunities for investment for the double-track Asker-Sandvika and for further planning and start-up of the freight terminal at Ganddal autumn 2004. In addition to increased access to other collective actions, to road investment including racial protection, walking and cycling ladders, to maintenance and to fishing ports, this in itself gives work to more people throughout the country. In addition, it provides for a more favourable approach to business and such reduced costs in general and time costs in particular. I'm sure Moelven Industrier ASA is more busy with E6 than tax havens, and that those who live and work in that area are part of it. There is some fundamental flaw in the right-hand side’s view of profitability in this sector. You can't look at a trade bet as normal expenses. Rather, it is to be seen as ‘expenditure on the acquisition of income’, to put it in bookcases.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e572	The government's budget for the Storting is a budget for work, for well-being and for renewal. And when the main features of this budget are preserved through the compromise, we have every reason to be satisfied, not so that the compromise is better than the budget we originally submitted – although there is reason to rejoice over individual items – the whole would have been a wish as we originally submitted it. But it is nevertheless solid within the limits that can be set, and it is a budget that preserves the main features of what is the Government's line, and in what it is important for the Government to implement. To the right, there are three things I want to highlight in particular. One is that it is a responsible budget. It is a further contribution to keeping interest rates and exchange rates in check, and that is at the core of the work to maintain and create jobs. It's a main question. It is a budget that ensures that education and research are among our high priority objectives. We're going in the right direction. It is also a budget that is not in any way negative to the third main point, namely that this country needs tax relief. The government has already paid NOK 20 billion. Yes, this budget, too, is a budget in the right direction, although the amounts this time are small. But there is reason to rejoice that the small change we have proposed regarding the housing tax has been preserved through the decision taken later this evening. So this is a budget that goes in the right direction in relation to this main objective as well. Once we have reached agreement with the Workers' Party, which is new and historic in an area like this, it is because both the Workers' Party and the Government's parties respected a very fundamental premise, namely that one has respect for each other's pain points. And that's not promoted claims that you knew it would be impossible to go into. It also means, of course, that we have to give some of the things that are important to us – which hurt the working party the most – and that is why we accepted changes that led the Workers' Party to achieve important results in this budget as well. But it is in the nature of the compromises that we make sure that everyone wins. The tax question has now been one of the key issues in this debate. I noticed one of Jens Stoltenberg’s wordings when he spoke about the tax level in 2001 as ‘we lived well with’. I have two comments to make on this. One is that the Workers' Party did not live well with the tax level in 2001. The Labour Party lost its government power because of the level of taxation in 2001. It was a tax uprising that led to a government change. But if the Workers' Party believes that the level – DKK 20 billion higher – is something you live with, yes, we know what we have in store if the Workers' Party comes to political power, so that they can fully achieve their goals. Then it is not just this year's DKK 5 billion that is in their primary proposal, which is coming, then at least the other DKK 15 billion will come as well. It would put both individuals and businesses in a much worse situation than the one we now have. It tells us that despite the fact that we have now reached an agreement on the 2004 budget, it is clear that at the moment when the Labour Party has the power to fully implement its positions, for example by: To get a sufficient majority behind us in 2005, we will have to assume that we are facing a completely different political course in Norway. That is why I have no illusion that we are not faced with very important road choices and debates on road choices in the years leading up to 2005. This consensus has not nullified this choice question, because the Workers' Party and we are looking at different key issues, even though we are now able, under today's assumptions, to reach agreement. Then we'll see tax settlement, we'll see it in terms of reforms, the freedom of choice society, and whatever it might be. I'm not going to comment on the Progress Party so all the world a lot, except to congratulate Siv Jensen for finally feeling peace by coming up with the correct history description, namely that it was the Progress Party that broke. What's interesting is that the Progress Party in this way also cuts off political influence and political power. I would like to remind the People's Party of one thing: when they break a debate in this way, they are not able to deliver political results to their voters either. That's perhaps what the Advance Party's voters are going to be interested in in in time to come. The progress party could have had influence if they had considered themselves to be the Workers' Party, but they declared themselves and could not deliver results to their voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e588	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e592	After the budgetary conciliation, the Right has almost expressed a relief to avoid having to deal with the Progress Party. Right, $12 billion in new tax reliefs. They may only be implemented with the support of the Progress Party. The structural changes desired by the Right may only be implemented with the support of the Progress Party. How will the Government implement a policy that the Right wants, if they do not want to deal with the Progress Party? Or is the Right now also ready to give up the tax promises of Shem, as the Prime Minister seems open to?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e601	I have expressed no relief at not having to deal with the Progress Party. We gave the Progress Party the opportunity to reach agreement with us by addressing the Progress Party first. If they had negotiated as professionally as the Workers' Party did, we would have agreed with the Advance Party. And that would have been absolutely excellent. What I have expressed some relief over – not just some relief, but a great relief – is that we have escaped this game that was part of the Advance Party's policy. I think Norwegian policy is pleased with that. I think people have seen the Progress Party enough in and out of doors, thunderous, flashing and angry. I think they're happy that the budget deal happened with dignity this time. What Schjøtt-Pedersen pointed out very correctly is that the Advance Party, if they play their cards properly, can exercise influence in the right direction. He is quite right that if the Progress Party joins the debate next year, they will have cut off the opportunity to deliver results to their own voters, and I think the voters will be able to punish them for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e608	The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that the budget was based on compromises. I see from the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Labour Party that they want to reduce the cap. 163, Emergency aid, humanitarian aid and human rights, with 55 million. kr. On the other hand, the Progress Party wants to strengthen this area by 400 million. kr, as it is important to help people flee from disasters, wars and oppressive regimes. Many countries have regimes that help to widen the spread of corruption and that aid is involved in segmenting the regime. My question is: will the Minister of Foreign Affairs contribute to the needy benefit of the funds allocated to aid and not disappear in administration or to make the rich rich even richer?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e619	At this point, Stones have been praying long before he has asked, because there has been a clear line from this Government to really ensure that the means of assistance that are granted come to the ends, they lead to development, they help the poor in the world, and there is no aid to go to the rich in the developing countries. The fact that the Advance Party is also cutting very significantly in the aid funds was something that Steinzacht did not mention, but I would like to stress that. I can understand him if he thought that the aid was going completely wrong, but it is that the government is now running a policy that makes us really get out of the aid so that he could have voted in favour of the proposal that the government has presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e626	I noticed that in today's business the last day, Erna Solberg said that she was not particularly excited about these two billions that lay in the agreement, because it prevented privatisation, competitive outsourcing and municipal mergers. I notice that it from the Right-Speakers today is a little blatant what they should really mean. What we now experience is that they dissociate their partner and their parliamentary basis on the one hand, while flagging a policy that they know they can only get through with the same party, namely the Progress Party. I'm recording this, and the whole post to Jan Petersen really says the same thing. He says, as opposed to e.g. Lilletun, that this was not a better budget than what was originally provided. I understand that the Right is saying, because this has not gone in the Right direction. But what I think we can conclude with, and as we've registered through this day, is that we have a party in government that's used to winging. It was called wing-left before in the world. Now it's so small that there's almost no one to notice whether they're angled or not, but I think it's probably the right that's now taken over this vignette. What we are witnessing in this treatment of the state budget is a new party in Norway – wing-right, without direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e633	Djupedal now had so many thoughts in one minute that I had some problems getting hold of his reasoning. I just want to remind him of the following: he described the budget that was presented at the beginning of October, as a right-wing budget. 99.3 pst. of which the budget has been preserved, and it was to refute the thesis he is now putting up with. I would also like to mention that when Erna Solberg spoke out, not in the way that Djupedal now mentioned, but said about the extra dollars for the municipalities, it was a reminder that now you do not have to use that money just to avoid making the necessary changes, because then you do not get the extra resources into the municipal system. But if you could both get this money into the municipal system and at the same time keep pressure on the changes, you could get more money for services in the municipalities. That's what's so desperate about the watering down to Djupedal, that he's more concerned about doing things the old way than making sure that the municipalities change, so that you get new money for more services. If this is the case, if you don't get the conversions, then you're really getting the same distance, unfortunately. It's Djupedal's line, but it's not the Right Line.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e642	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e645	There has been considerable disagreement about the government’s handling of the classified employer’s fee. The more positive it is that a broad consensus has been reached on the further handling. Norway is not required to increase the levy to the highest level for all parts of the economy. Establishments not operating in competition with other EEA countries may retain the current charge. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinge today unanimously – and with the government’s agreement – decides that the Government should design a regulation which, as far as possible, will continue to pay a graduated fee in both the public and private sectors. With this, more companies will be able to keep the low charge of the day. And it will be easier to target the compensation measures to those affected. The agreement on the next year’s government budget does not form the basis of the Government’s work programme. On the contrary, the agreement is based on the Government’s departure from essential parts of its work programme. It has gone away from the narrow limits of the local economy. It has also disregarded the passive employment and labour market policies and has disregarded the proposals to weaken workers' employment protection through the use of temporary posts. The Labour Party has put forward a proposal for a State budget in which we will strengthen efforts to secure work for all. We have presented a proposal for a budget in which we strengthen the school offer and care provision in the municipalities. Unfortunately, we must note that the Labour Party does not receive a majority in its draft budget. The Labour Party believes that it is not enough to add 2.2 billion kroner to the Government's budget proposal to the municipalities. With such an increase, many municipalities will still wear heavily. That's why we proposed 3.5 billion, and a plan to correct the imbalances in the local economy. The Labour Party believes that there are not enough 6 000 action sites in addition to the Government’s proposals. With such an increase, many will still stand without an offer. That's why we proposed 12,000 places. The working party does not believe that it is enough to strengthen the hospitals' economy by half a billion kroner. That is why we proposed a strengthening of NOK 1 billion. But the strengthening of the municipal economy, the hospital economy and the efforts to combat unemployment that we have now been given to the government parties make it equally full that the budget is significantly better than the government proposed. Obviously, it also means a lot of way into the government parties. When the state budget came on 8 October, the Christian People's Party rapporteur in Gjesdal said: ‘After what Mr. Bondevik and Mr. Valgerd said in the election campaign, I had hoped for a strong lift. This is not exactly something to clapp to." The Christian People's Party County Rapporteur in Hordaland said: ‘The budget is a disaster for the county.’ After the conciliation with the Workers' Party, the mood is better: the rapporteur, in Svelvik, says: "This is more than expected... for us, the increased transfer means that SFO and kindergartens are being rescued. That is very pleasing.'The rapporteur of the Christian People's Party in Skjervøy says: 'The Aps proposal follows up what the grassroots in KRF has asked for.' Maybe not so strange that Jon Lilletun also says that the budget has improved. The Labour Party has obviously given the Christian People's Party the opportunity to find more of itself again in the budget. But there are more skeptics. Minister of State Erna Solberg makes it clear that a new budget from her is hardly going to be as rusty. "I'm afraid that the long-term migration programmes will fall a little out of focus next year," she says. So the natural question is, what does the government do? Right expects 12 billion in extra tax credits in next year's budget. Then there will be little or nothing left for better schooling and care for the elderly in the municipalities. Jon Lilletun and the Christian People's Party say the budget has improved through the influence of the Workers' Party. It is possible to choose better schools, better care for the elderly and lower unemployment rather than new tax incentives for those who have the most. Right-wing tax promises will not be carried out with the assistance of the Workers' Party. After the fall of our own draft budget, the Labour Party may vote in a subsidiary way for the amended proposal of the Government Parties, it is precisely because the government parties have had to abandon their programme. They have removed the right profile from the budget. Then the Government also knows that new proposals with the Right profile will not be supported by the Workers' Party, but will depend on support from the Advance Party. That's the government's choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e703	There is every reason to be very satisfied with this year's budgetary settlement with the Labour Party. But it's not like Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen now said that the government through this has gone away from its program, as he said, that is. The Sem statement. In this budget, the Government assumes that large parts of what is our objective, as set out in the Sem Declaration, can be implemented. But the Workers' Party has helped to bring peace, to create predictability in an unpredictable political situation. That contribution has been appreciated by people, and of course the Workers' Party also deserves praise for having contributed to it. The Christian People's Party is pleased that we got a further boost in political areas that we prioritise. An extra effort for those who are struggling in a tough labour market and an additional commitment to well-being, school and health is among other things. results of the negotiations. The government's draft budget contains very important areas of activity for the Christian People's Party: increasing efforts on small children's families with a full follow-up to the childcare conciliation fight against unemployment strengthening the community economy reinforced the fight against poverty at home and making a significant effort on public transport to bring about new environmentally friendly energy production to mention some important items. The government has managed to implement this budgetary agreement without spending more money. This is an important prerequisite for taking care of the workplace. The tight budgetary framework is therefore firm, and the Government has thus demonstrated both the ability to manage and negotiate. At the same time, government parties, together with the Workers' Party, are ready to find room for an additional commitment to well-being, school and health. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are particularly pleased with the measures taken against poverty, both nationally and internationally. Sharing some of our own abundance with the world's poorest should be a quality feature of Norwegian society. At the same time, we also need to ensure that economically disadvantaged groups at home secure their legitimate share of welfare growth. The labour force is our most important resource. Further development of Norwegian industry and business depends on workers with commitment, competence and experience. Thanks to the targeted focus on technology development, together with a highly skilled workforce, we have succeeded in establishing world-class products that are competitive and in demand. This applies not least in the petroleum and supplier industries. Here we also see great opportunities for development if we can only find good solutions to how we can facilitate further activity, both on our own base and on the outside. The possibilities are many. That is why we need everyone too! High unemployment is a waste of both human and financial resources. Now we see an emerging optimism in business. However, before improving the labour market situation, it is important to provide a wide range of instruments to maximise the support needed to return to work. The rapid increase in electricity prices towards the end of last year put the spotlight on our dependence on the intention of the hydropower system. The price outlook that followed the market imbalance caused great dissatisfaction among the people and led to a strong societal debate on security of supply, liberalisation of the power market and electricity prices. I have a great deal of understanding of this. Today, flooding in the reservoirs is still low compared to previous years. This is partly linked to the very dry harvest of the year last year. However, relatively low hydropower production and high imports of power during this year have contributed to the return of magazine filling at the same level as in 2002. Warehouse development is currently also more favourable than last year. In addition, the experience of the last winter's strenuous force situation makes us better prepared at the entrance of a new winter. It is the government's clear goal that there will be enough electricity at acceptable prices, both for households and business. The government sees it as crucial that a longer-term energy supply policy be put in place. A long-term strategy must address both production, distribution and consumption. As I have previously announced, the government before Christmas will present to the Stortinget a separate message that draws up a policy for security of supply for electricity. The commitment to gas power stations with CO2 management is a key element of the Government's energy policy. This effort is an important element in strengthening energy supply in such a way that one can also achieve the climate objectives. In this context, Norway has signed a cooperation agreement with, inter alia: The United States and the EU on the development of CO2 management technologies that make them commercially and widely available. This creates a new hope of achieving the goal of introducing gas power plants with CO2 management in the Norwegian energy supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e746	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e749	Unemployment is dramatic. More than 5,000 people have lost their jobs in the oil industry in the last year, and increases in the number of unemployed are reported. The employment situation in the supplier industry is dramatic, and something needs to be done. The working party and the government parties at Stortinget agree that we want the development path in the oil sector, not the weather path. This in turn implies opening up new areas for exploration and production of oil and gas. Does the Minister for Oil and Energy agree that the development path should be followed and thus lead to increased employment in industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e757	The representative of Klungland touched on a very important topic, namely unemployment. I also spent some time in my post touching this important point. I believe that the area for which I have a constitutional responsibility, namely oil and gas business, can contribute in an interesting and important way to creating jobs and jobs. Now, the challenge is to maintain the jobs that are really there, because we see that investments can turn out to be smaller in the future. I believe that we can maintain the long-term development plan, and the government's policy is to facilitate that we can make better use of the mature areas on Norwegian pedestal, develop new technologies and adapt the framework conditions so that this becomes profitable, while opening up new areas. While it is demanding in relation to the important balances to be made, both in terms of the environment and fisheries, it is the Government's ambition to find good, balanced solutions to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e764	This and former governments, with the Workers' Party at the head, are responsible for the situation we now have in the power market. These batches have been involved in and prevented the development of new hydropower. There are many examples of – Upper Otta and the last Sauda extension – and no gas power plants are being built either, for example. due to the political uncertainty created with regard to CO2 emission requirements. The Minister of Energy is constantly talking about the construction of gas power plants with CO2 management, but it is a technology that is eight to ten years ahead when it comes to a full scale. The Workers' Party – the new partner of the Government – is constantly calling for the construction of gas power plants within the framework of our climate commitments. My question to Steensnæs is: Can conventional gas power plants be built within the framework of our climate obligations? Then I'm talking about the technology that's available today.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e771	I would first like to stress that, when we are going to improve security of supply, first of all, we need to produce more energy into the Nordic market. There, the political system of changing governments and changing magnificence has neglected. It is that we have a lack of sufficient energy production today. We have to do something about that, and this government has done something about it. This minister has granted concessions to twice as many hydroelectric power plants, calculated in kilowatt-hours, to all governments in the 1990s. But there is no one-sided focus on one type of energy production. In particular, we need to increase the energy production that is independent of rainfall, and then gas power plants also come in with CO2 management. In the case of gas power stations, to which this government will grant concession, it acknowledges the three concessions already granted. We aim to be able to build the other gas power plants with CO2 management, in line with the climate commitments undertaken by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e780	The last state council said now, was very interesting, because a gas power plant is to be built on Melkøya in connection with the expansion of Snow White. The SFT has granted a concession, but this concession is contrary to what is the Government's basic document, the Sem-Declaration. Einar Steensnæs confirmed right now that the government is standing by the previously granted concessions, but that it does not want to give new ones. The Melkøya plant in connection with the Snow White deployment will emit 920,000 tonnes of CO2 and will be a completely conventional, old-fashioned gas power plant of the type that we know about, and that I understand the Government does not want. It is agreed that a pilot CO2 management system should be built. This has been one of the government's trademarks related to gas power plants. Only in parentheses, it was also the question of gas power plants that caused the Bondevik I government to go off, so for the government, this is not any question. This is an important question, the most important one for the previous Bondevik government. My challenge to the Council of State is then: Is it perhaps reasonable to build this pilot plant linked to Melkoya, to the conventional gas power plant that has been authorised by the SFT? That permission is denied to the Government, and so the Government can set terms or say no, as the Government wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e787	With regard to the energy policy of the Cooperative Government, it was the subject of quite thorough discussions at Sem. The Sem-Declaration clarifies what agreement was reached between the three cooperating parties: three gas power stations on Kårstø, Kollsnes and in Skogn, and also Snow White. Snow White is then explicitly mentioned in the agreement to which the three cooperation parties are party, and the Snow White project includes, of course, an energy plant that can ensure that the gas is treated and that CO2 is returned to the reservoir. As far as these pilot plants are concerned, I find it very interesting to have proven techniques that are actually available, but one that is not yet sure is the most cost-effective. In the budget agreement with the Workers' Party, we have committed ourselves to bringing back a support scheme for the construction of such pilot plants. The most natural place to put these is where the gas is already available, whether it's Snow White, on the Rocket, Kollsnes, Mongstad and Kårstø, which are the most relevant places.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e794	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e797	Budgetary treatment offers that the Government and the majority of the population wish the sum of taxes and taxes to continue at a high level. For the Progress Party, it is a disappointment that the Government has reduced the priority of tax relief in its next year. This will contribute to new job losses. The tracks are freaking out. From the third quarter of last year to the third quarter of the current year, industry lost 21 000 jobs. We're experiencing an industrial death that almost lacks similarity. The export industry is weathering or flagging out, and hardly new companies are being created in international format. If we are to take our jobseekers seriously, we need to reduce the pressures that make it difficult to start businesses, expand businesses and stay in Norway. I would like to take a few examples of what is important for the Progress Party: we want, among other things. reduce and permanently eliminate the taxes on wealth, property taxes and inheritance taxes. The property tax is an unfair double taxation of values from which the State has already had revenues. In many other Western countries, the wealth tax does not exist or occurs at a much higher level of wealth and at lower rates. And when the tax on capital is out of the question with other countries, we risk losing the capital that was going to finance important projects here at home. We get unemployment as a natural consequence. If the taxes on wealth are removed, this will be an important contribution to strengthening enterprises and jobs. Today, the state confiscates sour savings to entrepreneurs and industrialists. Significant values are being taken out of businesses to pay the killing taxes on wealth, funds that are absolutely necessary to create new growth and development in our businesses. To mention some taxes that are still very high or increased, we have taxes on alcohol, tobacco, sugar and chocolate. As it is now added, we will continue to have a comprehensive border trade leak to our neighbouring countries. The General Organisation of the Commercial and Service Industries estimates this at NOK 9 billion in the current year. So we lose 9 000 jobs mainly in the commercial and service industries, but also part in the brewing industry, in relation to a balanced border trade, and which would have been largely avoidable if one had been willing to harmonise the level of charges. In fact, the budget does not contain a single concrete measure, as far as I am aware, which can help to reduce borderline leakage. The budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Workers' Party means an increase of the alcohol levy by 2.5 pst. Compared to the Government's original draft budget. This not only threatens a significant number of jobs but at the same time deprives the authorities of any possibility of controlling the placing on the market and consumption of alcohol. The Danes significantly reduced their brandy fees on 1 October. The Finns will do the same over the new year, and the Swedes will certainly follow. The government thus chooses to notify Norway out of the Nordic region on a fee-based basis. It is incomprehensible that the Government will take responsibility for an anti-business tax policy that contributes to job losses out of the country completely unnecessary. The budget option of the Progress Party means significant tax relief, yes, a two-digit billion. It is absolutely necessary for our companies to have competitive tax conditions and to survive in a competitive society. This includes, inter alia: to compensate companies for their handicaps at a high cost level, by being far from the large markets, having a small domestic market and poor infrastructure – for mentioning something. In that case, it is not useful to provide small tax reliefs. If our businesses are to be given sufficient optimism and development opportunities, the significant tax and tax burden must be reduced from one day to the next. This means a good economic policy that supports employers and makes it easier for employees, who can thus get jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e815	The left's position on the budget has been called for earlier this evening. I'd like to say something about that. Left's policy is based on our vision of a social liberal society, where people get more freedom and more responsibility. I am convinced that the ideology and ideas of the Left will grow in Norway. An emerging social liberal party will have the answers many calling for, at the intersection of increased freedom for individuals and the need for new Community solutions. The left sets the stage by industry and has both a responsible economic policy and a clear will for better conditions for knowledge and innovation. This state budget and this budget agreement clearly show that the good political solutions are at the social liberal centre where the Left belongs. This is not a budget that is characterised by the belief that increased taxes and taxes in the workplace provide a better society. Labour market measures are good and good, but making it possible for many more people to dry and create their own jobs is not so stupid either. This is also not a budget marked by ‘be yourself enough’ policies. It is a fairly strong unsocial announcement when the Progress Party wants the world’s richest country to spend $6.6 billion less on aid to the poorest in the world next year. It is a policy of a social liberal party to which the Left can never give its support. The 2004 government budget is on the contrary a budget with a clear left-wing stamp, a budget for more offensive environmental policies, for innovation and jobs, and for helping the poorest at home and out. The government has provided a historically good budget for public transport. I am pleased with that, both as Minister of Transport and as the Left Council of State. In metropolitan areas in particular, increased use of public transport is a necessary health and environmental alternative to increased use of cars. To put it simply, just as people and businesses in the districts need a better place, it is worth choosing environmentally friendly in the city, measured in terms of money, time and comfort. For 2004, therefore, the Government proposes close to DKK 1 billion in increased appropriations and reduced charges for just public transport. This effort is fully retained in the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party. The Government has proposed a VAT reform that provides an overall annual profit for the operation of public transport of about 500 million. kr. I would strongly encourage all the local politicians in the country to make this benefit to the travellers. In addition to the large tax reliefs, the Government introduces its own reward scheme for moving from car use to public transport in the five major urban areas. The money must be in addition to the money already used locally today. No previous government has ever put in place such state-aid schemes for local public transport. The cities now have a unique opportunity to provide people with better collective services and reduce car use. Finally, let me point to a small part of the budget for transport that is of great importance for the future. Next year, we are proposing a doubling of the allocation for tests on hydrogen and zero-emission technologies in the transport sector. Greenhouse gas emissions present us with a challenge. We need to find the best alternatives to fossil fuels. That job has now been taken up too fully by the government. The choices we make today determine what technology, environment and society will look like in ten, twenty and thirty years' time. So far, a politician must be able to see, even though, in the age of populism, it is more tempting to focus firmly on the next evening’s ‘Holmgang’. The left is not a populist party – we should still dry to be long-term, visionary, responsible and cooperative. In this way, Norway is getting better, and this state budget is giving direction to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e854	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e857	I don't feel the need to discuss the ideological foundation of social liberalism today. I choose to focus on what is the actual everyday life. Then I would like to remind you that the Minister for Transport is constantly insisting on what she stands for in politics, and what this government stands for in the draft budget is a clear commitment on the railways, which can be called historic – and I think she means historically high. Then it's kind of strange to experience another everyday life – and I don't think I'm alone about it – that shows a completely different and partly dramatic situation. We see a railway that has actually received a deficit of $1 billion, which is in dramatic decline. And then my question is, can the absence of the Council of State be caused by the fact that when she talks about a historic bet, is it in the sense that with this government's investment on the railway, Norway is soon without a railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e865	I would probably have been more concerned about the railway had the last working party government continued with the policy that we had at the time in the railway field. Fortunately, we now agree on the railway operation this year, which involves almost 40 pst. increase in investment. That's what I'd call a record high stake in rail investment. It is important that we focus on a renewal of the railway, and therefore we are committed to getting new rail investments where the railway has its advantage. That's why we have mainland Norway's largest facilities on rail just outside Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e872	The flagship of the Government’s collective effort is the incentive scheme for public transport in major cities. In the election campaign, the left flew around and had 200 million. kr, as they used one, two, three and four times – in Bergen, Trondheim, Stavanger, Oslo and Kristiansand. When the budget was submitted, the scheme was reduced and the government proposal was to grant 110 million. kr to this scheme. After the agreement with the Workers' Party, it is further cut, by 25 million. kr. And my question to the Council of State is, what kind of signals does this send to you for the first year you're going to put in the incentive scheme, make a settlement to cut it from the very beginning?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e877	It is absolutely right that this reward scheme was important to us when we were going to present this budget, and it was an important follow-up to the collective communication. It was also an addition to the bet of about SEK 1/2 billion a year that no one had talked about before in this budget, and which I would say is a record bet on public transport. Then this incentive scheme comes along, so the bet we're talking about on the collective side, is a lot bigger than what we talked about in the election campaign. The incentive system is important for us to succeed, I think, in order to make a transition in big cities from car traffic to public transport. The agreement now concluded by the Government and the Workers' Party does not involve any cuts in public transport. There's been a redistribution, but the collective effort is the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e886	So, after the budgetary agreement is a fact, according to the adopted national transport plan, there are now DKK 1.5 billion in road investment. If you're going to base the Sem statement, which says you're going to increase the appropriations by 600 million. SEK per year, in addition to the national transport plan, has now fallen to NOK 3,3 billion. And if you look at it in the context of the calculation rate used by the Norwegian authorities for road projects, for example, you can get the consequence that the construction of Svinesundsbrua is declared unpaid by the Norwegian authorities, while it is very profitable by the Swedish authorities. Is it a context to track here, that the government has chosen to invest in such a high rate of calculation in order to be able to prove in a way that there are so many unprofitable road sections in this country that you just don't have to afford money for it? Or what's really become the government's transport policy? It's very hard to understand, and I could imagine the Minister for Transport clarifying this.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e893	Those who have looked carefully at the budget have seen that there is a solid increase in our draft budget on the road side compared to the previous year. In this budgetary agreement, we have added yet another increase in road traffic, so I would say that the road effort in the 2004 budget is very strong. Now, of course, we can have a little discussion about what are the real figures in relation to the national transport plan and the action plan. I don't think that's really interesting. The most important thing is that we have a solid commitment on the road and on the road. The calculation rate is not a measure adopted politically. With regard to calculations on the Swedish and Norwegian sides, I would like to remind you: Where are we building, and where have we seen projects in relation to E6 against Sweden? Well, right at Svinesund, we're in the middle of a project now. So in that context, the calculation rate has little to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e902	President! I would like to clarify a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e907	Siv Jensen – to a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e910	The Council of State now said that the national transport plan was uninteresting. Is it to understand that when the Stortinget takes decisions on a transport plan, it does not matter when the Government intends to follow it up in budgetary practice? This has to be resolved by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e915	What I find uninteresting is that the representative, Siv Jensen, refers to what the Sem Declaration says in addition to the national transport plan, because she refers in practice to the action programme – and these are two different sizes. That's what was uninteresting to discuss, what numbers you're referring to. The point is that we are in good working order both in relation to the national transport plan and in relation to the Sem declaration. It's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e922	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e925	For the last two years, almost 40,000 people have lost their jobs in Norway – there are over 50 new job vacancies every day. This year we will set a new Norwegian record in the number of bankruptcies, and the number of start-ups is falling. The government has not taken this situation seriously. The government budget proposal also did not take the increased unemployment seriously. Despite the strong growth in unemployment, the government is proposing many cutbacks in the schemes that could and would help to get new jobs. Again, a cut in the SND, a proposal for a cut in the food-based design programme, government cuts in the culture-based industry development programme, government cuts in the fisheries sector programme, reduces the Husbankan lending framework, government cuts in the greenhouse gas infrastructure lines, and Government does not follow up its Norwegian seafarers' net pay decisions. This is bad, but the worst of all is the Government's proposal for drastic changes in the rules of permeability. These proposals must either be based on a total blindness and total overrule of their own ideology, or a total lack of knowledge about the situation in Norwegian business today. The proposals would have very negative consequences if they were implemented. An additional number would have been cancelled and lost their job. Of course, this is very serious for those in debt, but it is also very bad for those companies that would lose the workforce on which they depend for new jobs. The reactions of industry to these proposals have been clear. The suggestions would have been very serious if they had been implemented. I am therefore pleased that the Labour Party has contributed to reducing the damage caused by the Government's policy. We have extended the leave period from 26 to 42 weeks, and we have reduced the employer's pay obligation from 30 to 10 days. In a newspaper lookup in my part of the country, company managers now stand up and say that the agreement has done that completed delivery letters have been put back in drawers. The agreement has helped to increase optimism, and the agreement has made these companies better equipped to meet the future. For us in the Labour Party, it wants everyone to have a job to do, to be the most important thing. That is why our budget line has had employment and active industrial policy as a red thread. We saw from SEK 4.8 billion for action for work for all, we have a more active policy for innovation, we are investing in research and development, in culture-based business development and in design. We have an active tourism policy, for the furniture industry, for the construction industry, for the yard industry, and we're continuing the net pay system for Norwegian seafarers, just to name some of the things we're betting on. Like the EU, which has set up an active industrial policy in its Lisbon strategy, Norway should also pursue such an industrial policy. We think, in fact, that the government's business neutrality has played down. Through the agreement with the government party, we in the Labour Party get a huge impact on many of our proposals, thus helping to create tools or tools to reduce unemployment in Norway. One of the results of the agreement with the government party is that the government must now be on the track to remedy the situation that will soon arise in Høyanger and Årdal. It's really bad that there has to be a roll-up decision to get the government to do what it should have done a long time ago. But I'm still happy that we can finally start an active policy towards these communities, and I can promise that in the Workers' Party we will follow the government's follow-up at this point with the archeological eyes. Over 20,000 industrial workplaces have been lost in the last year. Many today seem to be concerned about this. However, there must be reason to ask: How serious is this concern? The biggest problem for Norwegian competitive industry in the last year has been the high dollar rate and the high interest rate. Nevertheless, those parts of this room that are not part of the agreement have increased the use of oil money as part of their arrangement, which would, after all, lead to an increase in the price of the krona and thus reduce the possibility that Norwegian companies would be able to make progress in the future. I'm surprised one takes that risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e943	First, I would like to join those who believe that this budget agreement is a win for reason. It may also be right to describe the agreement as historical. But then it must be stressed that this is an agreement between parties that have, and still will, very different positions and different ideology in many things. But that is a good budget agreement. Firstly, the agreement fully implements the Government’s proposals on the budgetary framework and the use of oil money. Responsible financial policy is a cornerstone of reducing unemployment, and it is reassuring that the government parties and the Workers' Party are now carrying it through in the Stortinget. The agreement ensures that the very substantial simplifications achieved in monetary policy will be effective in 2004. We've managed to bring the interest rate down from 7 pst. up to 2,5 p.m. and the crown price has fallen by approx. 13 pst. since the top of January. On the right, economic policy is very important, and we are pleased to support this in the agreement with the Labour Party. Secondly, the budgetary agreement is acceptable because the Workers' Party's proposal for containment is not part of the agreement. In its alternative budget, the Labour Party has proposed a number of dramatic measures both for industry and for the majority of people, including the United Kingdom. a tax shock of DKK 3.5 billion for business. Enterprises are directly affected by NOK 1 billion more in the levy through the deferred removal of the electricity charge, and indirectly through NOK 2.3 billion in increased taxes on private ownership. It is difficult to understand the logical relationship between the Workers' Party's so-called fight against unemployment and the fact that the party is pursuing a policy that defys Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian owner environments. Tax increases for individuals are also significant in the Labour Party budget option. Top taxes, inheritance taxes and other things are increased by NOK 1.7 billion. There was just such budgetary ageing that voters would get rid of the 2001 elections. Fortunately, they will get away with that this time too. The working party is proposing to cut 400 million further. kr in the transfers to the post-secondary schools. This would be a heavy burden both for schools, for students and for parents, and a long step in the wrong direction for Norwegian school policy. In addition, the Workers' Party proposes to remove the cash support with effect from 1 January. Then thousands of young children's parents would have a monthly cut of NOK 3 657 in the family economy at one month's notice. It would, in my view, be a socially irresponsible cut, and would be able to adapt to this at one month's notice. Whatever the meaning of the cash support, it is unreasonable to take this in such a short time. The fact that the Workers' Party did not demand or obtain an impact on these key parts of the budget was essential for reaching an agreement. In fact, the agreement involves minimum adjustments on the tax side. The main lines of the Government’s fiscal policy are thus continued. So this one has an amount of almost $20 billion in relief per year. and tax relief is important for people and for business, too, in 2004. The Progress Party has had some strange reactions to the budgetary agreement. The lot is solely responsible for the lack of influence in the 2004 budget. The Progress Party had forewarned a chaotic process, where the party was to play high with both the budget and the government's future under full media attention. It didn't happen, and I think the Big One's reputation is strengthened. However, it is quite noticeable that the budget for the Progress Party has been based on creative accounting of approximately NOK 4 billion. The lot has balanced with figures from the lobby organisations of alcohol and car importers, with a reduction in sick pay without action to achieve it, and with the assumption of reduced daily pay for billions of dollars. This is, in my opinion, a little serious. Overall, about 13 billion kroner would have been spent more than what the Government is proposing, in the form of withdrawals from the oil fund, and it would have been a direct attack on competitive business. The last time the country had a high unemployment rate, I think several of the Labour Party's politicians still remember, the unemployment rate increased to nearly 177 000 unemployed. At the time it took seven years — from the increase in unemployment in 1987 to the peak in 1993. Harlem Brundtland’s passivity at that time had great consequences for many workers. Now the government is turning the shot in three years. This state budget facilitates a very solid growth in the Norwegian economy to next year. The growth in 2003 was about 0.5 pst. The forecast in the submitted budget is that the growth is fivefold in 2004, to 2.5 pst. It is obvious that next year will bring significant improvements in the labour market, in industry and in the public sector. We should be satisfied with the budget that is being adopted today, and not least with the process that led to this. I think that both the process and the result increase respect for the Biggest's work out there among the people most.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e969	This is a bathing duck. [[shown a bath duck]] After many beautiful promises and some good steps in the reforms a few years ago, developments have now turned around. Students' loans and scholarships are not subject to any cost adjustment, and it is now decided to convert the entire education grant into a so-called conversion grant, i.e. increased indebtedness for students who pass the exam, either because you have not understood the task or because you have a sick child. The proposal is typical of the bourgeois government. It shows a fundamental distrust of people's honesty in relation to public support schemes and a blind belief that whips are more effective than carrots to achieve what one has set itself as a goal. The proposal is also typical of the policies of this government, namely that it contributes to increasing the differences between people in a variety of societal areas. The differences between classes and social groups are not only increased, but also between age groups and between women and men. The bourgeois government is the government of the wealthy middle-aged men. So there's a government that's taking the goal of distributing over $10 billion in new tax letters next year, if we're going to believe more articles in the debate tonight. And if we are to believe in the distribution of the Government's most profiled tax reliefs to now, it will be precisely these wealthy middle-aged men who benefit from such a policy further as well. The richest could celebrate dividend celebrations in Norway last year with 42 tax-free billion, against only 13 billion taken out by the shareholders in 2001. 60 pst. of this dividend goes to one per cent of the country's population with gross income of more than 1 million. kr. The tax exemption on dividends is, in fact, a highly accurate instrument to make the rich rich richer and increase the differences in Norway. Besides being rich, most who receive dividends are also middle-aged men. According to the Ministry of Finance's figures, 82 psts actually go. of this tax base to men. The proportion of the top tax payable to men is 85 pst, and 62 pst. in the case of the housing tax. At the other end of the scale, we know who will pay for the government's unsocial cut, whether it's in relation to study funding, housing support, child care or propensity. It's young, women, sick and old. Increasing the economic differences in society also increases power differences and makes work for equality and inclusion more difficult. And when you increase the differences between age groups, you do something else that is also dangerous: you destroy motivation and opportunities to take education and get work – the ability to participate and contribute in the short term. Young people have low incomes, no wealth, no owner-occupiers and no special dividend at all. Youth, on the other hand, is at the top of another statistics. Young people are the group experiencing the fastest growing unemployment rate in Norway, yet the Government has no measures to take. SV has called for both own schemes to increase young people’s chances of creating their own jobs and the reintroduction of a youth guarantee. The government's only answer is a hopeless proposal to open up more temporary jobs, which would make it even more difficult for young people to get a regular job. SV is also actively targeting young people in our alternative state budget this year. I very briefly want to mention a few of the measures that we are voting for here tonight: removal of the rule on conversion-scholar school box grant for high school students increased bet on student housing and other youth housing increase of the free card limit to NOK 35000, so that more young people can become more independent of Dad's wallet Finally, I would like to mention a slightly different matter. One of the joyous things about the budget deal was that the small cut of $7 million. SEK to Hookide Vocational School in Bergen was reversed. The cut would have meant that the boarding school was shut down, and probably it would mean the end of the school. This is a school that takes in people who, for various reasons, are out of their ability to participate in professional life. It can be occupational damage, people who are struggling with different types of diseases, or people with drug problems. Over three years at Hookide, they get education and preparation to get to work. The results are very, very impressive. Over 80 pst. by the students manage the school and come out into the professional life. Removing this allocation would not only be socio-economic very poor, but it would also be taking away the opportunity to ensure that people come from social security and get into work. It would also be a hard attack on a system that allows people to gain a life that they experience as more meaningful and worthy. The cut proposal at Krokeide Vocational School was – with respect to reporting – completely insane, and I really hope it doesn't show up again in later budgets. - Now I'm going to take my second and go.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1006	For the Workers' Party, the fight against unemployment is job no. 1st@item: inlistbox Our alternative budget therefore bears a strong impact on it. Nearly 120 000 people are now in job queues. Recently we could read in Bergen’s Official Journal that only in the oil industry 5 000 jobs have disappeared in the last year and that the negative developments will continue. The situation is serious, primarily for all the individuals affected, and for their closest, but also for society. A welfare society cannot be familiar with having so many free hands. Norway is a country that, by nature, is rich in resources. Foosing power has created jobs, growth and wealth development over 100 years. This has happened because, at the beginning of the last century, we had politicians and industry leaders who would take important decisions and make long-term investments. Now we're in front of a new hundred-year-old, the hundred-year-old of gas. We can do that if we now show the will and courage to take the important and necessary decisions. As the Labour Party and I see it, there are two important prerequisites that must be in place for us to succeed in using more of our natural gas. Firstly, the gas transport infrastructure must be built up to the places that can and will use the gas. In the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we have therefore reiterated the proposal to set up a state-owned company to invest in infrastructure projects together with industry and energy companies and industry. We want to add NOK 3 billion to the company's equity. It is a state task to facilitate the development of infrastructure. There's no fundamental difference between building roads and railway, or power line, and putting pipelines for the transport of gas. That is why we believe that the state must be involved in investing in gas pipes. Unfortunately, the government parties did not want to be involved in giving this important vitamin injection to business this time either. The second important prerequisite for using more gas is that more research needs to be done on technologies for the environmentally friendly use of gas. In the Gas Communication addressed by Stortinget in the spring, the Workers' Party proposed the creation of an innovation company for the development of technologies for the environmentally friendly use of gas, hydrogen as an energy carrier and petrochemicals. We wanted the company to be set up already on 1 January 2004, and that we would spend 250 million. kr in the year over a 10-year period for that purpose. We did not get a majority for it then, but we are pleased that in the budget agreement with the government parties we have an agreement that the company should be established during 2004. From a number of quarters, there are now happy signals of great progress in the development of gas power plants with CO2 management. But if we are to be sure that we are going to get to the best technology, research must be tested in pilot plants. Such installations require large investments and it is absolutely necessary that the country also contributes to their construction. Therefore, it is very important and gratifying that in the budgetary agreement we also had an impact in order to establish a support system for the construction of gas power plant pilot plants with CO2 management as a matter of urgency. I should have said something about the power situation in Norway and how dramatic it really is, but then I probably had to have about. Ten more minutes. So it'll have to wait for the round of the budget in the committee!
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1025	Christian People's Party is a family and care party. By sitting in government based on freedom of choice and diversity, and putting people in the centre, we have the opportunity to get this policy into concrete action. Christian People's Party is the family party. The bet on families, children and young people, is bet on the future. The size of the budget is currently adopting a budget with a large and proper focus on kindergartens. An increase of 2,800 million. kr shall primarily ensure the full development of kindergartens to all those who wish to do so. The increased appropriations shall also provide for lower parental payments. It is a budget that will strengthen freedom of choice. 12,000 more children will have children's playground next year, and the level of parental payment shall not prevent anyone from choosing kindergarten as a care solution for their children. It is gratifying that today we are adopting a budget that will both lead to more and cheaper kindergartens and continue the cash support. It cannot be either kindergartens or cash support. For the Christian People's Party, it's a boat – and, so it can be a lift for all the families of children. Christian People's Party is also a cultural party. We are concerned that people have more than material needs. That is why in this government we have a Minister of Culture from the Christian People's Party, a minister who has presented the first cultural message for many years. Action on culture is a targeted investment in a warmer society. Cultural expression and artistic experience lead to increased quality of life. That's why everyone has to have the opportunity to experience it. An active local cultural life is important for children and young people. Voluntary organisations play a fundamental role. Culture provides insight and builds bridges between people and nations. It is therefore gratifying that in the Government's draft budget and in the budget we are adopting today, the cultural budget is strengthened. The main perspective of the Culture Communication was to ensure that the whole population has access to a wide and diverse range of cultural services. The many festivals play a key role in this work. In the festivals there is a lot of local commitment, good spirit and ownership. Cultural and church policy is concerned in particular with the areas affecting the human being as a spiritual being. To develop identity and integrity, children and young people must experience closeness to their own lives and to their history. In the cultural concept lies a anchoring of values that creates security, identity and transparency for the unknown. The population decided in spring to strengthen the training of children and young people in the direction of the religious and life-view societies in Norway. Self-faith training provides a basis for security on your own identity. Not least, it is important at a time when different cultures are getting closer together. It is therefore positive that the Storting decided today to grant 30 million. SEK for the reform of belief training. The Christian People's Party is occupied with local democracy. However, in order for local politicians to be able to carry out their priorities for the benefit of their citizens, they need a space for action. That is why the government's proposal to the state budget was the strongest strengthening of the municipalities in our country ever. The proposal meant a growth in the total income of municipalities of approximately NOK 3 billion. Together with low interest rates and the removal of a number of earmarked grants, a few areas of action will be provided for local politicians and better services for citizens. The challenges in the city and the countryside are many. We are now implementing an important commitment to care for the elderly, and we are building kindergartens. Because it's in the municipalities the welfare is created. That is why the National Government of the Christian People's Party and our rapporteurs earlier this month expressed the need and desire for an even stronger strengthening of the economic space in the municipalities. The leading trust elected by the Christian People's Party in the municipalities gave us a clear and clear message at Stortinget: More money for growth, more money for school and for care tasks. The budgetary agreement between the parties to the Government and the Workers' Party has been redeployed and provided for a further strengthening of the municipal economy of more than 2000 million. kr. In other words, a strengthening of the resources for school and care. A clean and sound budgetary process made this possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1046	This debate has shown almost political satisfaction with the budgetary agreement, both in terms of content and form. The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party said today that the agreement allows a good government to continue its work. However, there will be days after the adoption of this budget. What is clear is that the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party in important areas is turning policy in a different direction from that of the Government. The political right-wing revolution, which has so far been carried out with the support of the Progress Party, has been halted in important areas. The most politically interesting thing after this debate is therefore, in order to use Lilletun's words: on what parliamentary basis should this good government continue its work? For the Workers' Party, there can never be a partner for the continued implementation of the Sem-Declaration policy. Right-wing fiscal spokesman, Jan Tore Sanner, made a strong deal with the Progress Party in his speech. Among other things, he said: that this budget agreement ‘made populism a loser and reason won’. It's a bit of a kilevink to the government's midwife and support party for a right-wing policy. This government was deployed with the support of the Advance Party. It should be an alternative to the Workers' Party and lead the country to a new course. The government has done that, until now. If it has been unclear in the past, it now seems quite obvious that we have a situation in which the government parties are quite frustrated by their parliamentary base party, and the basic party is at least equal to that of the fatherchild. We have to go back to 1981 to find a big period that started and ended with a bourgeois government, and even then it ended with a civil government other than what it started with. Since 1985, three of the major periods have started with a cooperative government and have ended in a government crisis. This is the political challenge facing the government parties after this debate. It is a challenge the Labour Party cannot help the government parties, if they are serious about what they have repeated and repeated here today, that the policy of the Sem Declaration should be the basis for the work of the Government also in the last two years of this period. Finally, the representative, Øystein Djupedal, pointed out in his speech that the countries of EU cooperation now took political action in relation to a mechanical economic rule that did not work. He thought that an opening had now been given to France and Germany to derogate from the requirement of a budget deficit of 3 p.m. for the stabilisation pact. So Djupedal pointed out this as an example that the policy can work despite the fact that rules have been adopted in the past to provide a more mechanical function. I hope that Djupedal will take with him the recognition that EU cooperation is a political cooperation, into the debate SV is now leading to Norway's future relationship with EU cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1063	The budget adopted here later today is a budget that takes responsibility for Norwegian business and for competitive industry. The agreement implies that the course the Government has taken in the last two years to keep the business in the straight line can continue. International recessions, excessive interest rates compared to competitors, excessive exchange rates and excessively liberal wage settlement were in the process of creating serious problems for the competitive industry. But a responsible fiscal policy with better control over a public expenditure growth has brought interest rates down and weakened the currency. With the government's contribution, the social partners have at least one moderate wage settlement behind them and hopefully another equally ahead. The optimistic messages are coming from both industries and from individual enterprises. It shines in the Norwegian economy and Norwegian business. Government policy works, and it is expected that growth in the Norwegian economy will increase significantly in the year ahead. Then it becomes more important than ever to press forward as we sue, in a course that we now know gives results. It is therefore important that we do not embark on experimental economic policies, which yield optimistic calculations by press groups and individual industries about the dynamic effects of the economy only their projects are taken into account over the public budgets, or meet the wishes of numerous groups for expenditure increases that are individually relevant but which together increase the framework in such a way that the basis for the growth of business disappears and that expenditure increases with increased taxes. It will be the neckless act of the Government to risk what has been achieved in the form of better framework conditions for Norwegian business in the last few years. It is this recognition of the situation of Norwegian industry, which has provided the basis for a settlement between lots which, from different points of view, have seen the importance and necessity of finding responsible economic alliances within the framework at their disposal — an unusual alliance but necessary. It has been claimed here today that only the Progress Party wants to reduce taxes and taxes. That's not right. The objectives of the Sem Declaration are clear. But it's a fact that taxes are reduced less by this crossroads. The reason is obvious: growth in the economy has been weak, and space has been smaller. The level of taxation is an important framework condition for industry and for the supply of labour. As you can see, the theme has definitely received the attention it deserves in today’s debate, although the concern to improve the conditions for Norwegian business in this way is clearly high, especially in the Workers’ Party. However, what is a fact is that this government has reduced the tax by about a quarter. $20 billion in two years. If this year's budgetary settlement is historic, this tax reduction is even more historic. After a long, long period of time when developments in the tax level of both business and workers tended to only rise, the Right and Government stood by their tax promises when they were given responsibility for implementing their programmes, and made sure that we got this new line in Norwegian tax policy. The Progress Party has room for a number of higher tax reliefs in its alternative budgets, just as the use of oil money space is also significant. The point is that for Norwegian business, for workers and investors, there is little real incentive and little real tax relief for alternative budgets that only remain paperier. It is the consistency of the political will to compromise and to meet the business needs for tax relief by seeking responsible positions that produce results. Tax reliefs that are not even wanted to be implemented, at least attempted, become irrelevant for Norwegian value creation. In the extension of this, I note that the Progress Party itself now states that there is one policy for opposition life, where there is no need for containment, and one policy for any responsible positions, where containment is necessary, and where one has to think about. I think that Norwegian business would probably prefer that you think about it all the time, also in terms of finding responsible cooperation solutions. In addition, the reality of individual lots has been discussed today and whether it is real or subsidiary. Nor do I think Norwegian business and Norwegian industry care so much about that. I think the important thing is that you don't report from any of the alternative realities. It has done neither the Workers' Party nor the Government's parties in this budgetary settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1080	The main task of the Workers' Party in the next year's budget is to increase the number of people available at work, to create more jobs, to improve schooling and care for the elderly and to ensure the safety of health services. These are the main priorities of the Workers' Party's alternative budget. These were also our main requirements in the negotiations with the Government. If it had not been possible to obtain an impact on a substantial part of the main requirements, as we were given, it would not have been possible to enter into a budgetary settlement with the government parties. We in the Labour Party believe that our primary budget, which will now be reduced, had been a much better budget to meet the high unemployment rate, a much better budget to strengthen the school and offer to the elderly, and would provide families with low incomes with continued housing support. This was quite possible without the use of one more oil crown. Some of those who earn the most in this country probably had to pay something more in taxes, but not more than that it was hardly noticeable. The Labour Party wants to get a better school with more education. The key is to improve the finances of municipalities. Therefore, the Labour Party proposes in its budget to increase the free income of municipalities by DKK 3.5 billion more than the government proposed in its original budget. The agreement gave SEK 2.2 billion more to the municipalities. It was a bit on the way, but we think there's a need for more. There is a need for an escalation plan for municipalities, so that they are given more reasonable conditions than they now have. It's not that it's just Lilletun who is cheering for $5 billion more for the municipalities, for health and for the unemployed. The rapporteurs and local politicians from all parties are cheering, and the rapporteur from the Christian People's Party spoke in Nordlys on 17 November about the settlement: ‘Yes, this was the only right thing.’ On the question of whether he is more satisfied with the draft budget of the Workers' Party than with the budget of his own party, he answers: ‘Yes, the Ap proposal follows up what the grassroots in KrF has asked for.’ The Labour Party believes that the hospital reform has been successful. Several patients receive treatment, and the waiting time is shorter. The Labour Party believes that hospitals need to make the economy continue this good development. While strict requirements for improving the efficiency of health businesses are, of course, to be imposed, it is not possible to suffocate savings to those who are ill in need of treatment and to increase waiting lists again. The working party would grant an extra NOK 1 billion to the hospitals for the next year. At the same time, we believe that the economic balance must be postponed for a year, until 2005. The government parties would not be involved in this, which the Labour Party regrets. We achieved an increase of 500 million in hospital appropriations. kr. It's better than nothing. The government says they're concerned about poverty and wants to help those who have it the hardest. Then it is completely incomprehensible that the Workers' Party did not get a pass to reintroduce a higher income limit in order to receive housing support for families with children. On a proposal from the Labour Party, the Stortinget decided in the spring of 2003 that the income limit for housing aid should be raised by NOK 30 000. The decision gave 12 000 families with children the right to housing support, but the government has reversed the whole scheme. This is an important matter for us, and therefore the Workers' Party will take up the proposal again at the first crossroads. The working party is pleased that the House Bank loan framework has increased by DKK 1 billion, and even more school buildings can be refurbished up to next year. That's good. Finally, it's worrying that we have over 100,000 unemployed. The Labour Party's budget proposal provides for an active, targeted industrial policy for innovation and investment in industries where we have good prospects for creating new jobs. Our scheme would provide 24,000 more people with work or training. Increased activity in municipalities, in health enterprises and the development of infrastructure contributes to 10,000 new jobs. This would be a very good grip to bring down the high unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1115	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1118	The Workers' Party has previously submitted its alternative budget. Through the budget agreement, we have managed to contribute SEK 2.2 billion more to school and care for the elderly than what had been done by the Government. It must well be said to be a significant improvement. The budgetary agreement with the government parties is therefore a step in the right direction. Actually, we want a much bigger bet, but it was important for us to start expanding the hours in primary school already from the coming school years. The municipalities have received full compensation for this, in addition to the large billion they have received in free income. The budget agreement also means that we had an impact on an increase in the loan facility for the refurbishment of school buildings and an extension of the Husbank's loan framework. In addition, we have withdrawn the proposal for temporary employment. There is no doubt that we have drawn the policy to the left through the budgetary agreement. An extension of the school day is part of improving the quality of school. It is an ambitious goal for Norwegian school to be a school for everyone — an inclusive school to facilitate the development of their talents for the benefit of the community, depending on their assumptions. One of the conclusions of the evaluation of L97 is that the school does not have the power to provide adapted training to all. At the same time, the evaluation shows that there are considerable differences between comparable schools and comparable municipalities. We cannot add more tasks to the municipalities without having money. Doing development work at school is a demanding task, where both school and school leaders, teachers and students depend on economics to succeed. The School Leisure Scheme has been put under heavy pressure in the last year because the Government chose to halve State aid in 2003. The result has been a huge increase in prices for many parents. The SFO is an important offer for primary school students, and many families depend on the SFO to get their daily lives together. We are therefore pleased that an extension of the school day will result in less expenditure on the SFO and lower parental pay. This expansion of school day is a start. An extension must also contain physical activity. Research shows that this results in good results. Physical activity contributes to both well-being and concentration. For many students, physical exercise hours at school are their only form of physical activity. The budget agreement gives results that we can be proud of, but we're not satisfied. We still have a government that leads a policy that goes in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1135	I wasn't quite finished in my main post, I have something I want to add. In connection with the oil fund, I proposed to place some of the oil assets in gold at a price of 266 dollars per year. Us. But we're going to have to do something about it. 30 grams. Now the price is soon up to $400 a. Us. If we had done that the time I said it, the oil fund would have increased significantly in value instead of going down, as it has now done. I also received a price from the press department here in Stortinget, and that price was not positive. A greater part of our oil wealth should be used for investment in Norway. We should use the oil wealth to improve the road network and ports. We should expand broadband with opportunities for two-way communication for everyone. We should spend money on repurchasing holdings in key companies sold abroad. This applies in particular to enterprises that manage our natural resources. In this way, we will be able to secure good income even after the oil age is over. There has now been a breach between the State and the Norwegian Fisheries Team on the next year’s fisheries agreement. Part of the money was to be used to support the transport of fish from the fish recipient to the fish processing plant and grants for labour-intensive line-laying. A number of schemes that are given above the tax bill were included in this agreement. Then it is not good that it was broken. Last year's financial figures gave a clear signal to Norway's Bank to keep a high dollar rate and high interest rates. That we have lost jobs because of this is clear, but it is a political choice that this government has made, and that is nothing new. In today's financial debate, a whole day has been spent saying that the exchange rate is weakened and the interest rate is low. They could have enjoyed that. The word that many do not like is the word ‘signorage’. That shouldn't have been said, and I would have preferred not to know. But that means inflation, or price rise. We need a price rise in order to have a good economy and to move forward and up with the Norwegian economy. Then the word ‘signorage’ is said from this pulpit. That's not good. But I mean price rise.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1151	The last year has been marked by great unrest in all parts of the country because people, with good reason, fear that the security that a hospital with emergency facilities and food supplies is about to disappear. We see it in Narvik, in Arendal, on Rjukan, in Odda, in Lærdal, on Gjøvik and many other places. Regional health enterprises and other health enterprises have presented plans that have created uncertainty, insecurity, irritation, yes, even rage. It has led to strong mobilization and involvement in the population and among the employees who rarely experience it. So what do people do in such a situation? Well, they do what people in a modern democracy have to do. They demonstrate, they write reading articles in the newspapers, and they turn to their elected representatives here on the Stortinget and expect us to get involved, that we at Stortinget should sort things out. The frustration and rage are no less when it comes to people saying that these closure proposals are not actually on the Stortinge table, despite the fact that the state owns and is responsible for the operation of Norwegian hospitals. There is simply no understanding out there among the people that the country's top elected assembly has far on the way to steering itself with something as fundamental as the people's security of life and health. This is a serious democratic problem with which the Storting must do something, and we must do it quickly. On various occasions, SV has proposed that the Storting should take power and control over health policy back to this room, including: by adopting overall national health plans. These proposals have so far received little attention here in Stortinget. But I've been happy to record over the last few weeks that the Workers' Party has come up with signals that indicate that this party too now sees the need for us, as elected representatives, to take back the governance of health policy and the hospital structure, which is so fundamental to people's safety and security. Among other things, the party's social political spokesman, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, says that, according to the newspapers of the Nations on 20 November this year, the Workers' Party may: ‘following one of the main demands of hospital activists, namely that the Storting must be allowed to do its job in the event of major structural changes’. SV will again propose that the Storting should have decision-making powers in relation to the hospital structure, during the budgetary procedure of the year. It could therefore be very interesting to hear in this debate as well, which means that the Labour Party can now envisage supporting such a proposal. In that case, it would be very joyful.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1167	When I travel around the country in different communities and talk to local representatives and representatives of the business community, there is one theme that goes back everywhere, and it's culture. Good communication is crucial for people to live and live in the whole country. Good communication is crucial for people to have a service that belongs to a modern society and also to participate in social and cultural provision. Good communication is crucial in order to take care of existing jobs and also to create new ones. One of Norway's advantages is large natural resources. But if we are to be able to use these resources, we need to facilitate the development of nutrition across the country. Many of the export industries are located in the districts, with long distances to the markets. It is natural, therefore, that Norwegian businesses have a culture as one of the most important issues they fight for. If many of the enterprises are to survive, communications must be enhanced, so that transport costs, and hence distance costs, are reduced. I mean, budget-inner. S. The three government parties say that the Government proposes a strong commitment to trade in 2004 and in the debate today the Minister for Transport has stressed what she thinks is the strong commitment to trade. It's hard to take this seriously when you go into the concrete numbers. Quite rightly, there is a strengthening of public transport in large cities, which is absolutely necessary. Also in some other posts there are small additions, but in total this cannot be called a strong wager on commerce. I'm overconfident that in the opposition, the government party, perhaps especially Right, would use strong words to characterize such a budget. Compared to NTP, road investment lags are increasing, with a total of NOK 1.6 billion. The fall in rail investment is almost the same. There's also a lot of follow-up on maintenance on both road and track. This government has little to be proud of in the field of transport, until it is far too long before the Government is in the vicinity of fulfilling the promises made by the government party in connection with the NTP, in the Sem Declaration and in debates in the Stortinge in previous years. The centre party believes that the development of trade is decisive for good development in the whole country, for construction and for business. Good and secure communications are a device for a value-creating business. In addition, there are now, and there have been recent years, available capacity and competence in the construction sector. Increasing the activity of the construction sector will have a good employment effect. The centre party believes that increased efforts are needed in the transport sector, and hence has included in its alternative budget an increase in the proceeds of travel of DKK 1 billion. This will be a good investment for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1186	After the State Council Steensnæs last year sat on TV and sent to the social office all those who had problems with sky-high power bills, we were some who sat down and thought about ourselves. Not even again, we thought. And since the government did not take responsibility for its own promises, we had to chisel out a solution in the opposition. We agreed with the Government to give money to all residents, but the rest we had to fix ourselves. The Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Centre Party and the SV received extra allowances for families with children and for the municipalities, which received increased social expenditure, as a one-time measure. But in addition, we decided to strengthen the economy permanently for 12 000 families with poor advice, and get into the housing support system those who were so far outside, in order to avoid these having to go to the social office the next time the electricity prices increase, and that can happen already this winter. For a family with two adults and two children, this means that the increase in the income limit by NOK 30000 means that they can now make DKK 200,000 instead of just NOK 170 000, yet qualify for housing support. So we're talking about today excluding families with children from housing support with income under the minimum pension. The government has countered this from Day 1. At first they left the message to the House Bank, because they hoped to remove the increase in the revised national budget. But then the opposition stood firm on the decision. And now, along with the Workers' Party, which I am particularly disappointed in in this context, the Government has removed the increase in an extraordinary way, by changing the legislation and withdrawing the money after hopeful families of children have applied for, October 10, this year. I believe this is a matter of course. But at best, it's giving poorer Christmas to families with poor advice, the same families with children that the Christian People's Party claims will create a warmer society. I have no sense of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1195	The Prime Minister spoke earlier today about a bad course — if it was a bad course to destroy the offer at Krokide Vocational School, if it was a bad course to take away the operation of the training councils, which are so important for vocational education. At least we are pleased that the Labour Party has had the same priority as the Advance Party in budgetary terms in these two areas, so that this course deviation is corrected. On the other hand, we are disappointed that the Workers' Party has not had the same priority as the Advance Party in saving the safety training of fishermen, who have now been diverted, with the help of the Workers' Party. Government Education Councils have earlier today boasted of the funding of the Quality Reform. That full funding is based on three pillars. One is the budgets of the institutions, which are reasonably well-managed. The second is the student economy, which is reasonably poorly cared for — in fact, the Government and the Workers' Party are now using the students as a partial balancing of what they call the full funding of the reform. The third foundation, the third pillar, is buildings and maintenance, which is not mentioned, especially the maintenance piece. We know that there are a lot of bad places in colleges and universities, and that's a bad thing to say. So it lacks a part of satisfactory full funding. In the end, I have to return to the loan facility for cleaning up school buildings, which at the end of this year will include loans of NOK 5 billion. There has been a lot of talk in budgetary terms about strengthening the free income of municipalities. Then it is important that the government also does something about the municipal law, so that willing municipalities that borrow money for upgrade and believe that they can wait five years to pay a instalment are actually allowed to do so. And since we have a measuring point and an amount of $5 billion when the year is over, it's easy to figure out that if everyone's borrowed, it's 250 million. kr in effect, if you do not do anything with the municipal law that ensures that municipalities that are not in fact obliged to pay the repayment to their lender should also not dispose of that money in their balance sheet, as required by the municipal law with regard to the provisions on debt management. So this is not a technical adjustment, as the Education Council said earlier in response to a reply from me that it is, but this is a fundamental question to ensure that the municipalities do not bind their free revenues, as they have pointed out in this negotiating document after the KS and the Government negotiated earlier this autumn. I hope this is taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1204	I'll take the word for two reasons. One is that I would like to draw proposal No. 31, which is distributed in the hall. The reason why we're drawing it is that the answer Steensnæs gave to a challenge, in our opinion, is satisfactory. That means that one will come back to this. That's also why we want to support proposals for VII in the printed setting, which is part of the reconciliation between the Workers' Party and the government parties. The reason for this is that we imagine that a pilot plant that will prevent emissions of approx. 1 million CO2 can be built on Snow White. I understood Steensnæs correctly, he believed that Snow White was one of the places in question to build such a facility. The rest of this proposal is in line with the gas agreement that SV had with the Government, so it has been the last part of this proposal that has been problematic for us. We then want to support this. Now that I have the word first, let me just say as a small summary from SV's point of view that we are very uncertain about what the future will bring with this government, which is continuing. This debate has clearly shown that this government does not have a particular firm stance in its policy. We're not sure what this means for the different issues that the Storting is going to deal with over the year. It is very easy to think, when making a comprehensive agreement for a budgetary year, that the budgetary partners are not particularly free, even though this debate has pretended to be free. It will be interesting to see if the Workers' Party will actually use the freedom they claim to have despite the budgetary agreement. This may mean that it will still be possible to make policies in line with what the Workers' Party and the SV have in common, and that we can also occasionally find support from the Progress Party, a policy that led, for example, to: was able to reach a kindergarten agreement, which was a very large and important promise, and which fulfilled election vows from very many parties in this hall. But it remains to be seen. We're basically just recording that the government is doing a double communication, which they'd like to do for us. But it's going to be interesting to see what the Workers' Party is actually doing in the future. Otherwise, this was to be seen as an explanation of vote from SV, so I will not take the word for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1213	In the evening post for today, we can see the Minister of Finance applauding the possibility of a record Christmas deal: ‘We’re going to have the Christmas trade of the times.’And further: ‘I’m not reading that as increased materialism, but as employment. These are jobs," says Per-Kristian Foss with a wide smile." In the last year, industry has been through a very difficult time, with job losses, flagging out and rising unemployment rates. Significant parts of the industry are still struggling, in particular this fishing industry, and partly the farming industry. The government’s contribution to helping these two industries is a halving of the fisheries agreement, which will make it very difficult to operate fisheries for the next year within the framework set by the Stortinge and to announce 50 new farming concessions in a situation where the industry is in the process of getting the situation under control. The workshop industry still has a very slump and partly empty order books. So in this situation, the Minister of Finance is cheering for an increase in Christmas trade. There are two sides to this statement from the Minister of Finance that I think is worth doing a little visit, first of all the morally reprehensible in urging to put a record in Christmas trade in a country that is not characterized by the fact that most of us suffer from a lack of material wealth. The second is the long-term effects of channelling an increasingly large proportion of the labour force into the commercial industry and into import-based consumption. This is not good news for the export industry. Nor can the Minister of Finance’s opinion be interpreted in any other way than that there is actually room in the Norwegian economy to spend more money now. That is what the Minister of Finance calls for. This possibility should have been used by the Minister of Finance and the Government to focus on strengthening the competitiveness of Norwegian industry, for example. by facilitating the financing of investments through strengthening the financial instruments of the SND, improving infrastructure, strengthening research, enabling more development contracts, both public and private, i.e. not encouraging increased consumption, whether in the public or private sectors, but targeting future jobs. But instead of such a determined commitment and such a determined industrial policy, we feel that the Minister of Finance is developing his broadest smile in the prospect of record Christmas trading. The long-term consequences of this will be greater oil dependence, more centralisation and less export-oriented business. That's not good news for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1231	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1-3, which means that the financial debate of the year can be closed. There will be a call to voting. [[See page 663]]
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1238	There's one thing left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1245	I'm sorry. It was the president who wanted to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1258	The President may have his wish fulfilled if not so long, I won't do this so far. But there are some things that should be said. The Committee has examined Document No. 8:3 and explained the matter both through consultation and correspondence with the Minister of Finance. The setting that we're presenting is divided. A majority of the governmental parties and the Workers' Party have initially decided to reject the document without making any own proposal. I have today received signals from the Workers' Party that they can imagine supporting the SV's proposal. These are different minority proposals. The centre party promotes the proposal contained in the document, the Progress Party has its own minority proposal, and SV has one. I would like to spend a little time explaining the SV's proposal. We want an investigation into the living conditions of single and single dependants because we believe the issues raised in the document are important. There are a number of points in the document that relate to the life situation of single residents in relation to increased expenditure due to housing. SIFO has conducted a survey of the Societal Union, which concludes that the single residents have DKK 4000 per month in extra costs compared to two-person households. We know that, of course, it's harder to get into the housing market for lonely people, and that especially in Oslo, where homes are the most expensive in the country, there are a lot of people living alone. And we know that the single residents under the age of 45 are overrepresented in the group of persistently low incomes. On the SV side, however, we see that tax policy changes are not the answer to these challenges, because we believe a tax deduction will be inconclusive. There's a heterogeneous group we're talking about, and it's not necessarily as appropriate to distribute tax credits for single residents with millions. kr in income, e.g. We think that a tax deduction will be small compared to those who need it the most, and also little compared to the challenges and issues we're talking about. For example, a tax deduction of a moderate size would: contribute little to facilitating the entry of single residents into the housing market. We also believe that a tax deduction is wrong in relation to those in this group who need it the most, as we know that many of them simply do not have income. In addition, the proposal would, if so for example: would have been carried out as a general deduction, very costly. It is estimated that a general deduction of NOK 3000 will cost NOK 2.2 billion. We think it's going to be expensive symbol politics. However, we think it is important and appropriate to clarify the issues. There has been a debate on this in the election campaign, among other things, both the Women's Movement of the Labour Party and the Left have been high on the ground in relation to questions about the single population. From the point of view of the SV, we have always been clear that we cannot expect to be in favour of measures that involve fiscal intervention in relation to this. We have also considered that social indicators other than housing are the most important in understanding and combating differences in Norway. Nevertheless, we believe that we can have a neat, good and useful debate if we get a closer investigation and clarification of the special economic conditions that apply to single residents, and also to single-parents, which we could imagine looking at in this context. As this debate has been so extensive and up so many times in Norway, we believe it would be natural to get some kind of further work around it. And I have to say that we're probably a little surprised that what it looks like to date at least, should not be possible to get a majority for such a cautious proposal as that SV, along with the Coastal Party, has presented in the vote. I would like to include SV and the Coastal Party's proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1286	The representative Audun Bjørlo Lighthouse has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1289	I shall be quite brief, because I think the rapporteur presented in an excellent manner the reasons for what Mr SV has proposed and to which the Labour Party will now give its support. When I say that the case rapporteur has given a good reason for the vote and the background to the SV's proposal, the tax aspects that the case-rapporteur presented are the ones that the case-rapporteur explained. I would also like to add that we are faced with a larger tax return, which the Government has announced to us in the spring of 2004, and it would be right to take this case up for tax purposes in relation to the big case that is then coming. This with an investigation of the living conditions of this group of people is a completely different matter from a tax case, and it may be necessary to bring it to light. That is why the Workers' Party will support proposal No. 1, made by SV and the Coastal Party. As far as the tax side is concerned, I have said that we will come back to that, but the proposal for an investigation we will join now as it is promoted here.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1298	The rapporteur has made clear the background to the proposal and why there is a relatively broad consensus in the Committee that the different problems of introducing tax deductions cannot be met by residents alone, so I am not going to go into it in any detail. Of course, the right is pleased to see that belief in tax relief as a solution to social problems is also great in the Centre Party, but we want greater certainty and more faith in tax relief in the context of the development of business and jobs. Some of the problems for single residents described in this case are problems related to having a job or not. Workplaces are created through predictable business framework conditions, and the availability of labour is related to the level of taxation of ordinary employee income. It's enough here to make sure that the government, despite the modest tax reliefs in this budget, has been able to continue to adjust the peak rate after we have adjusted it significantly in the past. 90,000 more would receive top taxes with the Senter Party's arrangements, probably of which also many single residents. The problem for most people with financial difficulties is lack of work and lack of adequate income as a basis for life. Tax is usually at very low levels, and extra tax deductions have little effect on the life situation. The Tax Committee, which has investigated the basis for a new tax reform, has been quite clear that tax deductions are a small appropriate instrument in situations where the objective is to support activities that will satisfy only one set of criteria, as in the present proposal. If individual groups are to be more targeted, the tax and tax systems are not well-suited to direct support from the annual budgets. This is in fact one of the guiding principles of the Tax Committee's position and is described in relation to many groups of taxpayers. When it is then known that the Storting will not be invited for too long to take a decision on the very principles of a new tax reform through a large-scale notification, it would be strange if we could reach it through a Document No. 8-proposals provide guidance on the presentation of this Communication. I am therefore pleased that a broad majority of the Committee is gathering that there will be no specific signals at this stage as to what this Communication will contain in relation to special tax deductions for special groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1309	The progress party agrees with the proposers that the tax pressure in Norway is too high for all-rounders. On the other hand, we are of the opinion that the tax burden is also too high in general, and that both direct and indirect taxes must therefore be reduced for all groups. It is also worth noting that a reduction, especially in fees, will often be the most beneficial for all alone. In addition to a lower tax level, the Progress Party is aware that the tax system must be simple and transparent. In this context, we refer to letters from the Minister of Finance dated 29 October of this year, where he points out that a special tax deduction on all entities will result in difficult constraints and may require large resources to be administered by the equality authorities. The progress party agrees with this assessment and is therefore initially skeptical of such a tax deduction. Nevertheless, we have no problem going in so that such a special tax deduction is discussed in connection with the message to be submitted as a follow-up to the Skauge selection. On this basis, I would like to refer to the proposal of the Progress Party. I accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1318	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1321	Several parties in the electoral campaign could indicate a better climate for a debate on what measures are needed to give the many self-contained greater justice. Karita Bekkemellem Orheim, on behalf of the Workers' Party, called on his women to pay tax deductions. Step Skei Grande was out in the VG and proclaimed that the Left was the only party that had a single policy. The left would have multiple one-room living quarters. In fact, the center part is under one room at a time. We were still happy for both of these recordings. This could mean that we, together with local populace, would be given greater justice during 2004. The background to our proposal to ask the Government to disburse and propose a tax deduction for self-construction as part of an action plan to improve purchasing power and living conditions for this group is dry figures. The SSB reports that the group of singles under the age of 45 has had a negative income trend compared to other groups. Figures from 2001 show that they have had the lowest income after tax in the last 15 years. Everyone else has a growth of approx. 30 pst. In addition, single people have the most debts and the greatest payment problems in terms of income. At the same time, we know that rent, electricity, municipal taxes, telephone and newspapers cost as much for one who is on his own as for couples with two incomes. Rent builders pay as much tax as anyone else, but receive no compensation for high living costs. In several respects, the centre party has the right to a tax deduction for the individual. Now the Storting can get this distributed closer because the Government will follow up the Skauge selection. We find it strange that this theme should be rejected by the fact that single people are an inseparable group. Such a distribution could go further into different criteria, e.g.: a predetermined income limit in order to be included in such a deduction. Nor do we think it is any argument that the main reason why a large part of this group has a poor economy is bad or no connection to the labour market or that even a small tax deduction will cost a lot and therefore have consequences for other parts of the government budget. All these objections can also be used in relation to other types of households that have been increased by either changing taxes or increasing cash transfers. For example, there can be no doubt that there are many families with children who could willingly live well without cash support. I now register that something good has come out of this proposal. I regret that we in the Centre Party do not receive support for our proposal, but SV suggests that the Government take the initiative to outsource their livelihoods and to discuss any policy measures aimed at the economic situation of these groups. This proposal has now been supported by the Labour Party. The centre party, as we have warned in the vote, will substantially support both the SV's and the Progress Party's proposals. Bjørg Tørresdal from the Christian People's Party said in political quarters this day that the Christian People's Party would see different measures in a context. Based on the announcement that has come, I hope that both the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party will now be able to contribute to the proposal that SV has made on behalf of the many self-constructing people who are really tired. It is not all, but it is important to take action in relation to those in this group who have a difficult economy. It would really be an important step in the right direction to get such an expression. So this whole thing can be bribed tonight if it wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1334	Would the representative take up the proposal of the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1337	Thank you for the reminder! I take this up with me the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1342	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has taken up the suggestion she herself made.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1346	There's a lot of good intentions behind the proposal of the Center Party, but for us single, it may not be the greatest dream to be controlled by the tax system if you're sleeping with someone or if you're not sleeping with someone. Single might have other dreams than just that. I think there's a lot of other steps that need to be taken than using tax models like that. We also have a lot of research and knowledge about our group. We make up a very large part, among other things. half of the city we're in now. What I want to challenge the centre party on, and which they really ought to take inwards, is that it is possible to do for single for a rapporteur party like the centre party. It's mostly at local political level. This applies, for example: charging policy, linking charges to consumption instead of linking them to fixed prices, running a housing policy that allows single young people to enter the housing market, running a consumer policy that prevents us from throwing as much food as we do, for example. do. Important steps should be taken. There is a lot of talk about local politics and a lot of talk about active rapporteurs who want to make living easier for everyone, no matter how you plan to live your life. All of this is possible in local policy, and it has great opportunities for the Central Party to act as a rapporteur party. The Ensliga National Association's investigation says a lot about that. Then we'll stop dreaming of tax models, which will only lead to an exciting bureaucracy that controls how we're going to live our lives and how we live our lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1355	There is no doubt that more measures can be discussed. That's why the Center Party has actually pointed to an action plan. We do not find any reason to overdo the organisation that has been engaged for years, especially for those who live alone, namely the League of Lone States. I'm recording that Trine Skei Grande is talking on behalf of something she calls 'us single' and not on behalf of that organisation. They've actually asked for a tax deduction. When it comes to municipal taxes after consumption, it is a measure in which the Centre Party is in complete agreement, to which we have advanced before in the Stortinget and have been downgraded in relation to the Ministry of Local Affairs, but to which we are going to resume, and to which many of our spokespersons locally have already taken the initiative. Finally, I just want to remind you that soon we will have a new round of housing policy in another area. Then we hope in the Center Party that the Left will take a little longer than focusing on one-room apartments. An important issue for those who have problems covering the building costs is actually to make sure that the one-person household comes under the bushel. So far it has also been impossible to get this government on.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1364	The President will assume that no one speaking from the pulpit of the Storting will speak on behalf of an organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1367	I would like to refer to the very first article from the case-rapporteur who presented in a very good manner the views of the SV and also the views of the government parties on this matter. All that has to do with general measures and taxes, we will look at when the shadow committee's suspension is available and the tax cancellation message comes to the Stortinget. I am pleased that the representative Meltveit Kleppa will follow closely when someone speaks on the radio. It's positive. What I hope and believe both Meltveit Kleppa and others heard was that my post was a yes to targeting measures. It's about action for those who need it the most. In summary, that was my message in that post. It's not exactly going to be a no to general action, but it's a critical view of the general welfare measures we have in society. We need to modernise our actions, and we need to look at all welfare schemes, including those relating to taxes. But in summary, we'll get the Skauge Committee's attitude, and we'll have a tax debate in Stortinget later.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1374	I understand that it amazes the representative Meltveit Kleppa that I am speaking on behalf of the Left, but I do so mostly from this pulpit. I want to point two things out. We've said that you have to open up to one-room apartments in cities. This means that you have to be able to enter a housing market. The old idea of getting a house that you're going to have kids in, and dying in, may not be quite right in this context. Most of us change apartments quite often. At all, being able to enter the housing market is quite important. Had it not been for one-room apartments, I would never have entered the housing market in Oslo as single. Secondly, how has the Central Party intended to control whether you live alone? Is there any kind of sensor you're going to enter the bed, or is there going to be someone sitting in the hall counting how many times you're going to be visited? This will be a completely impossible way of implementing a tax system where you have to calculate whether you live alone or if you live with someone. It will provide creative opportunities for the control of people who may not support the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1383	The President will not fail to note that it could also contribute to increasing employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1386	If I had been single, I would have been very little impressed by Trine Skei Grande's efforts in this debate. When the politician who may have gone top of the track as a front-person for the singles can get out of this case without having promoted a single proposal, and without being able to support SV's relatively limited proposal to get a proper screening and a set of proper political debate on this, it shows itself with respect to reporting relatively strangely. I could imagine asking Trine Skei Grande to explain why she cannot support SV's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1393	There is a reason why the single residents have been left hanging for economical reasons. Now there has been reform after reform, and we have spent billions on raising those we think we need the most, and that is because there is no willingness to take exactly that group into account. Now the Centre Party has made proposals on the basis of requests from the single residents, where this is one of their wishes. However, it is clear that many other measures need to be taken in addition. But in order for the Skauge Committee to come to our table now, we have asked that there be something in that investigation about the situation of the single occupants. Bjørg Tørresdal says that we will handle this when the message arrives. But what in the world does it help when there is not going to be one word about the situation of the single-residents in that message, because it has been said by the Minister of Finance? So to the left, who's wondering how we can control this all over the world. We believe in people when they sign that it is, then we do it in all other situations, so why in the world should we not believe in those who live alone, who say they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1404	Step Skei Grande has had the word twice in this matter, and is given the occasion for a brief comment limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1407	The left has promoted a number of proposals in this area. It's just going into my own internet page and looking at the suggestions we've made. Most of them are related to local decisions that I'm going to follow further in relation to our local politicians. And when it comes to investigations, there's a lot of knowledge about this group, a lot of knowledge about how living conditions are. The League of Uniforms has made sure that we have, so it's just following it up further.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1414	I think this debate may be primarily a demonstration that when the Left engages, there is more on behalf of a single-person household who has over 500,000 kroner in income than on behalf of those who struggle in their everyday lives to get things around. If the Left wants to do something concrete in this matter in order to move forward, they don't have to chatter about the proposals that are being made, but actually help to determine how life is, but do not stop there, because the proposals from the SV do not stop there. They address the need for policy action. And if there's anything this debate has shown, then there's a need here for a discussion of what policy measures are going to be put in place to lift those of the one-person households who are struggling with their economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1422	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The President notes that the regulatory time for the evening meeting is running out, but assumes that the Stortinget – as the end of today’s meeting – is prepared to vote. [[See page 701]] It will therefore be called to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1432	The store is ready to vote in the cases on today's meeting map.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1439	The President proposes that the Minister of Finance’s statement on the 2004 State and National Budget be annexed to the minutes of the Stockholm meeting on 8 October 2003. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1448	Case No. 2 applies to the budget-inside. S. I. For this matter, a total of 31 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 2, by Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 3, by Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposals No. 4 and 5, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 6 and 7, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party The President noted that proposal No. 7 is not complete as set out in the summary of minority proposals, and refers to page 64, first column of the vote, where the proposal is included in its full form. In addition, the following proposals are put forward: the proposals No 8-13, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 14-20 and 31, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President noted that Mr Djupedal had drawn up a motion for a resolution during the debate. 31. Further: the proposals No 21 and 22, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, proposals No. 23-26, by Mr Lund, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals Nos. 27 and 28, by Steinar Bastesen on behalf of the Coastal Party, proposals No. 29 and 30, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left In the vote that follows, the President will start with the proposals from the smallest fraction and move forward after increasing size. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 27 and 28, from the Coastal Party. Proposal No. 27 sounds: "Catch decisions For the treatment of the State budget by the Grand Duchy, including the public interest for 2004, the following framework for the allocation is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 16 October 2003 and supplemented on 4 and 11 November 2003: No.NameCroner1State administration 9 986 176 0002Family and consumer 40 367 799 0003Cultural 3 255 703 0004Foreign affairs 17 684 552 0005Justice 11 352 816 0006Inmigration, regional development, housing and labour 17 165 851 0007Day money, etc. 20 184 000 0008Defence 29 097 579 0009Entrepreneurship 2 855 750 00010Fishing 521 913 00011Agriculture 13 119 547 00012Oil and energy -52 677 931 00013Environment 2 588 942 00014Size etc. 1 291 019 00015Social 179 857 500 00016Health 86 844 743 00017Church, education and research 35 286 492 00018Communication 20 971 405 00019Room grants etc. to the local government sector 55 702 946 00020Simultaneous expenditure and revenue 7 014 464 00021Export guarantees etc. -416 000 00022Financial administration, etc. 21 823 168 00023Taxes and charges -566 407 531 00024Distributions etc. -13 124 852 000Total before loan transactions and transfers to/from the State Petroleum Fund -55 653 949 000» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for an investment tax on new office buildings in Oslo to mitigate the centralising overinvestment in such buildings in the capital of the country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1713	Proposals Nos. 23–26, from the Centre Party, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 23 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1945	Proposals Nos. 21 and 22, from the Centre Party and the Coastal Party, are admitted to voting. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to negotiate an agreement on the participation of the authorities in the modernisation of the melting plants in Høyanger and Årdal.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government asked the Government to submit a plan for the relocation of 5000 annual works over a 5-year period from the Oslo region.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e1965	Proposals Nos. 14-19, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 14 sounds: "The Framework Decision for the treatment of the State budget by the Grand Duchy, including the 2004 public budget, establishes the following framework for the allocation in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 16 October 2003 and supplemented on 4 and 11 November 2003: No.NameCroner1State administration 10 131 471 0002Family and consumer 37 902 556 0003Cultural 3 437 378 0004Foreign affairs 18 154 552 0005Justice 11 446 816 0006Inmigration, regional development, housing and labour 18 064 351 0007Day money, etc. 20 454 000 0008Defence 24 697 579 0009Entrepreneurship 2 324 750 00010Fishing 520 913 00011Agriculture 12 917 547 00012Oil and energy -54 039 431 00013Environment 2 815 442 00014Size etc. 1 289 019 00015Social 179 857 500 00016Health 86 586 082 00017Church, education and research 36 333 892 00018Communication 20 812 805 00019Room grants etc. to the local government sector 48 147 946 00020Simultaneous expenditure and revenue 6 755 464 00021Export guarantees etc. -416 000 00022Financial administration, etc. 29 393 168 00023Taxes and levies -578 336 256 00024 Dividends etc. -12 924 852 000Total before loan transactions and transfers to/from the State Petroleum Fund -73 673 308 000» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The budget asks the Government to ensure that National Agenda 21 is included as a permanent part of the national budget.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The mandate and the resource situation of the Court of Auditors need to be strengthened in order to follow up National Agenda 21.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a national 10-year sustainable production and consumption plan, in line with the decision of the World Summit in Johannesburg.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a follow-up and evaluation of the ‘Green Tax Commission’ with a view to making Norway the world leader in green tax distortion.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce a zero VAT rate for public transport from 2005 onwards.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e2201	I voted incorrectly, I should have voted in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e2208	So then the 95 votes against the proposals and 14 against, and so the proposals are not accepted. Proposal No. 20, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to initiate discussions with the municipalities on a plan for the creation of the financial imbalances in the local government sector. The framework and the economic impact of such a plan are presented to the Stortinget in 2005 as a framework for the local economy.’.» The central party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e2227	Proposals Nos. 8-13, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 8 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e2600	Proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party, are taken up for voting. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the development of the Long-term Programme in accordance with the principles of sustainable development.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the Action Plan against Global Poverty in the light of the results of the UN Conference in Johannesburg.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e2622	Proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from the Progress Party and the Centre Party, to voting. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch a research project on macro-conometric models. Researchers/macroeconomists from different professional environments are invited to participate.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the health business balance requirement is shifted from 2004 to 2006.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e2644	Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Coastal Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The cancellation asks the Government to ensure that the tax lists for personal taxpayers do not include a imputed tax on dividends in excess of what is charged to the individual.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e2659	Proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: "The Framework Decision for the treatment of the State budget by the Grand Duchy, including the 2004 public budget, establishes the following framework for the allocation in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 16 October 2003 and supplemented on 4 and 11 November 2003: No.NameCroner1State administration 9 971 576 0002Family and consumer 37 877 099 0003Culture 3 122 128 0004Foreign affairs 17 669 052 0005Justice 11 331 816 0006Inmigration, regional development, housing and employment 18 111 951 0007Day money, etc. 21 215 200 0008Defence 29 097 579 0009Industry 2 488 750 00010Fishing 461 613 00011Agriculture 12 967 547 00012Oil and energy -52 576 931 00013Environment 2 389 942 00014Size etc. 1 288 429 00015Social 179 367 700 00016Health 86 167 582 00017Church, education and research 33 984 892 00018Communication 20 861 405 00019Room grants etc. to the local government sector 52 700 846 00020Simultaneous expenditure and revenue 6 985 664 00021Export guarantees etc. -416 000 00022Financial administration, etc. 21 764 868 00023Taxes and charges -579 416 256 00024Distributions etc. -13 137 452 000Sum before loan transactions and transfers to/from the State Petroleum Fund -75 721 000 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e2868	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider establishing a national investment programme for local Agenda 21 work.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e2883	Proposals Nos. 29 and 30, from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, are taken up to vote. Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The size agrees that the broadcasting fee for television receivers for 2004 shall be SEK 1 802 excl. VAT. The additional charge in the case of late payment of the broadcasting charge and where notification is not made in accordance with the law of 4 December 1992 No. 127 on broadcasting § 8-1 second paragraph, shall be 15 pst. of the broadcasting fee.»Proposal No. 30 reads:‘The Swedish Government agrees that the Ministry of the Environment will be able to order materials and other materials in 2004. in addition to the allocation given over the cap. 1441 State pollution control, item 39 Clean-up measures, but so that the overall framework for new orders and old responsibilities does not exceed 25 million. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party have announced that they support the proposals, while the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against them.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e2906	I could not vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e2913	Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen should have voted in favour of the proposals. So the number of votes 93 for the proposals and 17 against, and so the proposals have been adopted. The proposal for a decision shall then be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e3127	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e3134	So did I.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e3141	So then the votes will be 72 for the vote and 37 against, and so the committee's position has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e3202	Case No. 3 applies to budget revenue. S. No 1st@item: inlistbox A total of 29 proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's the proposals No 1, 6, 11 and 16, by Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 2, 7, 12, 17 and 25-28, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 3, 8, 13 and 18, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 4, 9, 14 and 19, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Centre Party, proposals No. 5, 10, 15 and 20, by Steinar Bastesen on behalf of the Coastal Party, proposal No. 21, from Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Coastal Party, proposals No. 22 and 23, by Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Progress Party, proposal No. 24, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 29, from Morten Lund on behalf of the Center Party and the Coastal Party. In the case of further voting, the President will refer to Section 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. It appears that once decisions have been taken on the financial envelope for the 24 framework areas into which the budget is divided, the amounts adopted may not be waived in the further examination of the framework areas. Such a decision was taken in the previous case, and as a result, some of the proposed minority proposals that are now available will not be put to the vote and will therefore lapse, because they are based on amounts other than those adopted. It concerns the proposals Nos. 1 to 20 in the position to be voted on and relating to the Framework Areas 19, 20, 23 and 24. Proposals Nos. 21-29 are independent of the framework, so these will be over. And there will be a vote on these framework-independent minority proposals first. Proposal No. 29, from the Center Party and the Coastal Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a separate case concerning the introduction of a general VAT compensation scheme for municipalities, where administrative costs and distribution effects are specifically addressed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e3253	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 25-28, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring forward a case for the Storting on changes to the rules on taxes on electricity which allow for an increase in the limit for small power stations of 10 MW without at the same time distorting tax revenues from municipalities to countries. ‘... Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to file a case for the Storting in which benefits and disadvantages are highlighted by allowing real electricity prices to be taken into account for the calculation of the basic interest income.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘In the context of the Revised National Budget 2004, the Government asks for direct expenditure on upgrading and extension projects in existing hydropower plants.’ [[O/P]] Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit a plan for the closure of the basic charge for drinking packaging as soon as possible and at the latest in the Revised National Budget for 2004. The plan shall also include an impact assessment.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e3285	There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess measures, including fiscal incentives, to ensure the fastest possible transition to low-sulphur and sulphur-free fuels and to propose them in the State budget for 2005.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e3302	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22 and 23, from the Labour Party and the Advance Party. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to return to Stortinget with a proposal for a charging model for energy installations that meet EU emission requirements and with a single fee that is escalated as the energy recovery rate reaches a level of 100 pst. energy consumption corresponding to the fossil share of the waste.’;» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to evaluate the impact and impact of the HFC levy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e3324	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Coastal Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to amend Regulation 90 so that the VAT is assessed when the difference between the input and the output VAT per. car is zero.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e3339	The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution and we will begin with the framework section 19. In this area there are minority proposals from the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party – these are the proposals No. One, two, three, four, five. As the President has explained, these proposals lapse in line with the provisions of section 19 of the Storting Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e3605	For Framework Area 20 there are proposals from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. That is the proposal No. 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, which are now going to cancel out.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e3742	We have now reached Framework Area 23, and it is under this area that the Stortinget will adopt the tax and tax rules and their revenue for next year. Frame area 23 is extensive and extends from page 142 to page 170 of the setting, so it's going to add up to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e9224	The President here would like to recall a correction presented by the Chair of the Finance Committee in his statement this morning, referring to Section III and Section 1 of the Employers’ Fee. Under item (j) an error has occurred during the last grouping and it applies to 63.12 at the bottom of the page. The following part of the sentence under 63.12: ‘where the activity is limited to products not covered by the EEA Agreement, see: Article 8 of the Agreement.’;» shall apply to all listed classes of activity under item (j) and not only to items 63.12. For Framework Area 23, there are proposals from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party. That is the proposal No. 11, 12, 13, 14, and 15. These proposals are also obsolete.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e9244	Then there is still to be a vote over the frame area 24. There are also minority proposals that are now falling away. That is the proposal No. 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20, from the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Coastal Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e9628	Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e9644	Three proposals were put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party, proposal No. 2 by Mr Gærmund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 3, from Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Center Party The vote will be taken at the beginning of the vote, as an alternative, between the vote and the proposal of the Central Party. The proposal from the Centre Party reads as follows: ‘The government, as part of the tax reform, asks the government to investigate and propose a tax deduction for single residents in order to contribute to a better development of purchasing power and living conditions for one-person households.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e9678	Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government, as part of the tax reform, to discuss the importance of a reduction in the tax level, especially for the purchasing power and living conditions of a household.’
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e9695	Proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party and the Coastal Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative in an investigation into the living conditions of single residents and single dependants. Such an investigation should also address the need for policy action aimed at remedying the economic situation of these groups.» The Workers' Party and the Senter Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2003-11-26-2.ana.ud2681e9719	There is no record.
