ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the first working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U2	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of handing over the draft law amending the Citizenship Act on behalf of the Centre Party Group. We are doing this today for two reasons. First of all, the Chancellor of Justice is coming to this hall today. He is talking about how to protect children of non-citizens whose parents have for some reason failed to apply for citizenship within 15 years. Secondly, we discussed this issue during the last session during the debate on citizenship policy. This draft law concerns, in particular, the possibility of applying for citizenship under a simplified procedure, i.e. naturalisation, also for children whose parent is a non-citizen, the owner of a "grey passport', and the other parent a citizen of another country. As I said last time in the debate on the same issue, the country of Estonia gives 350 babies in the middle of the Russian Federation, for example. Why we're doing this is incomprehensible. The principle of equal treatment dictates to us that if we give two non-citizen parents the opportunity to obtain a simplified citizenship for their children, the same right could be granted to a child whose parent has a grey passport, which means that this parent has not made a choice in favour of the citizenship of another country and would probably want his child to be an Estonian citizen in the future. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U3	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you two questions. One of them is to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications about reducing home costs. Yesterday I withdrew this inquiry because I did not want to discuss it in an empty hall in the middle of the night. Here too are such nice pictures that you have to discuss it with your sober head and in good time for pleasure. The second question is for Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher. This is about stopping the reconstruction of the Narva border crossing. I would remind you that every year at least twice it is said how many Russian tourists come to Estonia, which is very and very useful for the Estonian economy. But if it is a really necessary thing, such as reconstruction of the border crossing point, for which European money can also be obtained, then it will almost be sabotaged. In a situation where there are two full years to complete the project, it is refused, explaining that nothing can be done. On this basis, I will put four questions to the Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft law. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I have also accepted two inquiries on behalf of the Riigikogu's management board. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressees without delay. Now the messages. Wednesday, s. On 16 January, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now making a presence check. 84 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present; no 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U6	Now let's get to today's agenda. The first item is Opinion No 21 of the Chancellor of Justice, entitled 'Application of the conditions for applying for citizenship to a person whose legal status was not defined at the age of 15'. I will present the progress of the debate on this item. First of all, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder's presentation, which lasts up to 20 minutes, is a presentation by Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which also lasts up to 20 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask both rapporteurs an oral question. Then there will be negotiations and there will be a final vote after the negotiations. I'm asking for a report from Chancellor of Justice of the Chair, Indrek Teder!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members! I am not going to rephrase my report, I am only stressing a few aspects. According to the Citizenship Act, a person must have resided in Estonia on the basis of a residence permit for at least eight years before submitting an application for Estonian citizenship. In addition, it is necessary to have a long-term resident's residence permit or permanent right of residence. However, these requirements cannot be met by a person who did not have a residence permit before the age of 15 or who had not been extended in due time as a result of the inactivity of his legal representative, even though he has in fact resided in Estonia on a permanent basis. This proposal is made because I have been approached by a young person who has not applied for a residence permit. His mother obtained Estonian citizenship in the early 1990s and probably assumed that the child acquired Estonian citizenship with him. When the child went to apply for an Estonian citizen's passport at the age of 16, it turned out that his or her citizenship had not been defined. The then Citizenship and Migration Board informed the parent that according to the law the child had lived in Estonia without a legal basis and this time cannot be taken into account when applying for citizenship. I am of the opinion that, in the light of the circumstances described, the Citizenship Act is contrary to the fundamental right of equality resulting from § 12 (1) of the Constitution. It provides that persons in a similar situation must be treated in the same way. A breach of the fundamental right to equality may also be the case where substantial differences are not taken into account in the design of the legal regulation and situations which are factually different are regulated in a uniform manner. In this case, persons who have lived in Estonia since they were 15 years of age will be treated differently when applying for citizenship, depending on whether or not the legal representative of the child applied for a residence permit for a child under 15 years of age. It should be borne in mind that, as a general rule, it is not possible for a child to be affected by his or her behaviour or will by the fact that his or her legal representative requests and extends his or her residence permit in due time. The child therefore depends entirely on whether his or her legal representative is aware of the corresponding obligations and takes steps to apply for and extend the residence permit. As a consequence, I consider that the application of the conditions set out in subsections 2, 21 and 22 of the Citizenship Act is contrary to the fundamental right of equality arising from § 12 (1) of the Constitution, if the person has resided in Estonia on a factually permanent basis during the period provided for in the Act, but he or she has not applied for a residence permit at the age of 15 or has not been granted a residence permit at the right time due to the inactivity of a legal representative and has not moved permanently to another country at a later date. Since the persons affected by this regulation may have reached their full age by now, it is also necessary to provide for transitional regulation in relation to these applicants when bringing the law into line with the Constitution. Honourable Riigikogu, please bring this provision into line with the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U8	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In my opinion, this is not the first time in the last year that you come here with a proposal to bring the Citizenship Act into line with the Constitution. Is it a deliberate strategy to start changing this law by parts, or are there really so many cases? Perhaps it is time to adopt the Citizenship Act, to clarify whether it is in line with today's circumstances, and to critically review whether it is compatible with the Constitution or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U10	Thank you for your question. I'll start a little further. There is, of course, no such fundamental right as naturalisation. However, when granting citizenship, the state must respect other fundamental rights, such as the fundamental right to equality, which I have now pointed out. It is precisely for this first reason that I cannot come to this remote control and say that the Citizenship Act does not comply with the Constitution. I don't have that authority. But I do think we should look at it a little bit more widely. If we go back in time, in 2009 there were approximately 2000 stateless children in Estonia. I proposed to the Riigikogu, of a fundamental nature, that the state offer them certain,'simplified' citizenship. As of 2012, there were 1520 children under the age of 15 in Estonia whose citizenship had not been defined. I think it is really possible to address this problem more widely and make certain changes here. However, my authority does give me the right to come here only on a very clear legal basis. That is why I am dealing with the Citizenship Act through concrete proposals of this kind.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U11	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U12	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I remember you were the initiator of this subject a few years ago. The subject was not very long, but a useful discussion in newspapers and in the media at all. Now you came up with a concrete proposal. But here's my question. Is the situation that currently exists in Estonia in this area local, Estonian or is it possible to give examples of this kind from other countries and perhaps to talk about how they have solved these issues? I'm not talking about Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U13	Thank you! As I said before in reply to the previous question, it is the decision of the state how it shapes its own citizenship regulations. In principle, the Court of Human Rights has also indicated that the country has a wide margin of discretion here. But, as I said, this discretion must not go against other fundamental rights. That is why I am doing this work on the basis of a specific case. Of course, however, the Riigikogu has the right to consider more widely than the Chancellor of Justice did. Your choice!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U14	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U15	Thank you, Madam President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I realized that you had one such appeal, but in fact I am absolutely certain that these cases have, of course, been more than one and also more than ten or twenty. I understand that no law has retroactive effect. But what happens if we support this proposal and it becomes a law? What about these kids? Will they have the right to request, afterwards, how to say, to compensate for this injustice, or how you have thought it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U16	I think that, if the honourable Parliament supports my proposal, certain transitional provisions could be provided for. According to the Ministry of the Interior, this problem concerns about 500 people. Some of them have already reached the age of age, so such transitional provisions would be reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U17	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U18	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, Chancellor! Listening to your report, I realized that this problem is due to the fact that the legal representative of the child has been inactive, for some reason he has not taken any legitimate steps. Can you explain the possible reasons why such a legitimate and relatively simple step has not been taken? The second part of the question is as follows. If you change the rules in such a way that the legal status of a person does not deteriorate from the fact that some legitimate act has not been carried out, can you, in theory, in the future, say by analogy that some kind of action is not important, because the legal status of a person who has failed to do something is still as good as the one who has done it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U19	Thank you! First of all, I have to say it's hard to guess why this happened. But I think the legal representative of the child simply assumed that if he received naturalisation, then the child would also have it. That was a predicament, because that is not really the case. Secondly, the issue now is that we must treat children equally. There are two groups: children whose legal representative did not apply for a residence permit in due time and children whose legal representative did so. It is in the interests of the child that they cannot be put in an unequal position, as this would be contrary to § 12 of the Constitution. As a remark, in fact, the government has recognised this problem. It is human that it has been tried to overcome the matter by interpreting that this particular person has acquired citizenship. But you can still interpret a valid norm. If the norm does not allow it, then the norm must therefore be changed so that it is such that there is no such questioning.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U20	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Chancellor Indrek Teder! I would like a presentation by Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U21	Your Honor, Chancellor! Good President! Colleagues! As the Chancellor of Justice's report was very thorough and the answers to the questions were thorough, I will limit myself to conveying what we had in the Commission. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 21 at two sittings: on 3 and 6 December last year. The first session was attended by the Chancellor of Justice, and at the second session we asked for comments from the Police and Border Guard Board, represented by Ruth Annus and Koidu Bee. In his proposal, the Chancellor of Justice drew attention to the fact that the children of persons who received Estonian citizenship under naturalisation do not automatically receive Estonian citizenship. If the parents of the child do not apply for a residence permit for him or her, there will be a situation where the legal status of the child is not defined when he or she reaches the age of 15. As the Chancellor of Justice mentioned, this may happen because the parent mistakenly assumes that, since he is an Estonian citizen, his child is an Estonian citizen. In fact, that is not the case. In order to resolve the situation, the Chancellor of Justice proposed that such people automatically be granted Estonian citizenship. The discussion revealed that there are about 500 children in Estonia. But this does not mean that they are all interested in obtaining Estonian citizenship. There are also children under one year of age who are probably granted citizenship. The representative of the Police and Border Guard Board explained that the Government of the Republic has taken the view at its meeting that if the child has lived in Estonia in fact for eight years, he or she can still obtain Estonian citizenship even if his or her parents' mistakes make him or her missing a residence permit. So far, there have been 13 such cases, which have also found a positive solution. This is a loophole in the law, which the government has discovered, but which has not yet been wound up. The reason why this gap still exists was that the representative of the Police and Border Guard Board offered that, since all matters relating to the law of citizenship are quite sensitive, it is difficult to change the law. In his address to the Commission, the Chancellor of Justice mentioned that, since he could not propose a thorough revision of the rules on citizenship, he would continue to table proposals on the basis of individual cases and this was one of those proposals. The Commission made the following decisions on the proposal: the Commission wanted to support the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice and appointed me as rapporteur. These decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U22	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U23	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Perhaps you can answer a question which, unfortunately, Mr Teder could not answer. Have you discussed what should be done with people who have lost their citizenship before and who may still be interested in obtaining Estonian citizenship? Have you had a mechanism under discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U24	As I mentioned, a positive solution has been found in 13 such cases, i.e. all these people who have lost their nationality have acquired citizenship. We have not discussed what will happen to those who are not among the 13 and who, for example, now, when reading the paper, discover that such an opportunity has arisen. But I have no reason to assume that they are somehow different. I dare hope that they too will become an Estonian citizen if they so wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U25	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Andrei Korobeinik. I'm opening negotiations. Any requests? Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U26	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President! The Group of the Estonian Centre Party supports the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. We always consider positive when one or the other provision of the Citizenship Act is amended, which has disrupted the people born and living in Estonia to become citizens of the Republic of Estonia. I came to the speaker's desk to tell you the position of the Estonian Centre Party and to speak once again about the demographic situation that is currently in Estonia. Citizenship may be illusionary, but it's still some kind of thread linking a person to his country of birth. In my opinion, at present, we should do our best to try and make use of all these opportunities in connection with the Citizenship Act. Let's take a look at history. Before World War II, at least from 1921 to 1939, natural growth in Estonia was positive, with the exception of a single year of crisis in 1929. Even after the war, the age was positive, from 1947 to 1990. The situation changed in 1991, when the increase turned sharply negative. There has only been one exception here in 2010 when there was a plus of 35 people. There is no way that these changes in the population will not be disruptive. Recently, very negative changes have taken place in the statistics on marriages and divorces. Before the war, there were 10 to 14 times more marriages than divorces, now it is 1.5 to 2. This is clearly a very negative movement, with divorces in some years almost as many as marriages. Every year, everyone knows that the population is shrinking. In the last 22 years, we have reached a minus with almost 300,000 people, and its 300,000 have not been taken into account for those who live permanently and long ago abroad but participated in the electronic census. They responded positively to a single question and are therefore considered to be natives. All of this is also reflected in the very sad situation of our school system. In the last 10 to 12 years, the number of students has fallen by about 80,000 and this process continues. Considering how many children were born seven years ago and how many of them graduated last year, the number of students in our schools should have increased by 2,500 this year, but instead it decreased by 2700. The population is ageing, young people are less and less every year, and their desire to leave Estonia is growing. Who will deal with our economy in 10, 20, 30 years, that's a big question. So any move towards amending the Citizenship Act, when new opportunities are found to gain Estonian citizenship, is, in our opinion, positive. We support the Chancellor of Justice on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U27	Thank you very much. Any more requests for negotiation? No, it's not. I'm closing the negotiations. After the negotiations, we will proceed to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the Chancellor of Justice's proposal No 21. Who is in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal? Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, no respondents or abstentions. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal has therefore been accepted. As the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, pursuant to § 152 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I hereby instruct the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to initiate a draft to bring the Citizenship Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U28	We will continue to work on our agenda items. The first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party begins. I ask Viktor Vassilyev, Member of the Riigikogu, to present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have before us a draft 290, a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to propose 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic', the content of which is that a legislative amendment should be initiated to better organise health care funding and to manage the health insurance fund in a sustainable manner, on the basis of which 20% of excise duties on alcohol and tobacco can be channelled directly into the funds of the Health Insurance Fund. So, what's with the bill? One could begin with the fact that according to the Conjuncture Institute, Estonian residents consumed 18.29 million litres of alcoholic beverages in 2011 calculated in 100% or absolute alcohol. To make this a little bit more understandable, I'll say that if you take this absolute alcohol into beer, it's a quarter of Lake Ülemiste. Each person consumed 10.2 litres of absolute alcohol per year. Taking into account the data of the Conjuncture Institute, we can claim that alcohol consumption in the Republic of Estonia has a devastating effect on the gene pool of the Estonian people. Alcohol consumption causes more than 60 illnesses and health injuries, including accidents, injuries, mental and behavioural disorders, not to mention heart disease. Every year, 500-700 people die of alcohol-related diseases in Estonia, with more than 500 of them men. Nearly a third of deaths are caused by the liver's alcohol problem, followed by alcohol poisoning and alcohol-induced mental and behavioural disorders. But there are also diseases in which alcohol plays an important role. These are partly alcohol-induced diseases. We die from them every year 9,000 10,000 people, more than half of which are women. It gives out a pretty good war measure, except half the dead are women. In addressing the Estonian Association of Family Doctors, the Estonian Health Care Workers' Trade Union and the Estonian Nurses' Association to the Riigikogu, attention has been drawn to the urgent need to provide additional funding for Estonian health care. Foreign experts talked about this several years ago. It is clear to everyone that our health care needs more money. Alcohol and tobacco excise duty is a means of implementing the state budget, aimed at reducing consumption patterns harmful to human health. However, in addition to being used as a sanction, excise duties on alcohol and tobacco must be targeted at the health care system in order to prevent health harm caused by alcohol and tobacco and to remedy the consequences of alcohol and tobacco consumption. This direct targeting of excise duty for medical treatment and the wage increase of health care workers will enable the Estonian health care system to organise treatment activities more efficiently and more specifically. As a result of all of the above, the Centre Party Group proposes to initiate a legislative amendment to direct 20% of excise duties on alcohol and tobacco directly to the funds of the Health Insurance Fund. The budget for the following year would be 20% of excise duties on alcohol and tobacco of EUR 74 million. This is the amount we get every year in addition to our health care system. I think it makes sense to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U30	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? It is. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U31	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! The problem with the Estonian state budget and taxes is that taxes have been largely pre-allocated before your initiative. Several experts have pointed out that we have a large share of fixed costs. The only tax that is not directed forward is value added tax (i.e. heavy goods vehicle tax), but the rest of the tax is passed away, i.e. how we can use about 70% of the tax is already fixed in advance. The Riigikogu can have very little influence on the formation of the budget. Why do you want to deepen the trend that the use of tax revenue would already be more foreseen?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U32	Thank you, good questioner! That's a very good question. After all, because the consumption of alcohol and tobacco products is detrimental to human health, it is quite reasonable that part of the money used by people to buy these products be directed at making good the damage that people cause themselves by their unreasonable behaviour. Since excise duties are all going into the same place as a black hole, where there is no clarity about what is going on, our proposal is that excise duties collected precisely because of unreasonable behaviour go to the benefit of improving the consequences of this unreasonable behaviour. That is actually the idea of excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. The excise duty has been imposed on alcohol and tobacco in order to compensate for the damage that people cause themselves and their country by acting unreasonablely.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U33	Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U34	Thank you! Experts believe that if alcohol consumption increases even further, to nearly 12 litres of absolute alcohol per person, this is the limit where the income from alcohol is meant by both advertising revenue and excise duty, the damage that society suffers. This should be done in such a way that if we direct part of the excise duty on alcohol and tobacco into the budget of the Health Insurance Fund (as you rightly pointed out, this money should also be channelled to prevention; the Health Insurance Fund is involved in prevention projects), it would give us considerable savings in precisely those sections of the state budget that are suffering from losses caused by alcohol and tobacco consumption. That should actually give you savings. Not now, of course, not directly. We are not talking about a change in the current state budget, but about a change in the law that would create a reasonable tendency.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U35	Thank you. The fact that you worry and hurt your heart about the damage caused by alcohol and tobacco is very positive. But as we see in the state budget, every euro and cent are on account. In addition to the Health Insurance Fund, a number of organisations are involved in preventing this problem. So I'm asking you, what would you take away that 74 thousand or million or whatever units of the euro?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U36	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U37	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U38	Thank you. Good waitress! I too fully share my concerns about the side effects of alcohol and tobacco consumption. Basically, it is your idea to channel the money from excise duty into improving health, after all, complexion. But I have a question. The previous questioner was interested in what this was at the expense of. Cultural capital is known to receive its money from excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. Is and how do you think the distribution of this money should be restructured, what should be the percentage ratio? Or are we going to liquidate the cultural capital?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U39	Thank you very much for this question. For God's sake, the authors of the bill had no intention of attacking cultural capital. Cultural Endowment has a solid place in Estonian society with its income and expenses, and it must remain that way. We have not intended to touch the Cultural Endowment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U40	Thank you. It's not an easy question. To some extent, the question is philosophical, but also existential. It is up to every member of the Riigikogu to decide what is primary: whether the budget is for people, for the people of the state, or whether it is a resident, a citizen, the taxpayer, this substrate on which the budget lives its mysterious life. I am sure that the budget should serve people's needs, because without a human being there would be no state, no budget, no finance minister, no government at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U41	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! My question stems from the questions of two colleagues, namely Aivar Sõerdi and Kaia Iva. I ask which one is more important and more important to you, either public health and survival or seemingly balanced and well-known budget lines.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U42	Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U43	Thank you, good questioner! I am afraid that EUR 74 million will not be taken from cultural capital, because there is simply no money there. I repeat, we are not going to go after the cultural capital. But you quite rightly pointed out that alcohol is too accessible in Estonia, yes. The Conjuncture Institute, which I mentioned in my presentation, carried out a study in 2012, which has been presented in the press. It turns out that 90% of the Estonian population has the nearest alcohol sales point within a 10-minute walk. Of course, measures that discourage increased consumption of alcohol and tobacco products must be complex. To this end, development plans will be developed. However, it is not the only measure that we offer to channel some excise duties on alcohol and tobacco into the health insurance fund that we have offered. This is a complex solution aimed both at combating alcohol consumption and at improving the health system that is suffering from a lack of money. We have also offered other measures that have been discussed in this Chamber. As far as the amount is concerned, this is, of course, a very large amount for cultural capital, but it is only 20% of alcohol and tobacco excise duty. It is less than 10% of the funds of the Health Insurance Fund, but it still gives much more in order to improve the health of Estonian residents. Perhaps even more importantly, if part of the excise duty on alcohol is directed directly to health, it will also have some effect on consumer behaviour. If a person who buys a bottle of alcohol or a pack of cigarettes knows that 20% of the excise duty goes to the treatment of his illness, he will be disciplined. Often, a person is aware of his or her health and possible health problems through a wallet.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U44	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Do you think that all the other measures have already been exhausted and we need to start moving huge sums such as EUR 74 million? I don't know if you happened to watch the Estonian Television Show 'Ringview' last night, showing a table of the age of alcohol availability and alcohol consumption. This situation is just terrible when we compare it with the situation in Finland and Sweden, for example. If we have 196 shops per 100000 inhabitants where alcohol is sold, there are six in Finland and four in Sweden. Have the measures that local authorities and the state can take so far been insufficient for us to go after cultural capital and take away 74 million euros, which is a huge amount of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U45	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U46	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! I understand some people's concerns about cultural capital. Indeed, if there's a little less money coming in there, there's less to share. However, 74 million euros is a very large amount. When it comes to the health insurance fund and the health insurance fund takes measures to make people drink less alcohol, and people realize that less alcohol is needed and bought less, then either way the excise duty is not collected and the cultural capital is dried up. Do you think that the result is good or bad that people can make and consume culture without alcohol?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U47	Thank you. Here again, it must be decided what is primary, whether we let thousands of people drink us to death every year and support culture through it, or whether we support culture without allowing such a civil war to take place on Estonian soil. You see, the same research carried out by the Institute of Economics in 2012 also showed that people are aware of the problem. For example, most of the interviewees were in favour of eliminating alcohol advertising from television and public spaces. At the same time, when we were in front of this hall with a draft banning alcohol advertising in public space and on television, one of the objections raised by the members of the coalition was that the income of local Estonian producers and jobs linked to the production of vodka and beer could be reduced. You see, the profits may be falling. At the time, the question remained: " It is good or bad if jobs are kept by people drinking themselves sick and to death. ' But later it became clear what it was all about. The point was that, almost a year ago, it was planned to increase excise duties on alcohol, or to fill the state budget. It turned out that the State was interested in continuing to advertise alcohol and increasing sales of alcohol. It is still up to the state to decide here whether the state is the Minister of Finance or whether the state is the people who have elected the Riigikogu and indirectly also the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U48	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask Erki Arrow, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U49	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft decision was discussed by the Monetary Commission on 6 December 2012. The purpose of the draft is to propose to the government that a legislative amendment be initiated in order to direct 20% of excise duties on alcohol and tobacco directly to the funds of the Health Insurance Fund. The debate on the subject was relatively lively in the Commission. Let me give you a few examples that were discussed in the Commission. The main question was what Mr Sõerd already raised here, too, that the costs of the state budget have already been set in advance by several laws and other legislation up to 80%, that the annual margin for decision-making is relatively small, and that would be reduced even further if this proposal was taken into account. The negative half of the budget commitment to revenue expenditure will also have an impact on the volume of revenue in different years. 20% is a very large amount distributed across the sector. In the years of economic growth, higher costs are incurred, but in the years of the economic downturn, planned activities cannot be covered and additional public support is needed to cover expenditure, for example, for health care workers. There will be no additional resources with this change. At the same time, the consequences of the amendment should also be assessed. According to the current law, 3.5% of the excise duty on alcohol and tobacco received in the state budget is transferred to cultural capital, including 0.5% to the foundation of physical culture and sport, which is part of the Cultural Endowment of Estonia. Revenue from gambling tax is transferred to the state budget and allocated in accordance with § 7 (2) of the Gambling Tax Act. There were discussions. For example, Mr Stalnukhin said that there was a need to save medicine, that changes should be made to the treatment arrangements and that a plan of action should be provided for three to five years. My colleague Nestor pointed out that healthcare is in deficit and needs additional resources. He also asked me how to get more money for health care. The problem of the shortage of doctors was brought up, especially in Ida-Virumaa. There were more emotional discussions. For example, it was said that no one would force people to consume alcohol to such an extent that they would have to be treated afterwards. That was, within a wide range, the debate. The Commission took the following decisions: Firstly, to put the draft on the agenda. a January 15th. The decision was consensual. The second decision was not so consensual. It was proposed to reject the draft at first reading. There were 6 votes for and 4 against, with no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U50	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U51	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, In recent years excise duties on alcohol and tobacco have been constantly increasing, and we will continue to face this in the future. Where do these extra resources go in the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U52	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U53	If we're watching gambling tax receipts, here's where the percentages are set. When we come to this amendment and to my personal position, I see a very specific threat here. This example already exists in Estonian society. Estonia's sport is also largely financed by the collection of gambling tax. In those years, when gambling tax was not received so well, sports had relatively difficult times. There is an estimated EUR 74 million in additional funding. I'm sure the Health Insurance Fund will put the budget in advance for a year. If this is not the case, for example, the revenue will decrease by EUR 10 million, it will be relatively difficult to implement the budget. These are, in my personal opinion, the greatest threats to this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U54	I understand from what you have said that athletes keep their fingers crossed so that the Estonian people can run more, then they can exercise more and go to competitions. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U55	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U56	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U57	Thank you. Good colleague! The Government of the Republic has been invited to discuss the issue of healthcare financing, but the Commission has adopted a decision rejecting the draft decision. It is a feeling that the government has already discussed this issue. Did the Commission discuss, has the government ever done, and if so, when did it do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U58	Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U59	Since this is a decision of the Riigikogu, the government has not made its assessment or comments. This is the decision of the Riigikogu, and this was discussed in the committee. The government has no assessment of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U60	Thank you. Dear Erki! Is it quite right to compare people who need health care with top athletes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U61	I don't think so. That's why I didn't understand Heimar Leng's question. But I really don't understand the connection when alcohol duty is transferred to the health insurance fund to fight against excessive alcohol consumption. What it would look like when you look at it from the health insurance fund is unfortunately not something we discussed in the Commission. Any such comparison here is somewhat arbitrary and not appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U62	Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U63	Thank you. Good waitress! Forgetting that doctors are getting paid so much, I ask whether there was a debate in the Commission on this subject too, that if doctors get EUR 200 more per month, for example, will the Estonian drink less.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U64	Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U65	We did not spread this debate in the Commission. But I do not think that, in the context of this draft, we can at all talk about excessive alcohol consumption or access to alcohol. When we talk about the problem of alcohol, we could certainly talk about young people getting alcohol relatively easily and drinking it too much. Young people drink too much soft alcohol. Why do they get it so easily? When we talk about alcohol excise, I think we could talk about the fact that if less alcohol had an even higher excise, then maybe it wouldn't be so available. When we are talking about combating alcohol and access to alcohol, I believe that these EUR 74 million could be given to the police instead. It would certainly be more effective if the police were to sit in front of the liquor store and watch as minors get their hands on alcohol or not. There are different ways to fight.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U66	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U67	Because Vassilyev said it could be paid by doctors. I don't think if, for example, my family doctor gets 200 euros more, I'm gonna walk past the liquor store.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U68	Thank you. Good waitress! You said you didn't see the connection between alcohol consumption and the sickness fund. But do you see the link here that the treatment of diseases caused by alcohol consumption is currently being paid out of all taxpayers' money, although it could be that those who consume alcohol would indirectly pay for the treatment of their own diseases through excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U69	Thank you. I think people should be more responsible for their way of life in the first place. The more it affects their wallets, the better they'll understand their behavior. You, who have worked in the medical sphere, understand very well that hospitals and medical companies have a budget that is approved one year in advance. When we talk about this legislative amendment, it provides specific money for the budget. If you don't get that much money, there's gotta be some way you can find it. But where? We are saying that the state budget has already been earmarked for 80% of the various laws and regulations. If the amount of excise duty is not collected, it is extremely difficult to find 74 or 20 million euros or whatever the missing amount could be. Therefore, patients who are waiting for surgery that the health insurance fund can no longer order from hospitals could suffer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U70	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U71	Thank you. Isn't it a contradiction in this bill that medical workers are interested in people running as much as possible? The more people ran, the better the medics would live.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U72	This is just as arbitrary a comparison as athletes expect people to run and smoke well, so that they do very well. I'm sure that's not the case. I hope that no doctor, no athlete or any person living in Estonia hopes that people will abuse alcohol, thinking that his life will be more beautiful and better.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U73	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U74	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, You had a great thought when you answered one question. You said you needed extra money, not for the health care system, but for the police. A policeman could sit by the store and make sure no alcohol is sold to minors. How many outlets are there in Estonia where alcohol is sold? How many cops are supposed to sit in that booth? How much would that cost? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U75	I don't know what to say. I don't know how many stores of alcohol are sold in Estonia. It is probably not possible to count it very easily either. I was just giving an example. If we are serious about how to limit the consumption of alcohol among young people, I will give an example from America, although this example is somewhat contrary to Estonian law. In America, if a bar, restaurant or nightclub gets caught by selling alcohol to a minor, he loses his liquor license and, in addition, has to pay off all day's turnover as a fine. If we were to approach this issue in Estonia with the same logic, then, I think, our larger nightclubs would stop selling alcohol to minors after the first fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U76	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U77	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You speak against yourself. Your examples may conclude that it is of little use if a policeman sits on the stairs and sees if a minor buys alcohol or not. Rather, it is literally a real result when money is allocated to the sickness fund and the sickness fund itself is involved in preventive work so that the minor never goes to buy alcohol. But you, as a long-term member of the Monetary Commission, should know that there is a nice man in Estonia like Jürgen Ligi who can charm money if there is not enough money in the budget. You said finding 20 million euros would be extremely difficult. No, it's not. As an athlete, is it really better to allocate money to the police, or is it better if we allocate money to the health insurance fund and doctors for prevention so that minors don't buy alcohol at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U78	Firstly, as long as I have been a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I have not seen Jürgen Ligi with a sorcerer's hat in committee meetings. But I think, Inara, you misunderstood. I didn't compare cops and doctors, I just said which option would be more effective if we were talking about fighting alcohol among young people. Once again, I would like to stress that the greatest risk of this bill is that if the excise duty is reduced, the health insurance fund will simply have a hole in its budget. This is, in my opinion, the greatest threat and weakness. I repeat, the funding for sport is similar. When the economic years were harder and the tax on gambling fell very heavily, for example, the Olympic Committee's budget decreased by almost 30%. It's a complicated situation. Since the budget of the Olympic Committee is relatively marginal and very small compared to the EUR 74 million we are estimated to be talking about here, it was possible to overcome this. But I can't imagine what will happen if the sickness fund lacks EUR 10 million. Where will the missing money be taken in order, for example, to carry out operations or outpatients for the last two months at the end of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U79	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U80	Thank you. Honourable speaker! As for Jürgen Ligi's Wizard's hat, you just haven't looked carefully. He's got it. If, for example, the ESM needs EUR 30 million, please! If you need EUR 60 million, please, they will find it now! But if the doctors need money, they won't find it. So you can take the Wizard's cap so it does. But my attention was drawn to your example of America. You're halfway to the coalition now. Can't you take the initiative and come up with such a legal initiative that if it is discovered that a minor has been sold alcohol, the liquor license will be withdrawn from the shop and the daily income will be transferred to the state budget? On the coalition side, it should be possible to carry it out. Would you take the initiative?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U81	Thank you. I will take this initiative to consider.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U82	Every member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask one question, so Kadri Samson unfortunately no longer has the possibility to ask. Who else would like to ask? No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Erki Arrow! Let's open the negotiations. Any requests? Representatives of the political groups will be able to give a speech during the negotiations. No calls, no negotiations. We will go to the final vote on the draft decision. Before that, there is a need for a presence check. So let's get ready for this procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the final vote on the draft decision calls for the majority of the Riigikogu to be present. We're doing a presence check. Currently 67 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 34 are missing. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft 290 of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please take a stand and vote. 28 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 36 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U83	The next item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of a 'Professional Committee of the Riigikogu to determine developments in self-governing administrative organisation' submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the member of the Riigikogu Neeme Suur!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U84	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I'm gonna tell you a story about a lawyer who handed over his practice son and retired. After working for a week, his son informed his father that in just one week he had solved a very long - term problem for a loyal customer that he had not been able to bite in ten years. The father, however, deeply grieved and asked the son what he was going to live on. This unresolved issue had fed the family for ten years, but what will the son feed his family about now? In recent times, it is not likely that one year has passed in such a way that administrative reform has not become the focus of society's attention. This seems to be like an eternal issue, which will benefit those who are in favour of it because they can support it, and also those who oppose it, because they can bravely oppose it. However, local governments and people are suffering as a result. While we here at Toompea are talking parables to each other, municipalities are fighting for the lives of their people, with increasingly scarce resources. I do not think that boredom drove the Raplamaa Municipalities Union and the national self-government federations to write appeals last spring and talk about the need for state reform. Nor do I think that the summer pickle season drove the Minister of Justice, in turn, to talk about state reform last summer and to plan a series of three-year debates. According to the Minister of Justice's plan, one idea was to change the structure of ministries and to abolish rural governments. According to the then proposal, the existing rural governments should be reorganised into service points. However, all the tasks related to the overall development of the region, i.e. the county, are transferred to the regional self-government associations. Here is an example. There are 16 municipalities in Saaremaa, 12 of them belong to the local government associations. Four municipalities (Kursaare, Kaarma, Lümanda and Kärla) do not belong to the local government associations, but 61% of the population of Saaremaa live in their territory. According to the Local Government Associations Act, the objective of the county association is to contribute to the balanced and sustainable development of the county through the joint activities of the local government units of the county, as well as to promote cooperation between the local government units of the county and to create opportunities for members to perform their statutory tasks better. How should the Saaremaa Municipalities Association perform statutory tasks if the county city and three municipalities, or 61% of the population, are not part of the Union? Municipalities are once out of local governments, once in almost all counties. Where more, where less. A good example is the city of Võru, which, on several occasions, has left the cooperation table and then returned to it again. At present, the Võrumaa Centre is not a member of the Cooperation Organisation. If anyone thinks this might be an example of the right to free will and self-determination of local governments, I ask how strong the organisation to which the then Minister of Justice intended to hand over the functions of rural government last summer. On 10 October, the Minister of Regional Affairs addressed the political parties and partners with his "six" letter. The letter was accompanied by a timetable which would allow the municipality reform to be carried out together with the 2013 municipal elections and that Parliament should deal with the draft law on the implementation of the municipal reform in January 2013, this month. As early as the end of 2011, there is a municipal development think tank with the Minister for Regional Affairs. Rarely, however, they go together and discuss the matter. On 22 October, in response to an inquiry in the Riigikogu concerning the links between the activities of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Regional Affairs, the Minister of Regional Affairs replied in this way: 'The two newspaper articles, where the Minister of Justice has expressed his wish to restructure a large part of the functioning of the state, have not been included in the Minister of Regional Affairs or our think tank. Therefore, I cannot appreciate what has been specifically mentioned in the newspaper articles referred to. If you look at this issue more broadly, the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the organisation and organisation of the Estonian public administration. ' The Minister of Finance gave very evasive answers last autumn to questions about the role of the Ministry of Finance in shaping the state administration. If all this together, what is going on with the municipalities and dealing with this issue is not a problem, then what is it? Finally, the question arises as to the role of the Riigikogu in all of this. On 23 October, the Social Democratic Party submitted a draft decision of the Riigikogu to the proceedings for the formation of a problem committee of the Riigikogu. Now it's January. I think that no one will doubt the need for substantive changes. There are probably very few local government leaders left who believe that the 'Give us more money' method could be the solution. As parties have disagreements, it is understandable that there are differences within one party. We should sit here in the Riigikogu and send out a signal that could be regarded as a guideline, not as the position of one party or one reviewer. 'Let's take the money away and they'll put themselves together' or 'Let's do nothing, they'll be fine' or 'Let's put it all together, it's gonna get better', they're not good guidelines. The Minister of Regional Affairs has made it clear that he should move towards Estonia. What's gonna happen now that the coalition isn't working together? At all, in our document locker, the issues concerning administrative reform should not be in the 'political profit' box, but rather in the 'Rational administrative organisation' or 'Best practice' box. This should not depend on the specific coalition that prevails. The coalition, of course, is a changing phenomenon. Urmas Reinsalu, Chairman of the IRL, recently sent a letter to the Minister for the Interior, which noted that, in order to succeed in the reform, they consider it essential to have a single framework in place at national level, in which the municipalities themselves can make the most suitable choices for them. That's right! I would like to ask now when and how the beginnings of this framework could arise and how confidence could arise in local governments that this framework will be in place and will remain in place for a longer period. At present, municipalities are looking for opportunities one by one, and agreements are also being made one by one. Someone's getting closer to cooperation, but somebody's getting farther away from it. But no one has any clarity, and the picture gets worse and worse. Yes, it is within the remit of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. However, looking at the issue of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which is currently focusing on strengthening parliamentary democracy in Estonia, it would not want to mislead them to a significant extent in this way. Yes, setting up committees is not a popular activity. However, committees, both permanent and temporary, are the main forms of work of the Riigikogu alongside plenary sessions. The draft Social Democrats, which provides for the establishment of an Administrative Reform Problem Committee in the Riigikogu, have been carried out with full responsibility. Its aim is to invite all parties to the table in order to find common ground among the differences and to take the steps that can be taken through the reform of self-governing administrative arrangements, for example, to strengthen the local government associations in question. Certainly, some points of the draft need to be adjusted already, as it has been three months since it was submitted. However, we could make corrections if the bill went to second reading. In any case, the topic of self-governing administrative organisation deserves the attention of the Riigikogu and this draft definitely deserves the support of all colleagues. Finally, I would like to say that the draft provides for the establishment of a committee of problems with nine members, i.e. two members from each political party represented in Parliament, and one member from non-groups. This committee would have a fixed deadline: six months from the entry into force of the decision. He would certainly be accountable to the great Chamber of Parliament. I would like to ask all my good colleagues to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U85	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Grief Dam!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U86	Thank you. Good waitress! Actually, the subject is so old, I can't even tell you how old it is. This has been said since the early 1990s, but nothing has happened. Every person has an opinion, every local government has its own goals, depending on how rich or how poor it is, how big or small it is. Do you really believe that this committee of problems will be able to come up with something surprising in this six months, something that has not been written down before in this talk board, which the Minister, the press or the local government associations have not said down? Is there anything else we can invent here? I think it's an empty breeze.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U87	When it comes to running empty winds, it was very sad to hear that expression. If we go down this mountain, every local government character that comes up against us will tell us that there is a need for change of substance. If we ask any person whether there is a need for reorganization in state or self-governing place management, people will think it would be necessary. So that's a very sad expression you used. But would we be able to find anything surprising? I think it has been surprising that, if we have been in close contact with each other and with representatives of several other parties in the last few months, we have described the ways in which we could approach a self-governing arrangement, it has become clear that the parties have quite a number of common positions. Let us take the writings of our good colleague Aivar Koka and think about what we have said about strengthening the local governments. There are places where our perceptions coincide. Even if they do not coincide with 100%, but with 60% or 40%, there is still some common element. That's what I'm convinced of right now. I am convinced that the Committee on Trouble would allow this joint part to be formulated and to tell the municipalities and the government that it is a common part and that it can go on. Otherwise, everyone's talking, but things don't really get any better.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U88	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U89	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! We are talking about the problem committee that is needed to discuss developments. But you've worked quite a bit as a local government manager yourself. Does it not seem to you that local governments should actually look in the mirror and think a little, they should learn to calculate within ten without mistakes and think about how rationally to ensure the administrative capacity of Estonia? We can do anything here, but it's not gonna come to any more money. They want to push the Troubles away, but not give up their little princely kingdom. Don't you think local government leaders should be so advanced that they themselves can find a way to live in Estonia without us interfering?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U90	Aivar, a good colleague, is now proposing that, once, perhaps when our time in the Riigikogu runs out, we happily step down from the mountain and see in front of us a new beautiful Estonia, which has been agreed and assembled by the people who carry it on the field. In general, the parliamentary organisation provides for the establishment of a judicial area by Parliament and the administration by the government. In any case, the local government can make proposals, it can join someone and do everything the current laws foresee and give opportunities for. If the laws are weak in some respects, such as cooperation between local governments, this is Parliament's problem. Certainly, municipalities can make all kinds of agreements and develop solutions. They're doing it. A number of accession negotiations are currently taking place across Estonia. These take place around Viljandi for example, two municipalities are negotiating in Pärnumaa, half of Läänemaa is currently negotiating intensely. But that means our self-government landscape is getting more and more confusing. Somewhere it's done like this, somewhere it's done differently, and nobody knows what the overall direction is. That's the problem. It would be good if we were able to create some kind of system or order in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U91	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U92	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I am not asking specifically about this Committee on Problems, but my question certainly concerns this issue. This is about the division of labour between Parliament's permanent committees. The issue of local governments is currently within the remit of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It has been discussed whether there should be a separate permanent committee in Parliament, which would only deal with local government issues, or could be dealt with, for example, by the Committee on Rural Affairs. What's your position? What form of work should be discussed permanently in Parliament on the issues of local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U93	The national associations of municipalities have proposed that there should be a permanent committee in Parliament to discuss regional policy and local authorities. This may prove to be a little complicated, as regional policy and the issue of local governments span a wide range of areas of life. When these questions are discussed in the Committee on Rural Affairs, it is not a big deal. If this is going to happen stationaryly in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, then it's not a big deal either. The proposal to set up a committee of problems was primarily due to the fact that almost every time, before the local elections, someone comes up with an excellent idea, there is a big wind going through the press, and there will be silence again. It would be good if we could find some kind of direction, some kind of shared part, regardless of the differences that exist in the political parties. This means that this committee of concern would be limited to working time, a very specific objective and accountability. He must come before the Riigikogu and say what is the common part and what is the special part. There are different ways to organise work on a permanent basis, but the problem committee now needs to be given special attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U94	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Good front speaker! What prevents the support group for local authorities and regional policy from explaining these developments? You were talking about the joint part of the parties and Mr. Cook's surprises. Why don't you find that joint in the support group, and it won't come to the big hall? Why is there a need for a separate problem committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U96	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U97	The support group is, yes, really there and it's going together. It's rare, but it does. The problem committee would be a more clearly defined form of work than a support group. It would be the governing board of the Riigikogu, it would have a fixed working time and a fixed task, and it would report to the Riigikogu where it has come to. The group is rather a think tank, but Parliament's committee of problems is a very strong parliamentary institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U98	Thank you. Good waitress! The idea of this committee has indeed gained momentum from the proposals of the local governments. There is also a great deal of talk about inclusion in the current debates on democracy. However, questions show that the Coalition does not support the formation of this Commission. Do you think that the main brake on changes in administrative organisation in Estonia is that the Minister in charge of the field, who belongs to the IRL, is unable to do all of this, or that the Reform Party that is leading the government thinks that dealing with the issue of local governments is an empty breeze? Which is more important?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U99	Thank you. The biggest problem is probably that somebody in Estonia is very carefully counting individual party policy pillars, and the higher the number, the more fun it is. That's probably the biggest problem. But I don't think all this stuff is dead or not supported by the coalition. Very many of the coalition's representatives are clear-eyed and consider it important to move forward with the issue of local governments and administrative reform. I don't think this is a hopeless matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U100	Thank you. Please, Andre Sepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We know that the Minister for Regional Affairs has convened a round table involving a very broad group to discuss this topic. As the initiator of a thought, do you know the results of this round table set up at executive level?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U102	We asked the Minister for Regional Affairs the same question a few months ago. The Minister for Regional Affairs confirmed that this think tank has come together and dealt with the issues. That we have been together and that we have dealt with the issues, we can call it a result. At the same time, the Minister for Regional Affairs has come up with his six proposals. At the time he came up with this, his address stated that the Riigikogu could deal with a package of laws in January that would allow administrative reform to be carried out during the elections of local governments in 2013. I am no longer very convinced that these laws will come to the Riigikogu in January so that we can somehow get them processed for the elections to take place this year. But whether it can be done or not, the first steps should still be taken. Some targeted steps should be taken, not those that arise spontaneously on the basis of local initiatives. I am not against the local initiative, the local initiative is the most fundamental thing that Estonia maintains, but as our Riigikogu we should be able to create some kind of favourable growth area for this local initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U103	Thank you. Please, Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The administrative reform has been carried out with almost all our neighbours. During the last municipal elections, this was also a key issue in the Republic of Finland. Can you give an example of history where Parliament's so-called Committee on Problems has solved this issue in some of our neighbouring countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U105	Unfortunately, I have no such example. I did not look at the behaviour of the parliaments of neighbouring countries in preparing the draft. But we've all been watching how our neighbours are doing with the administrative reform. In itself, the fact that there are municipal mergers in 2013 in Viljandi- or Pärnu County is great. They certainly contribute to a better capacity of local governments. So quietly, one by one, Finland has been moving for 60 years. By now, however, they have come to realize that some targeted action must be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U106	Thank you. Please, Tiina Lock-Tramberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U107	Thank you. Good waitress! It's possible that I'm now pushing in an open door and window based on peasant logic, not politics. You yourself also referred to the fact that we have two committees, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Rural Affairs, which could both deal with this issue, and something could happen in cooperation with these committees. I am sceptical about creating another committee. When I wasn't on this mountain, I read enough about the creation of these problem committees, but I haven't found much of a result back there. How do you justify this need for the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U108	Let me put it this way: perhaps the focus of these permanent committees has not been so precisely focused on the functioning of local governments. Focusing is also theoretically possible within the framework of these same permanent committees. As I said in my report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is currently working so important that I am not happy to mislead them about this. As this issue has already become a problem, we simply need to raise it separately from the day-to-day activities of the permanent committee and to deal with these issues intensively. This could also be followed by a regular committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U109	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Neeme the Great! I would like to ask Mr Väino Linde, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U110	Honourable President! Honourable colleagues, Members of the Riigikogu! This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its two meetings on 20 November and 22 November last year. We didn't do any parables there, we grabbed the bull by the horns as soon as we could say. Since around the same time a letter from the Ministry of the Interior, signed by the Regional Minister of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the initiation of the reform of the local government regime, had arrived at a debate on the two things at once. We had asked for the representatives of the initiators of the draft, as well as the head of the Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of the Interior, the Local Government and Regional Administration Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Executive Director of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, Ott Kasuri, and Tiit Kirsi, adviser to the Estonian Union of Cities. The main issue was whether to set up a separate committee of problems, as ladies and gentlemen from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, or what to do about it. We also discussed these six proposals or listened to the six different ways of further administrative reform that the Regional Minister had presented to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in his letter. Together, we recalled that two years ago, in 2010, the Riigikogu held a national debate on an important issue prepared by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, local governments and scientists. There were also many views, some of which have now been implemented. One point of view was that local governments and local governments do not currently have a home committee in the Riigikogu to which they could turn to their problems or where they could express their opinions. Based on my experience, I can say that this gap has so far been filled by the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. This may not be clear from our tasks, but in view of the fact that the preparation of the draft law on the organisation of local government has always been the responsibility of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, other problems relating to local governments have often been the subject of discussion within our committee. As far as the problem committee is concerned, the question was whether six months would be enough time or not. There were Members of the Commission who considered that this was sufficient, but some felt that this was not enough. The chairman of the committee, Rait Maruste, said that it would be useful to consider the establishment of a permanent Riigikogu committee in the field of local governments and regional policy. There was also the opinion that the formation of a new commission in the Riigikogu might not be very likely, it would be more likely to add tasks to one committee or another. But what ultimately decided that the majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not support this draft, which provides for the creation of a committee of concern to deal with an administrative matter? This was said by a good colleague of the Commission, Mart Nutt. He felt that the lack of a committee of problems was precisely the fact that the topics could be discussed there and, as the draft states, six months after the establishment of the committee, he should also submit a report to the Riigikogu, but when it comes to legislative initiative and the handling of drafts, the committee does not have such competence. This would only mean double work if it were good, because some permanent committee would still have to deal with this issue or do it next to it. On 22 November, we also discussed further the establishment of a Committee on Issues. The majority of the committee, however, came to the opinion that it would be useful to change the competences of some of the Riigikogu's committees, which in itself may not be very difficult work, which can probably also be done at the board level, or to create a new permanent committee, which would require the amendment of the Riigikogu's law on domestic and working procedures. Sometimes it is referred to as a coalition rolling over a question, without taking into account the basic facts of the draft or the pros it is actually trying to bring out. We didn't use that tactic. Today, all the political groups of the Riigikogu, the Association of Democrats and the Management Board have probably received a letter signed by the Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, which sets out the possibilities that the Riigikogu should consider which Riigikogu's permanent committee could be given additional functions and competences, whether this would require a change in the name of the committee, and how we should still discuss the problems of local governments in the Riigikogu. Today, specific reference has been made to the Committee on Rural Affairs. We realized it was very difficult to change horses halfway, it's a peasant's wisdom. Obviously, the Riigikogu does not have to make any major changes to this issue during the current term of office of the Riigikogu. However, it is appropriate to take this into account for the next composition of the Riigikogu when talking about a new commission or extending the competence of the committee and changing its name. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not received any views on this, as far as I know, but if necessary, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is always prepared to deal with the problems of local governments. On 22 November (by 6, 2 against, 2 abstentions) the Commission decided to propose that the Riigikogu plenary session reject the proposal to set up a committee of problems. I'm done with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U111	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U112	Thank you. Dear waitress, I sometimes wonder how it happens that we're sitting here together, 101 people, and we're intelligent and able to communicate friendlyly, but together we all form some kind of gray mass that works just as a brake. What is wrong with getting together nine interested members of the Riigikogu and discussing a problem that has been around us for ten years? It doesn't require any extra resources. Why is the debate abandoned? Why is it necessary to form another body of people in order to make sense of the problem that everyone understands and to find solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U113	Thank you, good questioner! I do not agree with these arguments about grey mass and the supremacy of the people's assembly, and certainly not on this issue either. But there is no one here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu who would prohibit good colleagues from meeting and debating various issues, including local governments, administrative organisation and administrative reform. After all, a support group has been set up on this issue, where these matters can certainly be discussed very accurately. The Commission on this subject, in fact the Round Table, has also been set up with the Minister for Regional Affairs. So there's already enough places to get together. However, in the light of the arguments I made here, our committee did not consider it appropriate to set up a committee on problems. If this result, which this committee of problems may eventually present, leads to the initiation of a draft, then in fact, a permanent committee of the Riigikogu will be reached, then it will be the Constitutional Committee or the Legal Affairs Committee. That would mean a double job for them. We did not see fit to support this proposal in this way at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U114	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U115	Thank you. A representative of the good Commission. Maybe you'll clarify the position of the Home Office representative and the regional minister on setting up a problem committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U116	Very correct and good point. I was gonna do it, but I probably forgot. By the mouth of his representative, the Minister of Regional Affairs kindly agreed to the formation of this Parliament's Trouble Committee. He didn't think it was much. I mean that the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu did not ask for the opinion of the Government of the Republic as a whole. I can quite confidently say that we have had this practice in the past, and so it will probably continue to be the case that Parliament will not ask for the opinion of the government or executive power in the case of drafts relating to the formation or non-formulation of its constituent bodies and executive power cannot interfere with it. But yes, the regional minister was loyal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U117	Thank you. Please, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U118	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu. Good Commission waitress! It turned out from your report that when you discussed this draft decision, at the same time you also discussed the six options proposed by the Minister for Regional Affairs to change the administrative arrangements. This regional minister's plan came to light on 10 October. You said there was no need for this problem committee, because only permanent committees can come up with legal initiatives. I'm asking you what kind of law initiatives did you get when you looked at the six plans of the Minister of Regional Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U119	Thank you. This question is presented from a slightly different perspective, not exactly as the Commission looked at the possible options arising from a letter from the Minister for Regional Affairs or how they were presented to our committee. We were not introduced to this section, which would have meant amending one law or another or initiating a draft law, but we were informed of six options, an organisational model. In my opinion, this is not a state secret, I think all the political groups and committees who have taken an interest in it know that. It was not even said which option we could prefer as representatives of the Commission, but it was simply said about the possible roads that the regional minister had hatched with his office on this issue. But in order not to remain very general, I can read from the verbatim report that one member of the Reform Party in this committee said on that day that the establishment of a permanent commission in the Riigikogu on the problematics of local governments is a very good proposal, which would be necessary in the Riigikogu, but the leaders of local governments in the Reform Party consider that the timetable proposed by the Minister of Regional Affairs for implementing the local government reform is very short and unrealistic. So the reform of the municipality is necessary, but probably not in the form proposed by the Minister in his letter.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U120	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U121	Good co-rapporteur! Please tell me what your committee has done in their administrative arrangements for almost two years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U122	Thank you. A lot.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U123	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U124	Thank you. Good waitress! I just read the coalition agreement between the IRL and the Reform Party. There is not much to be said about local governments and administration. Very laconically, there has been talk about the revenue base, regional balance and anything, but nothing about the reorganisation of public administration. I know that in 2007 the Reform Party wholeheartedly supported the proposals of the then regional minister, Vallo Reimaa. When Reimaa was no longer a minister, you didn't support this whole subject anymore. Did the Commission discuss how anything could be changed? Is everything okay with administration in Estonia now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U125	Thank you. Neither the Regional Minister's letter in which the various administrative options were set out, nor the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, were of the opinion that everything is currently exemplary and brilliant and that there is no need to change or supplement anything. The question is, when, who and how should it all be done. That was our position.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U126	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U127	Please say something about 'a lot'!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U128	Thank you. I won't.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U129	Please, Kajar Lember, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U130	Thank you. Good waitress! Do you think that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs could be prepared to do something about administrative arrangements? Are we waiting for the Minister's initiative, or are we trying to take the initiative in the Commission ourselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U131	Thank you. All 101 members of the Riigikogu are justified by law to be initiativeable in very different areas of lawmaking, including those concerning possible changes to the organisation of local government. They can submit drafts, develop new laws, etc. Here, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and its members are certainly no exceptions. However, one office and one minister, who, in my understanding, has been brought into the life of the executive authority, are very much looking forward to taking the initiative in order to deal with regional policy in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U132	Please, Eiki Nestor, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U133	I propose a procedural replacement of the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U134	That's not what we're gonna do. Neeme Big, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U135	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, You said that the Commission highlighted the fact that this committee is not in itself able to initiate drafts, and that this initiative should still be taken by some permanent committee. The establishment of a committee of concern does not take away any of the current areas of action of the Commission. Where, then, did the Commission see that as a logical error? The problem committee describes the situation, sets out the common part and the differences, brings some sort of clarity to the house, and then the permanent committee starts to develop legislative changes, for example. Where's the logic error? Where does this work scheme reveal the weakness of the problem committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U136	Thank you, good questioner! I understood that the six members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who were of the opinion that this draft should not be supported, followed the following logic. It is already old popular wisdom that a Commission must be set up to resolve a particular issue, and then everyone believes that everything is in order formally, although in essence it may not be the case at all. I guess that's why we voted like this. There is simply no need to show formally that we have done something again, that work here needs to be done in more detail and in more substance. I do not think it is necessary to set up any new committee on problems. This is not the answer to this question, but I will say that I still like my colleague Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U137	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Lein Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U138	Actually, I have a procedural question. In the debate on the second item on the agenda, I wanted to put two questions to Mr Vassilyev. George Ratas then sent a lovely girl to see me who said, "Shut up," he said, "Don't poke." But now I see that the gentlemen are asking Väino Linde a second and even a third question, namely the one who wanted to replace someone. Did George Ratas hurt me?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U139	George Ratas didn't hurt you. These are different procedures. The final vote on one draft decision will take place at first reading and the final vote at second reading. Any more questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you very much, Väino Linde! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Since the proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 302, we must vote on this proposal. We're preparing for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 302 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 42 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, with 29 abstentions. Bill 302 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U140	The next item is the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Jaanus Tamkivi, Member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U141	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There's nothing to talk about this bill for a very long time, and I'm not gonna make this up here. The proposal of the Reform Party to you is as follows. Mr Arto Aas, member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, has expressed his wish to waive his duties in this committee because he is a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs and has been elected chairman of this committee, which has led to an increase in his workload. Our group's proposal is to make this change and to appoint Andre Sepp as a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U142	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would like to ask Kajar Lember, Member of the Constitutional Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U143	Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission discussed this proposal by the Reform Party Group on 18 December. There was no very long debate. We proposed that this bill be in the Chamber on 15 January, perhaps today. Our proposal is to conclude the first reading and set a short deadline for the submission of amendments, two days, so that the Commission can start working as quickly as possible in full composition. So the proposal is to finish the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U144	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 337 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 17 January 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U145	Let's move on to the next item. This is the first reading of Aivar Riisalu, Helmen Küti, Karel Rüütli, Lembit Kaljuvee and Rein Randver's draft law amending the Hunting Act. I ask Rein Randver, a member of the Riigikogu, to present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The members of the Riigikogu Helmen Kütt, Aivar Riisalu, Lembit Kaljuvee, Karel Rüütli and the speaker presented a draft law amending the Hunting Act 328, last November, which aims to contribute to our country's hunting policy and prevent hunting from stopping in certain regions of Estonia from 1 March of this year. Pursuant to § 6 (3) of the Hunting Act, the Minister for the Environment undertakes to establish hunting areas fulfilling the conditions of the Act. The Hunting Act entered into force on 1 March 2003. Consequently, hunting areas complying with the requirements of the Hunting Act must be established and the hunting grounds organised by 1 March 2013. Ladies and gentlemen, This means that the 1994 Hunting Act has been repealed from 1 March 2003 and, under the new law, hunting areas have to be established on the basis of rental hunting grounds. § 65 of the Hunting Act sets the deadline for fulfilling the obligation ten years from the entry into force of the Act. Therefore, as of 1 March 2013, the regulations of the Minister of the Environment on the approval of the size and boundaries of the rental hunting areas issued under the Hunting Order Act will be repealed. This deadline is approaching, but the situation is that the 64 rental hunting areas have been changed to hunting areas. There is a risk that hunting in these areas will stop from 1 March. For your colleagues' information, these 64 rental hunting areas are divided into rural areas as follows: there are 4 regions in Jõgeva County, 10 in Järvamaa, 12 in Lääne County, 18 in Valgamaa and 20 in Viljandi County. Hunting areas have not been formed, but permissions issued by the Environmental Board for the use of rental hunting areas essentially end. After 1 March 2013, the existing Hunting Act does not recognise the concept of a rental hunting area. If there is no hunting area, it is not possible to issue or extend the right to use the hunting area. De facto, it's like a hunting area, de jure, but not. We are aware that the Government of the Republic has submitted a draft Hunting Act to the proceedings, which is unlikely to enter into force on 1 March 2013. Normally, after the adoption of the law and the announcement of the law, a reasonable period of time will be allowed for the entry into force of the law. But look at the draft law passed on yesterday by the Government of the Republic: until 1 March, the Riigikogu has six working weeks to process the draft and adopt the law. The initiators of the draft act doubt whether the Riigikogu will manage this time. For example, the current Hunting Act was passed in the Riigikogu on 24 April 2002 and, as I said, it entered into force on 1 March 2003. It was therefore time to bring the individuals concerned up to date with the changes and to plan their activities according to the law. We hope the same from the draft Hunting Act submitted by the Government of the Republic. It is quite likely that, from 1 March until the entry into force of the new Hunting Act, there will be no legally regulated period if the regulations of the Minister of the Environment governing the establishment of the rental hunting area do not apply, but no hunting area has been established for the same hunting area. In short, hunting stops. The Environmental Board cannot intervene in the regulation of hunting activities in a hunting area where no hunting area has been established, because the Hunting Act has not given the norm. I was talking about 64 rental hunting areas. It's a total of 685,000 hectares. There will be serious problems in this area in terms of combating game damage, issuing uninfringed hunting permits without breaking the law, certainly leading to social tensions in the regions, why not boost poaching, increasing damage to wild game, conflicts between landowners and users of hunting areas, and failure to comply with contractual conditions, as hunting activity has virtually stopped. From March onwards, hunting management plans for temporary agency hunting areas will cease to be valid, which will include data on the assessment of the habitats of wild game. On this basis, the amount of the right-of-use fee was still set, but it is not now possible to determine that amount either. As the state of Estonia is looking for every euro cent, it should be noted that at the end of the current law, the state budget will also lose a bookable amount of EUR 70000. In addition to 64 rental hunting areas, 25 other regions have problems, as their hunting ground management plans also cease to apply under the current Hunting Act. It is also not possible to charge these users the right to use the hunting area. The Estonian state loses around 38000 euros. There is a situation where the treatment of users in hunting areas violates the principle of equal treatment: some pay the right-of-use fee, others do not pay. In summary, it can be said that since March this year, 89 hunting areas are in a difficult situation, but this is about 30% of Estonia's hunting grounds. This calls into question the hunting of game and also sustainable practices, as there is no existing hunting ground management plan. As the management of hunting grounds in Estonia has been virtually eliminated, the initiators' proposal to delete the reference to the plan of hunting land in § 6 (3) of the Hunting Act has been deleted. When the decree of the Minister for the Environment is approved, the existence of habitats necessary for large game species is removed from the list, as this requires hunting ground management. The practice of applying for the right to use the hunting area has led to confusion and misinterpretation in §10 (11) of the Hunting Act, which allows the right to use to be requested within 14 days of the entry into force of the Decree of the Minister of Environment, which constitutes the hunting area, regardless of the validity of the right to use it and the right to use the area. Since the regions are currently formed on the basis of rental hunting areas and have a valid right to use the hunting grounds, we propose, in line with the principles of legal clarity, to change the wording of the paragraph. Therefore, an application for the use of a free hunting area can only be made after the Environmental Board has published the Official Notices in the Official Gazette of the notice concerned. The third draft proposal is to change the deadline. § 65 of the Hunting Act provides for a 10-year deadline for the establishment of hunting areas, which should be replaced by a 15-year deadline. Hunting land management should also be deleted from the wording of this point. There was a debate on the draft in the Committee on the Environment. I would like to thank the members of the Committee on the Environment. We had a debate and our positions were taken into account. In my opinion, this debate was very constructive. Certainly, my colleague, Kalle Palling, will talk more about the debate in the Committee on the Environment. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for listening. I hope that this bill will become a law so that hunting in the hunting areas of part of Estonia will not be interrupted from 1 March. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U147	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U148	Thank you. Good waitress! In essence, ten years ago it was already known when this deadline would end. What do you think are the main reasons why we did not react or prepare for this deadline in time, so we have to do it today exceptionally?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U149	Thank you for your question. I think that in these ten years, all the representatives of the executive power, the environmental ministers, have been quite serious about the implementation of this law. I know that over the years a number of working committees have been set up to debate the basics of the new law, to clarify its principles and to compile the draft text. In 2009, at the time of the previous Riigikogu, the draft Hunting Act was read in Parliament, but for some reason it was not adopted as a law. It's January 15th and it's March 1st. Why is it so late in this debate? I do not think that, in the final phase, the volume of work or the involvement of people and interest groups were properly assessed, what this is all about. Maybe because the deadline came very quickly. But I think that all the people who have been busy with this job have given their maximum to get this law passed. Consequently, we can say that if the draft Government of the Republic is not dealt with in Parliament by 1 March, we will have our own proposal. I would like us to take both drafts very seriously. There are people and communities back here. Hunting wants stability and continuity.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U150	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U151	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleague, I know from the old days that you're a passionate hunter. As an ex-environmental minister, you should know exactly whose work this is, what you're trying to smooth out here with suggestions. I'm very interested in who didn't do the job.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U152	Thank you for your question. We all know who the environmental ministers have been through the ages. I also know that the work has really been done. But why is it so late? I think this is also the reason for the government's unfinished work. The coalition agreement also states in 2011 that the hunting law will be updated. This has been recalled in every way and the Estonian Hunters' Society has been very active in drawing attention to this. I think that something has been missed in recent years, it has not been taken into account that this work will take a long time. We are faced with the fact that this work has still not been done for today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U153	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U154	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I am asking about this point in the coalition agreement, which provides for the modernisation of the hunting law, and also about the whole issue in general. The Ministry of the Environment has reportedly delivered a new draft Hunting Act. I understand that the main question has been 'landowner versus hunters'. Am I getting this right? Have you had time to look at this bill yet? Is this a compromise between the two sides, or who is this new draft that the Minister for the Environment, Pentus-Rosimannus, has delivered? Why don't you comment on this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U155	Thank you for your question. Yesterday, a draft Hunting Act submitted by the Government of the Republic was handed over. I'm familiar with the previous versions. Both the previous versions and the transferred draft attempt to regulate the rights of landowner and hunter. Hunting game damage has also been regulated. This is done by a decree of the Minister of the Environment. I think some sort of agreement has been reached with the draft law of the Government of the Republic. But there are daily thoughts and suggestions about the bill. With the bill, we must move forward when one or another topic has been discussed. I would like to say that the draft law of the Government of the Republic has not brought peace to the House, but we expect Parliament to deal with this draft seriously, which basically requires three things: time, time and time. But until 1 March, there is little time left.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U156	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U157	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! As was said in the Commission, the problem of this particular draft began in 2009 when the Hunting Land Management Department was dissolved at the Ministry of the Environment. That's why we missed the last hunting grounds. In the Commission, a representative of the Ministry said that at one point it was simply decided that the law would no longer be enforced. You've been a minister yourself. How is it possible that ministerial officials at one point decide that they do not comply with the law, and that the organisation of hunting grounds has not been merely dealt with in the Ministry of the Environment since 2009?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U158	Thank you for your question. You're well informed. It is true that it is likely that when the new draft Hunting Act was written, the organization of hunting lands began to be abandoned. As a result, structural changes were made in the Ministry and its administration, as it was thought that the new draft Hunting Act would regulate everything differently. It is known that Läänemaa has handed over a hunting plan, but these papers have been standing for over a year and a half. Similarly, in 2009, Viljandi County Elder approached the Ministry with his concern about the temporary agency hunting areas that need to be organised and organized. This job has not been done. All activities since 2009 have been in the light of the fact that a draft Hunting Act is coming right away, which should resolve matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U159	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U160	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Four and a half minutes ago, the press release of the Estonian Private Forest Association came into the mailbox of the members of the Riigikogu, which criticises the draft Hunting Act currently under discussion, which five members of the Riigikogu gave to the proceedings. It says here that the draft is essentially intended to maintain the current hunting regulation and to give the opportunity to delay the adoption of the new law, that it will only preserve the outdated system and so on. Why do you think the Estonian Private Forest Association has taken such a position on this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U161	Thank you. I said more thoughts come every day. The opinion of the private forest federation is, if I understand it correctly, that we are doing the wrong thing right now and that we just want to prevent something. I ask you this: as Estonian citizens, do we agree that the government's draft here will be processed in six working weeks and will be passed as a law by 1 March? Ladies and gentlemen, This is not good lawmaking practice; it is not civil society involvement; it is not a plurality of opinions; it is not so! In order to do something, we have tabled amendments to the current law so that we can move forward. The initiators of the draft act are not against the processing of the draft Hunting Act submitted by the Government of the Republic. We want to deal with this as well as possible, but time is needed for this, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U162	Thank you. Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U163	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! The questions in the hall have given the impression that the matter has not been dealt with. I know all the ministers have been involved, and the preparation of this law has been underway for six years. Why is it still in this situation? It is clear that this is a so-called antagonistic contradiction. The draft law developed by the Ministry aims to turn animals into landowner property. This is a question that we have to resolve, so everything else is going to go. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U164	Thank you for your question. Yes, as Mr Toobal said, and you too, Mr Kaljuvee, said, it is certainly a fundamental change in the Estonian hunting organisation: the cooperation of hunters with landowners. The second problem I mention is to compensate for the damage to wild game. Would it be more appropriate for it to remain largely a concern of the state, or will hunters and landowners settle and compensate each other? I'm sure there's more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U165	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Rein Randver! I would like to ask Kalle Palling, Member of the Environment Committee for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U166	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Hunting Act 328 was initiated on 21 November 2012 by Karel Rüütel, Rein Randver, Aivar Riisalu, Helmen Kütt and Lembit Kaljuvee. Rein Randver, the representative of the initiators of the draft law amending the Hunting Act, presented the content of the draft and the reasons for its submission to the Commission. Andres Talijärv explained the reasons why the draft Hunting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been delayed in reaching the Riigikogu, but confirmed that the new Hunting Act will enter the Riigikogu at the beginning of 2013 and in such a way that the Ministry has taken into account the wishes of all parties. The questions of the members of the committee followed, to which the initiators of the draft and the representative of the Ministry of the Environment replied. At the meeting of the committee, it was decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the first reading of the draft 328 be stopped, and I stress that this was a consensual decision, and to propose to the Riigikogu board that the deadline for the submission of the 328 amendments be set at 29 January. 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U167	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U168	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Please explain the reasons given by Andres Talijärv for making the draft Hunting Act to the Riigikogu for so long! What did he tell you at the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U169	I understand that the question was handed over to the Riigikogu yesterday about the draft Hunting Act submitted by the Government of the Republic. I can't find the number. The main reason why it has taken four years for the draft Hunting Act to be completed at the Ministry of the Environment is that it is already desirable to involve all parties in the Ministry and to settle the disagreements so that the government can already approve a comprehensive draft, so that fundamental disputes have already been held before the draft is submitted to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U170	Thank you. Please, Tõnis Kõiv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U171	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Commission waitress, Just a few moments ago, the private forest federation announced to the public that they felt that this bill hampered the comprehensive development of hunting and rather maintained an existing, outdated system. They point out that the new draft Hunting Act, mentioned here, from the government, would solve a number of problems and would clearly help to move forward. As a Commission waitress, can you add whether there was also talk in the committee about the competition that, if one draft was processed, it could suddenly slow down the procedure for the second draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U172	Thank you. It was mentioned in the Commission. There were different opinions. The fear was expressed that becoming the law of the draft currently being discussed could create a situation where the Riigikogu is not motivated to proceed at the necessary pace with the draft submitted by the Government of the Republic. The private forest federation has the fear that this bill will stand somewhere in the Riigikogu drawers. I can assure you there is no such plan. We certainly want to deal with the draft submitted by the Government of the Republic very thoroughly, but at the same time speedily. I do not rule out that we can adopt the draft proposed by the Government of the Republic as a law for the anniversary of the Republic. At the same time, the Commission has decided, by consensus, to close the first reading of the draft we are currently discussing, so that, at the appropriate moment, these drafts can either be merged or given certainty to hunters that nothing catastrophic will change in hunting from 1 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U173	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U174	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, The government's draft was prepared for many years, a compromise was sought. Has it become clear who needed to find this compromise and where were the main problems? Can you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U175	Thank you for your question. There were two parties: hunters and landowners. Landowners wanted a greater right to participate in their hunting arrangements on earth. In fact, much of the disagreements that arose during the negotiations have already been resolved in the draft tabled.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U176	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Mr Palling. I'm opening negotiations. Any requests? Rein Randver has the right to speak as a representative of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U177	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I brought the computer to see if there was any other news that could go on during the discussion. Two members of the Riigikogu stressed that the private forest federation has sent us an address and we, five good colleagues, authors of the draft, are preventing the comprehensive development of the hunting process and are not giving us the opportunity to process the draft law submitted by the Government of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, Where was the draft law of the Government of the Republic last November when we submitted our own draft? Of course, if the debate had taken place in November, we would be talking differently now. The draft law of the Government of the Republic was handed over yesterday at 3 p.m. and we do not have it today either. If you want to know, the Committee on the Environment quickly booked an appointment (the meeting of the committee started at 10 a.m. yesterday, the plenary session at 3 p.m.) to discuss this draft law of the Government of the Republic on Thursday. What are we talking about? What are we stopping? I think it's possible to agree in this house and also at government level. There are traditions in hunting how this area is regulated, and it is possible to work together here. We are not opposed to the procedure of the draft law that came from the Government of the Republic, but in my opinion it is not possible to deal with the draft law within six weeks, which still requires many discussions and meetings with the parties. We will, of course, make every effort to make sure that the hunt is clear after 1 March. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, nearly 30% of the hunters in Estonia can no longer hunt from 1 March. How are we gonna look at this? What, are you forgiving me? Whether one person or 30% of Estonian hunters are involved, in both cases these issues must be dealt with with with a great deal of attention in this Chamber. I very much hope that we will be able to proceed calmly and constructively with both drafts and to deal with these things together. Thank you, and thank you for your strength.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U178	Thank you. Just in case, for the sake of the verbatim report, the committee meeting was 11 o'clock, not 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U179	I was wrong for an hour. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U180	Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission's proposal was that the first reading of draft 328 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 328 amendments on 29 January 2013 at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U181	We'll continue. The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on political parties initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to present a speech chair to Kajar Lember, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U182	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of party law under discussion as such is fueling passion in Estonia. These passions have become hot to melt the ice both in the basement and in the community. But that's not what I want to talk about today. We are talking about the draft law amending the law on political parties, 304, which we have on the table today and in the decision-making process. Its amendments relate to the need to organise the technical reporting of political party funding as well as the need to establish a uniform format for the reporting of political parties, electoral associations and individual candidates. The draft gives the Commission the power to monitor the funding of political parties to establish a specific form for reports in the online environment, which will be made available online to reporting agents. The reports presented in the common environment are also comparable. The draft amends existing regulations. In a few words, I will talk about the changes that are being made, about what are the main elements on which the draft focuses. I am speaking in order to make changes, not so much in the context of importance. One fundamental point is certainly that it will be stipulated in the future that an individual candidate will also be subject to the same reporting as a party or candidate on the electoral union list who spent the election campaign separately on the costs of a party or electoral union. At the moment, it is not regulated how exactly should it be included in the report when a person who is on the list of parties has spent his or her own expenses. The amendment also provides that the party shall draw up a quarterly statement of revenue and loans received by sources at the end of the quarter and submit it to the Commission for the purpose of monitoring the financing of the parties in the form requested by the 10th day of the month following the quarter at the latest. The amendment is also that this report will be made public on the Commission's website for monitoring the funding of political parties. One more such provision is changing: so far, those who donate to the party had to figure out the list with a personal identification number, but the Commission found that this was not quite right. From now on, the date of birth will be stated and, if there are real questions, the monitoring committee will still be able to identify the person. The party is obliged to keep a website the address of which it informs the court's Registry to make the information public. The political party may only maintain and use, in the context of election costs, the current accounts which it has notified to the committee for the supervision of the funding of the parties. An individual candidate may also use only those accounts which have been notified to the committee for the monitoring of the funding of political parties in order to receive the revenue and expenditure of the election campaign. I would also like to point out that, in the future, the committee on the supervision of the financing of political parties will have the right to receive documents from all persons provided for in this law for the purpose of verifying compliance with the law. Documents shall be required in a written request setting out the purpose and legal basis of the request and also referring to the possibility of precepting in case of failure to submit the document by the deadline. These documents are generally available ten days after the Commission has requested them. This was an overview of the specific provisions. Once again, I will talk about the main objective of the draft. The aim of the draft is to organise the technical rules for reporting on political parties' funding, which form the basis for a coherent and clear report on political parties. The amendments align the accounting terms and principles used with the general financial accounting terminology and principles and lay down a uniform format for reporting. The draft removes the technical shortcomings of the law. By harmonising reporting and moving to the online environment, the administrative burden of reporting by both the political party monitoring committee and political parties, electoral associations and individual candidates will be reduced. The initiator of the draft act is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has discussed it four times with the Parliament's political party monitoring committee and also with interest groups or political parties. The first reading in the Commission took place on 4 December last year. The implementation of the Act does not entail any additional costs as the Commission's budget for monitoring the funding of political parties has the means to develop online reporting and information system. The Government of the Republic also supports the draft. In its letter of co-ordination, it has also stressed that the common environment ensures comparability of the reports submitted and that there is greater transparency in the public eye. I'm sure that's the case. The law should enter into force on 1 April 2013. The time of entry into force is linked to the fact that the Commission's monitoring of political party funding will at the same time complete the form of online reporting. The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to conclude the first reading of the draft law amending the law on political parties 304 and to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 10 working days, i.e. the deadline is 29 January 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U183	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U184	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! As you said yourself, the funding of political parties has been quite a subject of discussion lately. This is certainly not the last draft law amending the law on political parties that will arrive in Parliament in the near future. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has discussed the funding of political parties in seven sessions and has sent a letter to the Ministry of Justice on this matter. The Riigikogu also collects proposals on the supervision of political party funding. Has the Commission discussed whether this draft, which will be the end of its first reading in this Chamber today, will be waiting for all these changes proposed by the Riigikogu and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, or will this draft be dealt with in its own way? What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U185	Thank you. I certainly hope that this specific draft, which is under discussion today, will move along its own path, because it is, I say it again, a technical draft that will make terminology and reporting more transparent. At the same time, this draft can be considered as the first stage by amending party law. I believe that the public debate will certainly lead to a wide range of views. What I am not very optimistic about is that our committee or Parliament will be able to deal with all these proposals very quickly and form a law. The fact that political parties can declare their daily economic activities in a more open and uniform form could certainly take place earlier. 1 April is the deadline resulting from the obligation to report the parties on a quarterly basis, in that sense it makes perfect sense. Once again, it is quite reasonably coordinated with all the parties involved, and their proposals have also been taken into account. I think that the resulting system will work and give those who are interested in declaring and content the current reports of political parties the opportunity to look at this information on a specific website, with data being comparable. It is no longer necessary to search the data in different formats on the websites of different political parties or to pursue where this link or whatever it is. The new system will ensure that these data are accessible and comparable from one place to another.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U186	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U187	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! Local elections are coming up, and electoral alliances are also running alongside political parties. You will certainly be able to describe what changes might be in reporting or, for example, new responsibilities of the electoral alliances. Practice has shown that the reporting of electoral alliances after the elections has been weaker than that of political parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U188	According to the current regulation, the individual candidate, the electoral union and the party are slightly different in terms of reporting and it has been difficult to compare. The proposed amendments harmonise, inter alia, the reporting formats. In particular, I note that the individual candidate must indicate in the report the sources of funding by type of funding used in the electoral campaign. The donation shall be indicated by the name of the donor, the value of the donation, the date of its receipt, etc. If personal property is used, it must also reflect the size of its contribution. So individual candidates will report in the same way as political parties. After all, the electoral union can use, for example, loans or other funds to carry out electoral expenditure. This too must now be declared very precisely. The final message is perhaps that in the future, the side of recording the expenses of the individual candidate, the electoral union and the party will be more similar than it has been so far. Harmonisation is perhaps the most important keyword of this draft. It is also important that the committee on the monitoring of political parties' funding will have slightly higher rights to ask information from both the electoral union and the individual candidate, should there be a need to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U189	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U190	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I'm asking as a media person. Have you discussed this, too, or have you thought about how any report could reflect such strange events, when, for example, the whole media suddenly completely free of charge, so-called free will is lined up behind one candidate, and nobody, like, knows who actually pays for these services and how it all works? The person honestly writes in the report that he spent zero euros at zero cents on his election campaign, but if we look at the volume of advertising, we understand that this is not the case. How's that gonna work in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U191	Thank you for your question. Perhaps it must start with the fact that a bill designed to improve such technical reporting cannot produce pig meat with a limestone bang (if you quote Estonian literature classics) or hope that it will solve all the problems with one stroke. I think that this issue is more of a debate today in the process of the ice platter or the people's assembly, where these proposals are collected. One very clear proposal has been that, in the event of doubt, the Commission's monitoring of the funding of political parties could have the right to commission an independent audit, which should adequately review the funding of electoral campaigns and compare these data with one another. If it turns out that the election advertising of a political party, an individual candidate or an election union has been several times cheaper than others, or somehow very clearly shifted, that there is an anomaly, then the Commission would have the power to investigate and control it and to impose sanctions. This is not directly the subject of this draft, but I hope that the next draft law amending the law on political parties, which is on this table, will also set out such things.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U192	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Kajar Lember! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The commission's proposal was to finish the first reading. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 304 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 January 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U193	We're going to the next item. This is the first reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. For a presentation, please, a member of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi! As there is less than eight minutes to the end of the sitting, I will say that this report will be closed at exactly the time the rapporteur has planned. In any case, we're going to finish this operation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U194	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce you to the draft amending Act on VAT. But first I'll tell you a story about real life. You remember that during the last session, we tried to restore the funeral allowance. This topic was widely welcomed by the media and was reflected in a great deal. The result is that from time to time, people who are struggling with burying their loved ones turn to me as the initiator of this bill. Just a few days ago, I received a letter from a gentleman from South Estonia asking if the crematorium was doing the right thing. He wrote that his brother died and he had his brother's body cremated. Then he was told that it would be done, but first he had to pay the bill, then the service was provided. He asked me if it was right. It makes sense that they cremate first and then pay the bill. At that, the head of the crematorium took him to the back room and showed him shelves full of urns that had not been bought out by relatives. People use such a trick to cremate their loved one's body, knowing in advance that it's not affordable for them, and then they just don't buy out the urn. All Estonian crematoriums are in trouble with this. We failed to restore our support for the funeral. The government reasoned that helping people is the responsibility of local governments and that is what they have to deal with. This time we will try to lower the VAT rate on funeral goods and services. As we said last time, the cheapest cremation with the use of chapel costs 500 euros in Tallinn, for example. According to social workers (we interviewed quite a few local governments), the average price of the funeral package in Estonia is about 700 euros. Currently, the VAT rate is 18%. If we brought it down to 9%, the net monetary gain would be EUR 65, or the average funeral package would not cost EUR 700, but EUR 635. It's still money, it's a little over a thousand kroons in old currency. That is the content of our proposal. The rise in the tax on funeral goods and services and the abolition of funeral allowance have worsened the situation of households with lower incomes in particular. It may happen (often this happens) that less insured people have no choice but to have the deceased cremated or buried at the expense of the local government than an uninhabited person because of a lack of money. I've already talked about it, but since repetition is the mother of wisdom, I will repeat it again. Personally, I know dozens of cases I do not exaggerate, they are also known by the social workers of every municipality and city, when people have been forced to take fast loans to solve this problem. It's not normal. The bill makes it possible to ensure that all members of society are sent away in a dignified manner, regardless of the financial situation of the person or his or her family. organizing a funeral is a very difficult emotional and financial challenge for families. The funeral is an important part of the period of mourning, but some families need to invent all kinds of financial schemes to arrange it. According to Statistics Estonia, 15244 people died in Estonia in 2011. The maximum cost of the draft was calculated on the basis of the average cost of organising the funeral, which is EUR 700, as I have already mentioned. If we assume that in the next year or the next year, about just as many people will die, and hardly more, because we know that the population has slightly decreased in the meantime, it would take about EUR 1 million to implement this bill as a law. Since we expect this draft to become law as of 1 January 2014, this hypothetical cost could be taken into account when drawing up the next budget. One last thing I want to say. That is certainly what the Commission's waitress is talking about. When I read the position of the Ministry of Finance, signed by Minister Ligi, I was seriously hurt by a sentence. The fact that, when a reduced rate is applied, those purchasing more expensive goods or services will receive a higher advantage. I find this logic inappropriate because to talk about someone buying some kind of luxurious coffin for a loved one isn't quite right. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U195	Thank you. I'm going to be more specific about the verbatim. You said that VAT is 18%, in fact it is 20%. The explanatory memorandum is correct. We have time to ask a question. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U196	Thank you. Mr. defender of the bill! It is now a very difficult burden to organise a funeral after leaving a family close to many, because funeral services are expensive in Estonia. In the Committee on Monetary Affairs, however, it was also the opinion that if VAT were to be reduced from 20% to 9%, which means that the end-service could be reduced by about 10%, it would not make funerals cheap, but it would still be a burden for these people. What can you say to such a statement? Doesn't a 10% cut in the final price really work if the funeral is expensive?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U197	Thank you for asking! In my opinion, of course, this service is expensive. But let us be honest, we have 226 local authorities, and many of them have a funeral allowance, if it exists at all, even less than the ten percent difference that would result from the adoption of this bill as a law. So that's it. As I have already said, if this whole procedure costs EUR 700, then EUR 65 is also the money that some families can live with for a few weeks. I agree it's not enough, but better half an egg than an empty shell.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-15_U198	Thank you very much. The next recorded speeches will be postponed to the next, i.e. tomorrow's, sitting. Today's trial is over. Thank you very much for the waitress. Thank you very much to all participants. Have a good day. Closure of the sitting at 1 p.m.
