ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the third working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Law on Place Names and Land Books Act. Siim Valmar Kiisler, Minister of Regional Affairs, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Fire Safety Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, in the proceedings of this bill. Thirdly, a draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act, the Rescue Services Act and related laws. The Government of the Republic is also represented by Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, when this bill is being processed. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Civil Service Act and other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu in Taavi Rõiva, Minister of Social Affairs. Fifthly, the draft law amending the External Action Service Act and the Civil Service Act. Urmas Paet, Minister of Foreign Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will report an inquiry to Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher. The subject of the inquiry is vacancies in the Prefecture of the East. It has been a few months since I stood here in front of you on the remote and asked for support from the Central Party Group's proposal to lower the language requirements for relief police officers from level C1 to level B2. Then there was a long discussion, during which I hope that you will remember that, and we agreed on this. C1 is, however, the level of language proficiency of the members of the Riigikogu, but a police officer, especially an assistant police officer, could manage the level of B2. Now the news came that a high-level police officer approached the Ministry of the Interior and asked not for the language proficiency requirements for relief officers, but for the border inspection post, cordon, border guard ship, readiness unit or flight crew to be lowered to B2. The people who do this work in practice understand it much better than the Minister and, I must admit, we in this Chamber. In this regard, I am asking the Minister several questions. For example, I ask who takes political responsibility for the freedom of 108 posts in the Eastern Prefecture and no one fulfils the obligations that these men should fulfil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U5	Thank you. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U6	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I am handing over the draft law amending the Income Tax Act. We have all noticed that a lively debate has begun in recent weeks on the fact that people on lower and middle incomes are being taxed too much. There have been different opinions. Jürgen Ligi has said that if the reduction in the tax rate is to be stopped, uncertainty in the future could increase the tax-free minimum as a next move. IRL has promised, through the words of Tõnis Palats, that the tax-free minimum could be increased immediately to EUR 5000. Sometimes there are reasonable options. We, too, are passing on one sensible option that has a clear source of cover. This source of coverage allows the tax-free minimum to be raised from the current 144 euros to 179 euros, while the planned reduction of 1% in income tax from 2015 should be avoided. Why does that seem fair? Because raising the income tax-free minimum would benefit every employed person from EUR 88.2. In doing so, it would also address the problem that several pensioners have discovered that they have to pay income tax on their pension. On the other hand, up until now, VAT and excise duties, or consumption taxes, have been raised, which put a burden on people with lower incomes in particular, and have tried to compensate for this by reducing income tax by 1%. In fact, people earning the minimum wage only €19.58 a year, but for example, people with a monthly salary of €3500 nearly 20 times more than €385. So raising the tax-free minimum will help to ease the increased tax burden more fairly, especially in crisis years. A ten-page explanatory memorandum is also attached to the draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U7	Thank you. Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U8	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of a member of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I will address the inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The inquiry concerns an increase in drug deaths in 2012. Why are we asking the Prime Minister about this? On this subject, I asked the Minister for the Interior last week, but unfortunately I did not get any meaningful answers. The fact is that last year the national strategy for drug prevention, which had been dealt with for ten years, ended. It is sad to note that in 2001, when this strategy began to be dealt with, there were 38 drug deaths in Estonia, but in ten years the number has increased to 160. While it was estimated that 24% of young people aged 15 to 16 (including those who have taken drugs) had access to drugs at the start of the strategy, it is now 32% available. It seems that this was rather a national strategy for the spread of drug addiction, which is why we have six questions for the Prime Minister. We want to know how he feels about the claims made by the Minister of the Interior in the Riigikogu Question Time and how he appreciates the cooperation of the authorities over the last ten years in order to reduce the serious problem of drug deaths in Estonia. We are not just at the forefront of Europe, but in Estonia there are eight times more drug deaths than in Europe on average. So there's something to think about, especially in the light of the fact that in nine years' time, we'll have a census again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U9	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted six draft laws and two inquiries. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to process them within three working days. If inquiries comply with this law, I shall immediately forward them to the addressees. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them: the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu. A draft of the decision of the Riigikogu "Announcement of a Member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council, a recognized expert in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting," submitted on 23 January, with the leading committee being the Committee on Culture, and the Estonian Central Party's political group. a draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act and the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities, launched on 23 January, of which the Committee on Social Affairs is the lead committee. I have forwarded the questioning of the members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The members of the Riigikogu have formed a Tallinn Support Group. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12. Ladies and gentlemen, let us go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks. I shall put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U10	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. Members of the Riigikogu Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Rainer Vakra, Kalle Laanet and Deniss Borodich submitted an inquiry on 6 December last year about the waiting area fee at the road border crossing points. Mr Inara Luigas to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U11	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, We have submitted an inquiry into the fees charged at road border crossing points: the border order reservation fee and the waiting area fee. On 28 March 2011, the Minister of the Interior Marko Pomerants and the chairman of the management board of the GmbH Girf, who successfully participated in the public competition, signed Hannes Plinte's management contract, which created a single waiting list information system for border crossings at Estonian road border crossing points. Since 1 August 2011, the rules for crossing the border changed and the GoSwift system became effective. To date, it is an obligation to book a place in the electronic border queue for all motor vehicles when driving towards Russia. You can pre-book a border crossing, but you can also travel to the border without a reservation and register in a live queue in a waiting area near the border crossing point, make a reservation and wait for a border crossing permit. In addition to the reservation fee, a waiting period is also required. It shall be between EUR 2,50 and EUR 4,50 depending on the border inspection post. However, due to the introduction of electronic border queues, there is often a situation at the border where there is no queue and therefore there is no need to use the so-called waiting area. There is an opportunity to cross the Estonian-Russian border directly without passing the waiting area. At the border crossing, however, drivers who have a reservation and who have paid for it will be returned to the waiting area where they will have to pay the waiting fee. In fact, the border cannot be crossed until the waiting area has been reached without any reason to wait there. Not only have I received a great deal of writing on this subject but I have also received oral proposals. In order to make the question more clear, I brought along one of the last letters sent, which reads: '11. On 1 January 2013, we wanted to enter the Koidula road border crossing with a view to traveling to Russia. The traffic is directed towards the Koidula waiting area by means of traffic management equipment. Since the reservation system did not have any bookings at this time and before entering the waiting area, we could see that the Koidula road border point was empty, we wanted to go through the waiting area without using the waiting time service. We were not released from the waiting area, but were required to pay for both the waiting queue and the Koidula waiting area service. In addition, we received confirmation at the service point that there are zero passenger cars in live order and three trucks that use their lane and queue when crossing the border at the road border point. After the sums were paid, we were able to move to the road border crossing immediately. ' Pursuant to § 82 (4) of the State Border Act, state supervision is carried out by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and, under the authority of the Minister of Interior, the Police and Border Guard Board of the Ministry of Police and under the authority of the Ministry of Interior. According to § 83 (4) of the same Act, the use of a waiting area for border crossings is not charged if the vehicle is placed in a waiting area for border crossings, but does not actually use the waiting area service for border crossings and is immediately sent to the border crossing point for border crossings. In this case, the South-East Estonian citizen asks whether it was justified to charge a waiting period at the Koidula border crossing point and in which cases the waiting period is taken at all. He has added such a eloquent sentence: 'In the present time, the Koidula border point is empty, there are only wolves howling. Border guards shouldn't charge any waiting allowances. ' The Alliance of Democrats has five questions that we ask the Minister of the Interior to answer. I would very much like the Minister of the Interior to take account of the input prescribed by the Chancellor of Justice in his reply to the autopsy on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U12	Thank you very much, Mr Luigas. I'd like to ask the Minister of the Interior for the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U13	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you very much for your questions. We have been discussing this issue quite recently in the Riigikogu in the context of our inquiry, but it is always a great pleasure and an honour to revisit matters when it is necessary and honourable Members address them. The first two questions: 'Why do passengers who pass a waiting area have to pay a waiting period, even though they do not consume the services provided free of charge in the waiting area? Why is it mandatory to cross waiting areas at Estonian-Russian road border crossing points, although electronic border crossings do not need to pass through the waiting area? ' I will answer and, as you asked, I will try to be as exhaustive as possible in my answers. Before creating a waiting-order management system for border crossings, the situation was such that the vehicle could not leave Estonia at all through the road border crossing point of the eastern border of Estonia without a waiting period of several days. I think a lot of people remember that vehicles were waiting for border crossings on the side of the road, there were several kilometres of queues that prevented traffic and damaged the environment. This situation caused people a great deal of discomfort. I dare say that this was one of Estonia's stains, which was said for ten years. There was also an undue presence in the queue of border crossings without the actual intention of crossing the border and there was illegal sale of the queue. Physical waiting lists for border crossings along the highway were also daily. People were not aware of when it would be possible to cross the border. All this reduced Estonia's attractiveness to tourists, damaged the business and economic environment and was a serious concern in Estonian society. The waiting list system for the siege launched on 1 August 2011 consists of a waiting list and waiting areas. It has solved these problems today. We can group the waiting area service that you mentioned in your questions into two types: border management services and domestic services in the waiting area. Cross-border waiting-order management services include, according to the Ministry of the Interior, waiting queues for border crossings, parking in the vehicle waiting area while waiting for border crossings, placing the vehicle at the border crossing point and receiving the vehicle at the road border crossing point. For example, access to the internet, lighting and surveillance of the waiting area, including video surveillance, collection of municipal waste and access to toilets, are considered as "home services'. In terms of price formation, however, a waiting area service is a complete service, as it is not reasonable to keep records of each part of the service provided by the law and to invoice it separately. This would make the service significantly more expensive for each part of the service. We therefore believe that it is justified to charge for the use of the waiting area, regardless of the proportion of the waiting-order services and the waiting-space services. You are also asking why border guards do not allow crossing the border and send people back from the border to cross the waiting area. I will answer first with a reference to the law of the state border. According to § 81 (2) thereof, the Police and Border Guard Board will direct a vehicle wishing to cross a border to a waiting area, using traffic management tools where necessary to ensure road safety, reduce adverse effects on the natural environment, organise the entry of vehicles to a road border crossing point and ensure public order. No vehicle which is not a motor vehicle within the meaning of the Traffic Act or a regular service on a particular route within the meaning of the Public Transport Act shall be placed on the waiting area. Thus, if the Police and Border Guard Board applies this barn, it is mandatory to pass the waiting area in addition to the reservation so that the waiting area manager can check the correctness of persons, vehicles and goods. Without control, the situation before the establishment of the border order system would be restored. This is what I described at the beginning of the inquiry, and we certainly do not want this situation back. The last question is: 'What are the differences where the driver does not have to make reservations and is allowed to pass through the road border crossing point without waiting lists? ' Here I can refer again to § 81 (3) of the State Border Act, according to which the Police and Border Guard Board may allow a vehicle to a road border point without taking a seat in waiting order and passing a waiting area, if this is necessary for reasons of public policy, national security or public health protection, it is a service requirement, it is due to law or other regulations such as an external agreement, or there is other public interest. In that case, the fee shall not be charged. We have already told you that there are no regular public transport vehicles, as well as holders of diplomatic passports. This point shall also be applied on a case-by-case basis. If a request is made, the Police and Border Guard Board will assess the feasibility and make a decision. Current practice has shown that decisions relate primarily to international practice, including the need for a service. Examples include various official delegations. I can also highlight the specific cases where the vehicle was directed directly to the border crossing waiting area. In the absence of any queue of border crossings, i.e. there were no pre-bookings, no fee was charged for the use of the waiting time for border crossings, i.e. the possibility of free border crossing provided for in the law was implemented. The first case is from the year before that, when the barrier was substantially lifted at the turn of the year, the vehicles crossed the waiting area on the Estonian-Russian border without paying any fees and because there was no queue. Another example is almost half a year ago, when the tourist buses were also not charged at a particular moment when there was no waiting list. We can talk here about a situation where there is no waiting list. When it comes to queues, and this is the case in most cases, this order requires management, direction and coordination, and costs are involved. Of course, they'll charge you. The last question: 'How often is the implementation of the management contract being reviewed and has the Ministry of the Interior not discovered violations arising from the management contract? 'This national supervision is required to be carried out by the Police and Border Guard Board, which has organised several planned and two emergency inspections. In the course of the planned monitoring, some technical shortcomings were identified. Emergency supervision has also been carried out, for example, on a newspaper article published in September, where there was talk about crossing the Estonian and Russian borders. However, the arguments set out in this article were not confirmed. The second exceptional national supervision was initiated by the PBA itself to verify whether the employees of the Koidula waiting area intentionally modify the information system. During the monitoring process, this activity was confirmed and consequently the lounge administrator took action to prevent these cases from occurring again. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U14	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. Let's start asking questions. Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U15	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister of the Interior! When I took a look at the question, I asked you to focus more on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice has sent you a letter and has analysed the border crossing. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal is to stop charging drivers of all categories of vehicles for the use of a waiting area at the border crossing points in Koidula and Luhamaa if the following conditions are met: the vehicle has been placed in a queue in the electronic border reservation environment and the only service provided by the lounge manager is to point the vehicle at the border crossing point and the necessary steps are to do so. How do you explain that? What have you done specifically on the basis of the proposals made by the Chancellor of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U16	Thank you for your question. The Chancellor of Justice has been answered. I have presented our position on the relevant provision of the State Border Act that this service is a whole. It is not possible to divide the service into parts, it is inefficient and it was not our opinion that this law was the point of the law. As a result, I gave examples when people have been placed in the waiting area free of charge and have been allowed to cross the border between Estonia and Russia free of charge. There have been cases. In most cases, however, there is a waiting list, the costs involved and the fees charged. It can be said that the established border crossing system has fully justified itself as a whole. Estonia is being set as an example in terms of border crossing and booking information system for quite a number of countries. Amazingly, even our good northern neighbours Finns have visited Estonia to explore what system has been created here and whether it could be implemented by them. I think that this system, which was put into effect in August 2011, has been fully operational. It can be said that there are always shortcomings in the start-up of the new system, but many of them have now been eliminated. Of course, smaller grinding can be done on a rolling basis, but the big concern about crossing the border between Estonia and Russia has been solved as a whole. I think that good innovative solutions such as these, involving different information systems and using modern electronic means, need to be implemented more in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U17	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U18	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. As I understand it, these waiting areas are built for taxpayers' money and management services are provided by a private company. Or did I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U19	Thank you very much. The waiting areas are different, they're constructed differently. For example, Sillamäe waiting area has been built with the aid of European Union funds. The information and booking system has been built by the private sector. Separate contracts have been concluded with the private sector for the management of this system, which also justifies charging. Taxpayer's resources are very little spent to build this whole information and booking system. As you will remember, in 2009 and 2010 the country had a particularly difficult economic situation. I am pleased that overall cooperation with the private sector has gone positive and that since 1 August, these systems are still being implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U20	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U21	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Years ago, Chancellor Narva, who was then the Chancellor of Justice, wrote that taking money in the waiting area was forbidden, it was unconstitutional. The local government had no way of getting away with it. It had to be done. An analogous proposal will come to you as a minister, but you will not follow this order. You're a certified lawyer. Explain to me the difference between the two legal subjects within the meaning of the Constitution. Why do we have to comply with the law, but you don't?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U22	Thank you for your question. You're putting different things together here, just like they often do. The Chancellor of Justice has his own position, his own opinion, the legislator has his own position. Those who have to enforce the law must also be guided by the will expressed by the legislator. I've been trying to explain that point. We have sent the Chancellor of Justice a position on his opinion. In replying to the question today, I explained that it is precisely because it is a comprehensive service that is justified to charge a standstill fee. In our opinion, this is appropriate to the will of the legislator, and I think it also outweighs the various disputes. Disputes and discourses must always be kept clear to the parties. The adoption of amendments to the State Border Act also outweighs the problem we are discussing today: whether or not it is possible to charge a fee for one service or another. We have actually solved one concern in Estonia. If you have any other solution to manage the waiting areas and the information and booking systems that have been put in place to prevent chaos on the Estonian-Russian border, which was there for ten years, then make your proposal. You are the legislator's representative, make your proposal! The legislator will be able to review the national border law, specify the will of the legislator, make proposals on fees or their abolition. But what is essentially achieved now is that people know when they can cross the border, they do not have to suffer in line. We do not pollute nature, we do not cause chaos, congestion or any other damage to Estonian tourism and economy. It's lost. I think it is an excellent achievement that we have achieved with our administration. As I said, there is no reason to go to Estonia to learn from our experiences. Many European countries are struggling with individuals, trucks, tourist buses and other traffic crossing national borders. I think we have got this thing to work nicely in Estonia and from here we can only move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U23	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I am going to be more specific, because at the moment it cannot be said that the Minister and the Chancellor of Justice are in a different position. Why? About ten years ago, there was a Supreme Court hearing, where the decision put exactly what can and cannot be done: there is no charge for border crossings, a fee may be charged for the service. This two-and-a-half-year experience, which the Ministry has, perhaps needs to be reviewed and specified, put in place so that there are fewer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U25	Thank you! I think that's a good point. It is always possible to clarify, it is necessary to make matters even more clear when the parties have different opinions. I think it is important that we have solved one problem on a very large scale. Let us not forget that the law on the national border was amended in order to resolve the real vital issue. Everyone who wanted to cross the Estonian-Russian border at any time experienced this need. It was extremely difficult and very difficult for everyone, both foreign visitors and Estonian residents. Of course, if the law requires certain topics to be spelled out more precisely, then we are fully prepared to do so. We are working with all parties, we are giving our views and opinions and, of course, we are making sure that this system, which has been put in place, works and can be used comfortably by people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U26	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I will open negotiations, and I would like to ask my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin to speak first. Stalnukhin gets the floor first.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U27	I'm sorry! I just wanted to say that the first word is usually given to the representative of the authors of the inquiry. I was going to tell a nice story that illustrates how interesting it is to live near the border. I've got a lot of these stories. I have a picture on my phone that shows me how life works at the border. Our fishermen are standing in the Narva River with their boots in the water, and the floats are already on the Russian side. A lot of interesting things happen at the border, but with what I just heard from the Minister, I'm changing the subject. He spoke of shortened queues, waiting areas, etc., using the expression 'this is a great achievement that we have achieved with our administration'. Typical, perfectly typical! Long queues, purchase of a queue place was really a sad practice. Cars were standing in the city and we didn't have anything to breathe, especially in winter, because the windows couldn't be opened to clear the rooms, etc. Since the country did not want to deal with the problem of border crossing, Narva took up this problem and we had a waiting area, we had a city company that started working on it. Electronic declaration was introduced in our company Transservis-N. Electronic queue was introduced in this same company. When all this was prepared, when we started taking over this experience from Latvia, even Finland, the government said: 'Now the technical problems have been solved, now the European money has come, we are building a new place, but we are not doing it in Narva, but we are doing it somewhere else. " Therefore, the work that belonged to the Narvas before it was also handed over to someone else. So, ladies and gentlemen, the border is still a complex set of problems. These problems never end. The only way to solve them is if they are dealt with by people who are dependent on solving them themselves. We have not had a better situation than when we introduced electronic registration and declaration. I've still got a minute and a half. I'll tell you a little bit more. Yesterday I met the voters at the big club, half the hall was full of people. People asked questions that they consider important. A gentleman asked a question about Russian tourists who support our trade. It must be acknowledged that the food that is sold in Estonia is now of higher quality than that sold on the other side of the river. Narva's been chasing food. When those people who work for our sellers and pay money for the food that is produced and sold in Estonia go back, they stand at the border for three or four hours, just because there is no one to sit behind the two counters. It would even be possible to get three people to work, and then there would be no order. But usually these queues are still so long that you have to stand for two or three hours. The state has adopted regulation in this area, is doing what the Chancellor of Justice has forbidden us, is doing it freely and does not feel guilty about anything. It's just a normal thing. The only way for this system to work in a human way is to delegate the management of the border order to the local government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U28	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. Inara Luigas, colleague of the speaker's desk, please. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U29	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, To begin with, I was quite shocked by your response today. When I introduced the inquiry, I asked you to focus on the proposals of the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice has sent you proposals that the infringement should be eliminated and has acknowledged that the imposition of a waiting period, or regulation, which is currently at the border crossing points, is breaking the law. People are being illegally charged with waiting allowances. You say you have great accomplishments. I reply in this way that great achievements must not be won by exploiting people. I don't think you know what's going on in your administration, you haven't gotten into these issues. So let me open up all these illegal nuances a little bit. I'm not gonna explain what a waiting area is. This is a parking area where vehicles come to the border crossing and wait for their queue. Currently, all vehicles at both Luhamaa and Koidula border crossing points have to pass through this waiting area, including those for which there is an Internet reservation before arriving at the border in the order of the border crossing. This means that the reservation is already made at home, not in the waiting area. An electronic border queue booking environment has been created for this purpose online at two addresses. At present, however, all vehicles heading to the border crossing point have to pay a fee for the use of the waiting area. The waiting period is laid down in an administrative contract concluded between the Minister of the Interior and Paldiski Harbours AS. The problem is that this fee must be paid by all drivers, regardless of whether they make reservations in the waiting area and use waiting area services, or whether they have made a prior electronic booking at home and do not need waiting area services. Mandatoryly, they will be placed in a waiting area, subject to the levy of a waiting period, even though they will not use the service. The fee shall be charged regardless of how long they have been in the waiting area, regardless of whether they are compulsory to be placed in the waiting area only in order for them to stop behind the barrier for a moment and then proceed to the border crossing point. The question is whether the waiting period may still be taken from those who have booked and paid for their place in the electronic border order system and whose vehicle will be transferred to the waiting area only in order for it to proceed to the border crossing point. The State Border Act regulates the organisation of entry of vehicles at the road border crossing point. According to the legal provision, a motor vehicle may only be placed in a waiting area if it is necessary to ensure road safety, to reduce the adverse effects on the natural environment, to organise the entry of vehicles to a road border crossing point or to ensure public order. Currently, border queues have disappeared in Koidula and Luhamaa. I don't know when the Minister of the Interior last went to the border between Luhamaa and Koidula. As often as a citizen crossing the border, I can say that there are almost no border queues. Much has been said about this subject in the media, there has also been a brief overview of it in the 'Actual Camera'. The reporter also visited the Koidula border crossing and said that there were no border queues. So I can say that the threat to road safety, to the natural environment and also to public order has disappeared. Once the need to switch to a waiting area has disappeared, the need to drive to a waiting area and to reroute vehicles to a waiting area has disappeared, so no one has the right to direct the vehicle to a waiting area. The electronic queue of border crossings ensures the capacity of border crossing points and the queue of vehicles for border crossings does not exist. As this is the case, drivers will not be obliged to pay the fee for the use of the waiting area. In this proposal, which the Chancellor of Justice has sent to the Minister for the Interior, he also considers that the fee for the use of the waiting area may be charged only if the vehicle uses one of the services provided for in § 81 (6) of the State Border Act in addition to the border crossing point. This means that the fee can only be charged if the vehicle is not placed in the queue in the electronic border queue booking environment and the seat is taken through the waiting area manager and the vehicle waits in the waiting area. The fee will, of course, also be charged if the vehicle is parked in the waiting area for a longer period. If the driver has booked his queue online and paid for it, the waiting fee may only be charged for the service he receives in the waiting area, with the exception of the waiting fee for the border crossing. However, the current situation in which drivers who have booked and paid for the place online also pay a waiting period is unacceptable. In turn, the waiting fee includes a reservation fee for the border crossing, which means that the vehicle owner who pays the queue booking and the waiting fee for the border crossing will pay twice for the booking of the queue. This is a completely unacceptable situation. Dear Ken-Mart Vaher! In your letter of reply, you have written to the Chancellor of Justice that § 8 (4) of the State Border Act must be implemented only when the queues for border crossings disappear and there is no need to use waiting areas to keep the queue for border crossings of vehicles. There are currently no queues for border crossings. Thus, all these legal provisions are violated and the remuneration for the use of the waiting area is completely unlawful. I can say that due to the regulations of the Chancellor of Justice and the laws in force, there must be no waiting period, either today or tomorrow. If this is done, it is a clear violation of the law. If the Minister of the Interior wishes to speak, I would like to ask him to explain to the people how those vehicle owners who have paid the waiting fee in addition to the border reservation fee will receive the money back. If we do not find out here today, we promise that we will definitely make our proposals. I promise that we will present an inquiry to both the Chancellor of Justice and the Prime Minister, perhaps also the National Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U30	Thank you very much, Mr Luigas. Does the honourable Minister of the Interior wish to participate in the negotiations? No, I don't. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U31	The next question is the question submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb and Kalev Kallo on 18 December last year on corruption crimes. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U32	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Is there more time in the round of the introduction to the inquiry?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U33	No, I can't now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U34	Please pay attention to the dates I'm calling now. On 28 June last year, a meeting of the City Council of Narva took place, where a new structure of the Narva authorities, which will be in force from 2 July, was decided in which the Municipal and Economic Administration of Narva did not have a utilities department. One department has fallen out of structure since 2 July. In anticipation of the changes made by the City Council of Narva, Acting Director of this office, Tamara Luigas, on 25 June (I note once again that all the decisions were ready, the Coalition meeting had taken place, the Coalition's decision to adopt these changes) fired the current Head of the U.S. Department and, on 27 June, issued an order to serve and appoint Riho Sillar as Head of the U.S. Department from 2 July 2012. He was appointed, which, on the basis of the decision of the Council, had been lost since 2 July, with a salary of EUR 1188 plus additional charges of a total of EUR 1485. Riho Sillar went on sick leave from July 5th and was released as a result of his dismissal only on 17 September. All this fun cost Narva, or rather, the inhabitants of Narva EUR 7606.82. In this context, the Narva City Chancellery submitted to the Office of the Police and Border Guard's Office's Office for Corruption Crimes to the Eastern Office a request to initiate criminal proceedings against the Acting Director, Luis, in order to clarify whether the activities described in the application qualify as criminal offences under § 201 (2) (3) of the Penal Code. A month later, the Bureau of Corruption Crimes sent a reply that revealed that criminal proceedings had not been opened. Imagine this situation. The Council shall adopt a decision. Knowing which decision will come, the acting director will take the person who needs to be made redundant by paying him a very large sum of money from the date on which this department ceases to exist. If it's not corruption, I don't know what corruption is! As the Minister of the Interior is responsible for this area, I will ask the Minister of the Interior, together with my colleagues, a few questions. I read one of them out loud: 'Accord to the situation where a high official takes a person to work, which goes off three days after the person has been recruited. Do you think this situation is legally correct? ' I'm here defending Narva's budget. I sincerely believe that the EUR 7206 spent can be recovered. I hope that the Minister, who has positioned himself as a fighter with corruption on several occasions, will support our request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U35	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. I would like to ask the honourable Minister for the Interior of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U36	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! There are four questions that have been put to you in this inquiry, which was now attempted to read out to you in detail, concerning a particular official. I understand he's a Narva City Government official. The questions are as follows: "Do you think that the conduct of which the retroactive decrees are drawn up, including a burden on the local government (or state) budget, is in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Estonia? Make an assessment of the situation in which a high - ranking official takes a person into employment that goes on lay-off three days after the person has been recruited. Do you think this situation is legally correct? 'There is also a reference to the practice of the Office for Corruption Crimes of the Central Criminal Police, where a decision has been made not to open criminal proceedings. Fourthly, the question is whether this person may be under special protection and how I comment on the rumor or the claim that this person could be under special protection and therefore has not been subject to criminal proceedings. As a general comment, I can say that legal assessments are usually made by a court in the Republic of Estonia. As far as the opening of criminal proceedings is concerned, in this case as far as I have looked at it, I can also give you a comprehensive overview of which authorities have made a decision not to start criminal proceedings, the criminal investigators, the central criminal police and the prosecutor's office, which fall within the scope of the Ministry of Justice's administration. I would simply say, in addition to the statements made by the honourable author, that the Eastern Office of the Corruption Crimes Bureau of the Central Criminal Police failed to open criminal proceedings in October 2012 on the grounds that there was no subjective aspect, or intent, to turn the city property entrusted to him, the official, into a third party. Narva City Chancellery then appealed this decision to the Viru District Prosecutor's Office because the decision was not accepted. Viru District Prosecutor's Office dismissed this complaint by order of 19 November 2012, finding that Mrs Luigas' activities may have the characteristics of disciplinary offences, but there is no basis for the initiation of criminal proceedings on the basis of § 199 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This did not agree with the Narva City Chancellery and the appeal was passed on to the Public Prosecutor's Office, the third instance where it was rejected at the end of last year. So it is not only the Office of the Office for the Corruption Crimes of the Central Criminal Police, but also several authorities in the State Prosecutor's Office, but criminal proceedings have not been opened. All other matters relating to the recovery of damage shall fall within the jurisdiction of the Court. It is decided by the judicial authorities of the Republic of Estonia. The competence of the Minister of Home Affairs does not allow for an assessment of such individual cases. That would not be correct. I can say, however, that this is the right of a local government unit to organise and manage local life independently. I don't know if you've used the opportunity to address Ida-Viru County Elder, for example, who has the right to supervise the legality of administrative acts of local government units in the county (this is due to § 85 of the Government of the Republic Act). In general, it is a matter of professional supervision; it is certainly also a matter of disciplinary supervision here. If you ask me questions and mention some high-ranking official who hires another official for a post that will be laid off three days after the person has been recruited, then, just by looking at it, it seems very strange. I completely agree with you. However, as far as the assessment is concerned, as I said, in the Republic of Estonia, they are given by the specific authorities that have been set up for this purpose. The rule of law is clearly a separation of powers. It follows from the independence and independence of these authorities that they decide whether or not to initiate criminal proceedings. In the Republic of Estonia, it is not Batyushka, to whom everyone turns if the decision of one administration or another is not satisfied. It is now a police decision, a decision of the district prosecutor's office and, finally, a decision of the state prosecutor's office, who has taken the view that criminal proceedings will not be initiated. If, as your citizen and as a Member, you feel that this is not the right decision, you have the right to feel that way. I'm sure this case seems very strange to me, as well as the description of the case. I will certainly support you if you are convinced that you want to collect this specific amount from the person you spoke about. You have the opportunity to turn to the court and apply for damages. This is a brief summary of the case. Thank you for the opportunity to talk about corruption more widely. I am happy to take this opportunity to talk about what was one of my clear priorities in 2012 as Minister of the Interior and the Government Coalition to fight corruption as one of the types of serious hidden crime. A few words about it. First of all, as you know, since 2004 the Republic of Estonia has put in place an anti-corruption strategy called 'A Honest State', which is now expected to follow a third step. One part of this is certainly actions against corruption involving municipalities. The strategy has a new agenda for adoption and development, with the main emphasis on municipalities, as well as on the private sector and the medical sector. When we talk about the Police and Border Guard Board, in 2012 the Central Criminal Police and two separate units were re-established: the Office for Corruption Crimes and the Office for the Detection of Crimes. The aim of both of them is precisely to fight serious covert crimes. We have seen corruption crime offices at the Police and Border Guard Board as a separate competence centre that coordinates and directs the services in the prefectures in order to investigate possible violations in 220 municipalities even better than before. In addition to the PBGB, the Department of the Defence Police is involved in the prosecution of corruption offences, whose investigative authority received a significant extension at the end of 2011. As you know, the research authority of the Defence Police Department has larger cities (Tallinn, Tartu, Narva, Pärnu, Kohtla-Järve and Jõhvi), in addition to the central apparatus of the state and several other public sector institutions. As I mentioned, the detection of the proceeds of crime is one of the key words, both as regards the possibility of confiscation and as regards the increased possibilities of confiscation, with the aim of trying precisely to reach the roots of crime. As a whole, last year was allocated to fight corruption and additional resources were also allocated this year to acquire technical resources and recruit new officials in the Bureau, again in order to strengthen the composition that is currently there and to try to increase competences so that more complex schemes can be detected where the state's capacity may not have been the greatest so far. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U37	Minister, there are questions for you. Kaia Iva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U38	Thank you. Corruption crimes are undoubtedly one of the most complex types of crime, precisely because they are hidden crimes, which makes their processing and taking evidence very difficult to prove at all. At the same time, these are very dangerous crimes, so it can be assumed that these crimes are being investigated by the best professionals in our country. But please explain what developments have taken place in your area of administration in relation to corruption crimes and any hidden crime. What were the main points last year and what are we going to do next year to eradicate this type of crime better?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U39	Thank you for your question. When we talk about money, an additional EUR 1.6 million was allocated to improve the criminal police's procedural capacity by 2012, EUR 315000 was allocated to acquire special resources for the criminal police, and EUR 220000 was allocated to improve the criminal revenue detection capacity. I think that a very important step is to restore the Central Criminal Police from 1 January 2012. We will continue to strengthen the Central Criminal Police this year. Its role is, above all, to be a clear guide, a central coordinator, a harmonisation of good practices and standards across the country, so that research units in the precinct approach serious hidden crime in a uniform manner, learn from the experiences we have and, of course, learn from the experiences of our neighbouring countries. As I said, the competence of the Defence Police in preventing corruption has been extended since November 2011. What exactly does that mean? This means that we have extended the powers of the Defence Police to investigate corruption in public entities, as well as in legal persons, whether public or public, where public funds and external financing are used. This is a significant increase in the competence of the Defence Police. Last year, the Defence Police also received additional money so that they could transfer this competence. There are quite a number of legal persons governed by public law or companies established by the State. We are talking about the biggest: Eesti Energia, the Port of Tallinn, several companies and foundations, where a large number of foreign resources are managed, such as Enterprise Estonia, State Forest Management Centre, etc. The aim is, of course, to continue this work in 2013. When we talk specifically about formations, for example, in the North Prefecture office, we employ four additional officials from the Crimes Unit, five additional officials to the Corruption Crimes Bureau. Additional resources are also intended to combat drug crime, as well as to increase the remuneration of officials, to hire additional staff in order to implement the priorities for combating serious covert crime. I can say that we are also paying more attention to what is happening in cyberspace. If you're asking about cybercrime, I'm saying it's too broad a question. Cybercrime is divided into different sub-sections, i.e. types of crime. When we talk about serious covert crime, there has been an increase in serious economic crime in cyberspace, particularly fraud. Take, for example, the very large economic crime detected at the end of 2011 in cyberspace, the keyword of which is the so-called Ghost Click in Estonia and within which 20 million euros of proceeds of crime have been seized. The damage was caused all over the world by infecting different information systems with different malware. All this was orchestrated from Estonia. This income came to Estonia in many ways. The fact that we were able to track down such crime is, of course, recognition for our investigators, including those who can understand what is happening in cyberspace. However, international cooperation also plays a very important role in this regard. We have very good cooperation with good partners from the United States as well as with other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U40	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You gave us a brief lesson, to whom it is not advisable to approach in certain situations. You mentioned a category like the Batyushkas. Of course, you could always translate when something is said in a foreign language. But I'll do it for you. In Russian, the word "batjuška" is used as a respectful, respectful address to the Orthodox priest. Even in slang, the Russian word has no other meaning. Did you want to insult the Orthodox Church in your speech, be it Constantinople or the Moscow Patriarchate, or do you, as a lawyer, use foreign language terms that you do not know the meaning of?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U42	Thank you for your question. This is your interpretation of the word used in the language of the people in different meanings. My point, which I passed on with my reference, is that there is no such authority in the Republic of Estonia (maybe in another cultural space it exists) who reviews the decisions made by competent, independent, independent and law-based authorities. In this case, decisions have been made by several and several authorities. You appeal to me by questioning the decision of corruption investigators not to initiate criminal proceedings, the decision of the district prosecutor not to initiate criminal proceedings and, ultimately, the decision of the state prosecutor not to initiate criminal proceedings. Fortunately, you do not have the opportunity to point out that all these institutions fall under the authority of a single minister. No, it doesn't! They belong to the administration of two ministers: corruption investigators are under the Ministry of the Interior, the prosecutor's office is under the Ministry of Justice. You, or your fellow thinkers, have been through the various institutions of Narva City Chancellery very correctly and have also received a legal assessment which, in my opinion, if you look at these arguments, is considerable. There is no higher authority, since the Minister cannot review the decisions not to initiate or initiate criminal proceedings and issue orders or command boards that must now be reviewed. Fortunately, there is no such thing in the Republic of Estonia. The Republic of Estonia is a rule of law, where each authority has its own competence, they act under the law and make decisions accordingly. Fortunately, we have such a country, in some other countries this may be different: somebody somewhere high up makes a decision, gives a clear chain of command that one or the other decision must be reviewed for one or the other, whether for direct or darker reasons. This is not the case in the Republic of Estonia. Of course, if you ask me whether there are problems with the implementation of one or another of the laws of the Republic of Estonia, whether the law is sufficiently legal, whether the law should be amended, whether the procedural steps to implement the law are justified, then we can always discuss it. We have also done so in this Chamber, and we will continue to do so. This is a perfectly normal, very welcome and sensible discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U43	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We realized from this long speech that the law is the first in Estonia and no one can arbitrarily regulate it. But perhaps you can remind me what was the name of the Minister of the Parts Government who turned to the police prefects with a proposal that the number of corruption-related matters not be less than a certain percentage? Who was he? Who was the evil spirit that tried to supernaturally regulate our laws and rock our legislative system? Do you remember that name?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U45	Thank you for this question. I have to admit, I can't even understand this question. What exactly do you mean? Which percentages, which prefects are you talking about? I am trying to capture the context you tried to convey with your question. You refer to the attempt in 2005 and 2004 to bring the investigation of corruption crimes to a new level in the Republic of Estonia and to do so by agreeing on the work volumes of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Prosecutor's Office and the police. You're trying to show it in the opposite light, because I think it's in your best interest. Sure, why not? Still a member of the opposition! But thank you for the opportunity to open up this subject a little more. In 2004, when I was the Minister of Justice, we contributed a great deal to the further investigation of corruption in the area of government of the Ministry of Justice. We built up the DA's office to do that. Unfortunately, the prosecutor's office alone is not enough to improve the detection and investigation of corruption in general; it also requires the police, who are the investigator. Our attempt was to agree on more concrete work volumes to contribute to the investigation of corruption. In 2004, I was shocked at how poor the investigation of corruption was, in particular, in the municipalities. This was, unfortunately, still quite a number of years, when your party was also in power, from 2005 to 2007. In the municipalities, things started to move in some form only from the summer of 2007, when the proposal of the IRL proposed that the Coalition Agreement put the investigation of corruption crimes committed in six major cities under the jurisdiction of the Defence Police. I have already mentioned these major cities: Tallinn, Tartu, Kohtla-Järve, Jõhvi, Narva and Pärnu. Then something actually started moving. Quite a number of very serious corruption investigations were initiated. For example, in 2008, the so-called grey cardinal of Narva was the case of Aleksandr Moisseyev. The comrade had become so arrogant that in 2008 he offered a police officer a bribe of 300 000 kroons in order to avoid some procedural steps in relation to a private limited company. He was able to bribe a police officer for $100,000 even when he was caught. This comrade had been operating in this city for years. However, in 2008 things started to move in quite a few other municipalities. I dare say that in 2010, when Marko Pomerants finally set up a separate corruption crime office at the Police and Border Guard Board (probably the investigation of corruption crimes committed in 220 municipalities was then and still falls within the remit of the Police and Border Guard Board), things began to improve in the remaining 220 municipalities. But there's still plenty of room for improvement. In 2013, too, we are taking a number of steps precisely to get even deeper in the study of this type of serious and hidden crime, even in those places where it has not been achieved so far. It is clear that nothing will happen here overnight. The results will be achieved through years of hard work. Of course, we must pay tribute to all the police and prosecutors who have been doing this work for the last eight or nine years. I think that the Estonian state has become much more transparent and stronger and has shown that it is also able to confront the more hidden schemes that have so far been left out of the attention of the public and research authorities. But now they can put the glass on them too.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U46	Andres Jalak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U47	Thank you. Dear Minister, One of the goals of crime is, as we know, profit. I have a question that seems to interest many: what is the criminal police's ability to detect proceeds now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U48	Thank you for your question. That's a very good question! When we talk about the fight against serious covert crime and that we want to track down organised crime, it must be taken into account that money is one of the main motives for organised crime. If you remember, already in 2006 we argued in this Chamber to expand the possibilities of confiscation of proceeds of crime in Estonia. The Republic of Estonia has also done so. We have a legal basis that can be considered quite exemplary in European terms and in comparison with other European countries. We have extended confiscation provisions, that is, the possibility of implementing the so-called reversed burden of proof through extended confiscation. It is possible to reach the proceeds of criminal offences which have been so-called transferred to third parties. These opportunities exist in the law. It has to be said that the implementation of this law has gone rather barely. I can say that since 2011, when we set up a separate crime detection unit in the Central Criminal Police, we have tripled these resources, the funds that are intended to detect and confiscate the proceeds of crime. The money has been tripled and concerns both the technical side and the staff. That's where we're moving on. There are currently 17 officials in Estonia who are directly involved in the detection of proceeds from crime. This triple has given me some pretty good results. In 2012, EUR 3.5 million of proceeds from crime were seized. However, I dare say that the financial volume is not essential here at the outset, but it is important to achieve a general attitude that all criminal cases where confiscation of proceeds of crime can be carried out do so. The number of cases increased significantly in 2012 compared to 2011. Investigators and prosecutors are developing an attitude that, not only are we talking about sanctions that are understandable for one crime or another, they are always thinking about taking away the proceeds from criminal activities, because this revenue is the most important motive for the criminal world to take one step or another at all. If we can target our point against this motive, or financial gain, I would argue that it will also have a very serious preventive effect. By doing so, we will prevent many and many crimes that are likely to be committed in the future, i.e. we will take away from the criminal world the feeling that the state is unable to confiscate the proceeds of crime because the state is weak. I think we're going to build up the capacity with which we're going to show the strength of the state. We show that we can also find the criminal proceeds that are hidden in many places. This capacity is far from satisfactory, but I have now described to you the assumptions that we have created. Resources are isolated, I think they're pretty good, capable people are in business, and from here we can only go positive. I hope that in the coming years, even in the near future, the results will significantly improve. Of course, the most important thing is that we give the criminal world a very strong signal of the strength of the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U49	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U50	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, It was very good to hear from your presentation that the Estonian police are fighting cybercrime very successfully. After all, we have developed well-known software solutions, and in this area we have invented many things for the benefit of people. It is a pleasure that our police officers are also able to detect crimes that misuse the software solutions created. The Ministry of the Interior and the Estonian police have many important things that need to be explored, among which the most important ones must be selected. What are the priorities of the Ministry of the Interior starting in the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U51	Thank you for your question. One serious priority has now been mentioned, it is the prevention of serious covert crime. It's the kind of thing that doesn't look like it. Drug crime doesn't stand out for everyone, either. Few people have had direct contact with it, but I believe that this is an area that needs to be taken very seriously. Last week we talked about drug addiction in Question Time. We talked about the fact that there are still a large number of injecting drug addicts and drug addicts in Estonia. All those crimes that actually don't leave a direct victim behind are under serious covert crime. These are the crimes that are precisely aimed at making a profit. Drug crime is a point of profit. Certainly, theft of the state and the crimes committed against the economic environment in cyberspace have also been done for the purpose of making a great asset gain. We have significantly improved the ability to fight them in the country and, above all, in the police, both at the Police and Border Guard Board and at the Defence Police Department. I can mention prevention as a very important priority. We've already talked about prevention today. But more generally, prevention also involves accident deaths, or unnatural deaths, which result in very many men and women losing their lives. How can we prevent these accidents from happening? This year we will significantly increase the amount of money that can improve society's awareness of why a fire starts, what to do in the event of a fire, how to prevent risks and dangers in our surroundings, and, for example, how to prevent our loved ones from going drinking. Statistics show a very drastic picture: about 40% of drowning deaths are caused precisely by people overestimating their abilities and going swimming in the wrong place, at the wrong time and in the wrong state, or under the influence of alcohol. All activities designed to reduce accidents in traffic are also an extremely important priority. We are pleased that in 2012 we were able to significantly improve the traffic culture in Estonia. I conclude that the number of injured, the number of road deaths, the number of road accidents resulting from injuries and the number of road accidents resulting from deaths have decreased. The issue of prevention must also concern drug addiction. We want to make a significant contribution to drug prevention this year. This means, in particular, actions aimed at minors. 15 to 16-year-olds still consume a lot of drugs in Estonia, not only drugs, but also alcohol. There is a great deal to be done here to raise awareness, once again, not only of the dangers and risks of one or the other step of minors themselves, but also of parents' awareness of it. It is extremely important to direct these preventive steps to target groups that are not in the Estonian state's information field, such as those who speak Russian and those who are not reached through ordinary media. We can call them a slightly more antisocial target group, among which, for example, there have been a lot of fire deaths at the beginning of this year. By presenting these priorities, I will get to you at the end of February when I talk about the Yearbook on Security Policy. This report is expected to take place in the third week of February. Then we can bring 2012 together thoroughly. But the priorities, in short, are: prevention policy, greater emphasis on reducing accidents, combating serious covert crime, definitely strengthening life-saving capabilities, supporting volunteering (which I believe are significant resources) and ensuring sustainable and well-thought-out internal security for the whole area of our governance. The administration of the Ministry of the Interior is extremely large, the taxpayer gives us considerable money. In my opinion, we have quite a lot to do to spend this money even more thoughtfully, focused and better targeted. All of this is designed to increase security in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U52	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U53	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I agree with you that Estonia is a rule of law, but that your right to prove in the judicial system, which you talked about a lot, requires three things: good nerves, big money to pay to the defender and, by the way, the state pays only half of what the state pays for, and we definitely have to go to the Supreme Court. But my question is simple and technical. The investigator shall decide whether or not to open criminal proceedings. How has control of the criminal prosecution system been organised, whether it exists in our country or does it not have the strength to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U54	Thank you for your question. As has already been said in this question, people have an opportunity to appeal. Criminal proceedings have been run by the Prosecutor's Office in the Republic of Estonia since 2004. I think it was a very important fundamental change that has justified itself: the prosecutor's office is situated in the area of the Ministry of Justice and the police are located in the area of the Ministry of the Interior. In particularly difficult matters, particularly in matters of priority for the state, the prosecutor's office has been involved from the outset, and I think this is extremely right. Supervision takes place in different instances, whether it is the prosecutor's office or the court. This is, of course, also done by quality control within the police, i.e. by assessing the work, ability and competence of those who work as investigators and criminal investigators. As for your comment on the Estonian judicial system, I think it is very positive that we have the possibility to appeal judgments to several institutions in Estonia. There is no denying that, in very difficult cases, it will take several and several years to obtain a final decision. In order to provide assistance to people both in court proceedings and in extra-judicial matters, there is a State Legal Aid Institute. Over the last eight years, and during that time, when I myself have been Minister of Justice, there have also been positive developments here: we have multiplied the money that is being channelled to state legal aid. In 2005, the possibility of obtaining state legal aid was created also in extra-judicial cases. This option has been in place for seven years. I think that it is precisely those who have been underinsured that have benefited from it that are not as financially viable as others. As far as I know, in 2013, the government and the state will take a step forward here again and the state's legal assistance will be further expanded. The money will be allocated to ensure not only state legal aid, but even higher quality legal aid through the Bar Association. In my opinion, the aim is, of course, to shorten legal proceedings, but on the other hand, it is important that a person also gets protection so that he or she has a high-quality and good lawyer or a good representative, depending on the case. I think we are moving towards a European rule of law. During these seven years, when there has been a significantly wider possibility of public legal assistance, thousands of people have received it. This has solved a number of problems that arise when legal aid is not of high quality and is not available.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U55	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U56	Thank you. Honourable Minister of the Interior! I will also ask, in the context of this inquiry, about the problem that occurred at the Koidula border crossing point last year. The newspaper Postimees and also the South Lehe reported that the police and Border Guard Board's supervision found that workers in the waiting area of the Koidula border crossing point had broken order. This disorder consisted in the fact that the employees of Paldiski Harbours AS, the manager of the waiting area, allowed certain cars to cross the border more frequently than allowed. This violation has been repeated. For what purpose this border crossing took place, it was not controlled by the Police and Border Guard Board. All the results were communicated to the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior had to take decisions and decide on sanctions. What has become of it, and were there any corruption-related violations?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U57	Thank you for your question. The staff of the Koidula border inspection post waiting area were subject to official surveillance. When checking log files, it was found that in May 2012 there were corrections to the data in 40 cases, which means that irregularities were detected during the monitoring exercise. As far as I know, sanctions under the management contract have also been applied to the specific subject of Paldiski Sadamate AS. Sanctions for infringements by workers are possible under the contract and, as far as I know, they have been implemented, but I can clarify that. The Police and Border Guard Board did not address the Ministry of Internal Affairs until late autumn. So surveillance has taken place and violations have been detected. These steps have already been taken, as I recall, but I can still clarify that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U58	Dear Minister, Thank you for answering the questions. I would like to thank my fellow Members for their good questions. Let's open the negotiations. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U59	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Strangely enough, sometimes this is what happens yesterday, I just watched some of the old English series entitled 'Yes, Mr. Minister'. I hope you've seen it. There is a minister (our esteemed Minister of the Interior does not reach his level) who has an advisor, Sir Humphrey, who can freely drown any problem in words and make a fool of a random person with his long story, and he will never give a concrete answer. You know, this is the fourth Riigikogu that I belong to. I've heard hundreds of answers to questions. I'm asking you to fix it! This, however, is the first time the minister came out, but he did not answer any questions. There were only four questions, but he didn't answer anything. I think it's typical. Four years ago, the minister wrote in an article about Andrus Ansip as a man with a leninistic way of thinking, perhaps he was not a minister. That's a good line. Now he's in the government with this leninistic way of thinking, and they fit in very well with each other. I think that the greatest pleasure the press could have, even tomorrow, would be to take out today's verbatim, to look at what the minister replied to about the case of 2005, when the motion of distrust went through and the Parts government fell, and to compare what was said at the time in the Riigikogu about what it did. It would be fantastic to compare one with another. We were at the birth of another myth today. Of course, they're already huge. Today a myth of an honest fighter with corruption was born, who at the time was not understood by any human, not even by the coalition reform party. The only honest person in Estonia who can't afford it. Only in a strange way does it turn out: if his party representatives sell residence permits to Russian bandits, he will not see this, but if there is a purely verbal accusation against the secretary-general of a competing party, he will send in 30 kapo employees who will spend all night looking for what they are not aware of. I would like to express my special thanks to my fellow Members from the IRL Group. It was a great show, you did a great job, you fed the previously prepared questions to read the prepared text. Now, let me get to the point. In fact, the Minister did not answer any of the questions raised in the inquiry. Silence is consent. Look at the questions there, and take into account that the minister answered every question with his silence, yes. He can't explain anything. I will once again describe this absurd situation. On 28 June, the Council adopted a decision to close one department in the structure of the city authorities on 2 July. The day before that, the Acting Director recruited a person to do so from the same day, 2 July, when this department was shut down, knowing that this position would be lost on the same day. The man who was hired was on sick leave the next working day. With only one signature, Madame I don't know if she's a friend, a relative or more than EUR 7 000 from the city's budget. The minister was spinning around like a fish in a pan. However, it was the DA's office and the City Chancellery who had not yet turned to the court. We've turned to court, and we're going as far away from this as we need to. We were interested in your attitude towards corruption: corruption is what others do, corruption is not what you personally do. I can give you some examples of excellent activity. When was the last time that presidential election was? In 2009, a man named Hanson was quietly arrested, who dealt with children's problems at the IRL, child welfare. No journalist was about to testify when he was captured, and for six months no one knew where this faithful member of the IRL was. Although everyone inside the party knew that. It was necessary to keep quiet. There were some elections, then the other elections and only after Hanson could not influence the outcome of the IRL elections, the public was informed of where and what. Isn't that corruption? What else would you call corruption? Of course, this idiotic story about Moisseyev, who was put under pressure for three years and was extorted. He's only guilty of watching life go around, he didn't realize it was just a imitation. All this time repeating it, excuse me, Minister, is ridiculous! Think of something else for next time. But I think the next ten Mondays will have enough time to talk to you about kings and cabbages in this room or how O.Henry has it there. Everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U60	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Allik! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to pay tribute to my colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, who has taken up the fight against possible corruption in the City of Narva. So far, a number of law enforcement authorities have dealt with this mixed success. If, after all, the city's master, who Mr Stalnukhin thinks he is, takes up the fight against corruption himself, then we can soon hope for success. Unfortunately, as often happens, the first calf went behind the fence, which has just been explained by the esteemed Minister of the Interior. Mr Stalnukhin began to expose Tamara Luiga, who, working as director of the City Property and Economics Department of Narva City Government, became known in Narva as the revealer of corruption-like transactions and also as the giver of such evidence. But you don't want to be intimidated by it. That's what happens when people start looking for it where it's white, not in dark places. The saying says it's better late than never. I would like to wish Mr Stalnukhin confidence in what he needs to do; perhaps the real corruption will be brought to light. Who is more interested in the matter, I say that the situation in Narva, and also the cases that were discussed today, is described by today's Äripäev under the heading 'Political Foundation'. However, I came before you in connection with the fact that Mr Riho Sillar, who was accused of being recruited by Mr Stalnukhin of Mrs Luigast, turned to him on 12 December last year, so a month and a half ago, with a letter from the President of the Riigikogu, Ene Ergma, but has not received any reply to this until today. Mr Stalnukhin spoke, performing in the speaker's chair of the Riigikogu on 10 December, about how lies are being lied to in Narva, about the crooks giving each other money, in view of Mrs Luiga and Mr Sillar, whom she also named by name. Mr. Sillar, who has worked for 13 years as a lawyer and legal adviser in Jõhvi and the municipality, felt touched by it and wrote to the President of the Riigikogu, among other things: 'What is going on? In the Republic of Estonia, how is it possible for a member of the Riigikogu to go to the highest and most authoritative speech chair in the country and completely unscrupulously pour someone over it with uncontrolled and unproven dirt? Theoretically, this is an opportunity for the 101 nations. What can I do to protect myself in this situation? Turns out nothing. Who would allow me to say something in my defense from the same chair? It is easy to suggest that you go to court, but this, as strange as it may be, is not an adequate measure. There is a big difference between being accused in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, in front of the entire Estonian people, live on television or somewhere in the silence of the courtroom. My name has been called a villain and a villain in the legislative order. What does that make me look like? A temple for life! There are good and unwritten practices in society that every normal person must adhere to without compulsion. The rules are laid down in all types of procedural laws, still with the aim of ensuring that each person can make counter-arguments and defend himself. The press, as a rule, avoids the publication of unilateral positions without listening to the views of the other party, the criminal investigation and the court. However, the Chair of the Riigikogu, as it turns out, has become a voice tube from which you can call off everything that spit brings to your mouth, including uncontrolled and unproven information. However, individuals do not have the ability to defend themselves against such a voice tube. How can we avoid such behavior becoming a rule? You can compromise in this way, if you don't say, to destroy anyone and anything. Just climb into the chair and talk about anything and what, and if you evaluate it, the goal has been achieved. In the Riigikogu, they said you were like this and that, so that's it. How and where can the affected person disprove it? How and where can I object? Man is broken, unprotected. But who cares because the performer has already achieved his goal? I hope you understand the seriousness of the situation described. I continue to believe in the Riigikogu, as well as in the fact that there are still persons in their right mind who respect a person's constitutional rights. Unfortunately, there are exceptions. How does the Board of the Riigikogu intend to react to this situation? What can you recommend for someone in a similar situation to me? ' As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, here is a question for all of us. This is not just about Mr Stalnukhin and Mr Sillar. It is, of course, very regrettable that the President of the Riigikogu has not responded to this letter. I believe that he, as the head of the institution, is also subject to the rules that citizens' statements must be answered. But, of course, we know that according to § 18 (1) of the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu, a member of the Riigikogu bears no legal responsibility for political statements in the Riigikogu or its bodies. So how do you do it? There can't be legal responsibility, but there should be some moral responsibility. I think that this is a matter of thought for those colleagues who, under the leadership of Mrs Kallas, are working on developing a code of ethics for a member of the Riigikogu. I hope that such cases will be dealt with in the code. If a committee of ethics is set up, perhaps it would be appropriate for all citizens whose name has been mentioned in the Riigikogu Chair to have the right to address it. Now we are in front of a really strange case where there is one place in the Republic of Estonia where I am now standing, where you can really say anything about anyone. But such a situation certainly does not benefit the already bad reputation of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U62	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U63	Dear colleagues, after my hammer strike, please register with those members of the Riigikogu who wish to speak in a free microphone! Inara Luigas, I beg you to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U64	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the time to answer the question is limited, I couldn't talk about everything and I want to add a little more. The Minister of the Interior did not say everything. In fact, he did not touch on the Chancellor of Justice's proposal that the infringements should be eliminated in order to organise the entry of vehicles to the road border crossing point. The Chancellor of Justice has dealt with this issue and has reached the following position after the procedure. In order to organise the entry of vehicles to the road border crossing point at Luhamaa and Koidula border crossing points, § 83 (4) of the State Border Act is violated, according to which no charge is charged for the use of a waiting area for border crossings if the vehicle is located in a waiting area for border crossings, but does not actually use the waiting area service for border crossings and is directed to the border crossing point immediately for border crossings. The Chancellor of Justice has made the following proposals and made his recommendations: First, stop charging drivers of all categories of vehicles for the use of a waiting area at the border crossing point of Koidula and Luhamaa if the following conditions are met: the vehicle has been placed in a queue in the electronic border reservation environment and has been paid the fee provided for in § 83 (1) of the State Border Act and the only service provided by the operator of the waiting area is to point the vehicle at the border crossing point and to do so the necessary actions. Secondly, the Chancellor of Justice pointed out that if the inspection of the border inspection post in Narva reveals that the Narva border crossing areas are in breach of the State Border Act in the same way as the border inspection post in Koidula and Luhamaa, this offence must also be brought to an end when organising the entry of vehicles to the Narva road border crossing point. The Chancellor of Justice also said that administrative contracts for the management of waiting areas and, where appropriate, the national border law should be supplemented by regulations which ensure that the remuneration for the use of the waiting area is charged only to drivers who, when arriving at the border, use not only a border crossing point but also another waiting area service. The Chancellor of Justice added that it is essential to analyse the justification of these costs. He was of the opinion that if a vehicle is aimed at a waiting area for border crossings but does not actually use a waiting area and is immediately sent to a border crossing point, no charge should be charged for the use of the waiting area for border crossings. He also said that this kind of action that is currently taking place at the national border is a violation of the law. In his proposal, he asked the Minister for the Interior to reply to him by 21 May 2012. Since the Minister of the Interior did not touch on these proposals in half a word, nor did he point out what the Minister of the Interior has done to stop cassing the waiting allowance, I think it is entirely justified to make the following inquiry to the Chancellor of Justice to find out what the Minister of the Interior has responded to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U65	Thank you. I'm asking for the Riigikogu's speech chair, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U66	Ladies and gentlemen, The free microphone of the Riigikogu provides an excellent opportunity to express an opinion on topical issues. In recent days, and especially today, there has been a serious debate on how Estonia should reform its tax principles. The President of the IRL has just made his contribution here, who said that the income tax-free minimum should be increased by next year. The Centre Party will definitely support this. I looked at the interest in the past, what happened to the income tax-free minimum. In fact, in the last five years, the tax-free minimum has not been raised at all. The last decision was made in 2007, after which the Centre Party remained known to the opposition, but this decision was made and the income tax-free minimum was raised from EUR 1534 per year to EUR 1728 per year. This means an additional tax exemption of EUR 194. In the five years preceding that, from 2003 to 2008, the tax-free minimum was raised from EUR 767 to EUR 1728. Nearly less than EUR 1000 per year for five years. For the last five years, when the coalition of the IRL and Reform Party has been edited by the government, the tax-free minimum has been frozen. At the same time, VAT and excise duties have been significantly increased over these five years. These taxes have increased the tax burden in Estonia, especially for people on low and medium incomes. These people have carried this burden bravely. But now, as Estonia tends to be the country with the fastest price increase in the euro zone for the second year in a row, they need to ease the tax burden. That is why the Centre Party came up with its proposal: instead of continuing the Reform Party's policy of reducing income tax by 1%, the same amount could increase the tax-free minimum. Our proposal provides that the tax-free minimum per year would be EUR 2148 instead of the current EUR 1728. What does that mean? This means that all people who earn taxable income would win EUR 88.2 per year, while a 1% reduction in income tax would, for example, benefit a minimum wage of just EUR 19 per year, while a person who receives EUR 3500 would gain EUR 385 per year. The difference is tenfold. In addition, those pensioners who are currently at risk of having to pay their pension growth as income tax would also be directly affected by the tax-free minimum. If there is nothing to be gained from a reduction in the tax percentage from 21% to 20% for pensioners not working, the increase in the tax-free minimum would also benefit pensioners and all those with a monthly salary of less than EUR 900. They would win relatively more if they won a percentage reduction. That is why this bill was handed over today. I am pleased to see that the Social Democrats are in favour of the same idea and that today the IRL has said that it supports it and is no longer making fun of raising the tax-free minimum. No other thing can be said about Tõnis Palats that the tax-free minimum could be raised to EUR 5 000. It shows that either it does not know how much people in Estonia are getting paid, or it does not care that local governments have become the only means of carrying out very many tasks. I believe this bill will come true. If it is possible to put it into effect sooner than in 2015, we will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U67	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U68	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I remembered last Monday, when I tried to make a brief summary of the confusion and, in some cases, the hobbies that took place last year in the fields managed by Minister Juhan Parts' ministry. The Väo traffic hub was designed on the basis of the interests of the fuel company and using the fingertips in such a way that if it were built according to this project, it would be unusable or at least dangerous from the point of view of traffic. The consequence is that the project begins again and the construction of a much needed traffic junction moves forward for several years. In answering Äripäev's questions, the Minister stated: "It's quite a good lesson for the Road Administration. ' But I ask the Minister? Looks like the Minister sees no responsibility on his own. We all remember the great advertising campaign that Minister Juhan Parts promised last summer to close the profits of renewable energy companies and to significantly reduce the renewable energy fee in our electricity bills as early as 1 January 2013. It has become clear today that the Minister's promise did not allow the officials of his department to put the draft law into a law acceptable to the parties. Leaving aside the popularity of the order of cackling and laying, I would like to ask whether it is not again a matter of not calling out plans that cannot be carried out. Due to the lack of time, it is not possible to dwell here on the Estonian Air epopopoca, where the minister once again pretends that he does not know anything; everything has been the decisions of the Council. There are certainly members of the board of state companies in this Chamber who know that the chairman of the supervisory board is still consulting the general meeting on important matters. I had to do it in my time. The year hasn't even started right yet, but there are already new clouds in the sky. Last week it became clear that courts are ahead and that there is a possibility that a fine of EUR 5 000 will have to be paid every day, because the electricity and gas supply part of the Internal Market Directive is still outstanding. I happened to be listening to an interview by a ministry official on the radio, which was briefly summarised as follows. Question: what is the violation? Answer: I don't know. Question: When will it be found? Answer: I don't know, I guess when the action is brought. Question: when will the action be brought? Answer: perhaps in a few months. And so on. Oh, my God! Ministry officials are involved in all kinds of working groups, in Brussels the whole building is full of Estonian officials, we have high officials in the European Commission, but we are saying that we will wait for the action and then we will look at it. Does anyone else think this Ministry is run? It was an accident for me to have a conversation with a high-ranking public official who thought that the consumer protection part of the directive had not been transposed. Having seen the actions of our government so far, where the implementation of all the Brussels directives seeks to be more religious than the pope of Rome, but the benefits of consumer protection are not in any way appreciated, this opinion may also be true. In the light of the above, it seemed particularly cynical when Minister Juhan Parts, answering the question of my colleague Aivar Riisalu in this Chamber, announced that the administration was inexpensive and that he could do it perfectly. In my opinion, the idea expressed in Äripäev that we are making Juhan two Jukus must be accepted. In time, it was probably a mistake to combine two major administrative areas, the economy and transport. In order to move on, mistakes have to be corrected. Because of the inability to manage the administration, much more taxpayers' money will fly to the wind than would be spent on two ministries that are normally managed. If, on the other hand, they are convinced that the administration of the Ministry of General Assembly is normal for the administration, then a person should be found who will lead it and rid Juhan Parts of the burden he is overwhelming.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U69	Thank you. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U70	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to appear in a free microphone, but the strange accusations made here by Mr Allik simply forced me to come here. I'm not gonna make anything up. I'm gonna tell you the facts. On 28 June 2012, a meeting of the City Council of Narva took place. That's a fact. At this meeting, the decision was taken to change the structure of the city administration. That's a fact. There is a regulation to that effect. One department will be removed from the structure. It's a fact, it's not fiction. Acting Director of the City Property and Economics Board, Tamara Luis, knew the agenda of the council, at least a week before the council meeting took place. In fact, he knew several months in advance because the city government prepared this question. He was aware that this issue would be on the agenda. That's a fact. He knew, in fact, that we were announcing publicly what we support and what we do not support, that the coalition supported the draft structural lay-off. On 25 June, two days before the council meeting, he fired retroactively the acting Head of the then U.S. Department. There is a paper with a number, date, text and signature on it. Two days later, on 27 June, he issued an order. This is also a fact, there is a paper with date, number, text and signature. On the basis of this paper, he hired Riho Sillar. Think for yourself: why take a person into a position where almost one and a half thousand euros per month are paid when the same day as the person has to start work, this place will be laid off? The gentleman went straight to the sick list, came back in mid-September and got a clean pocket of EUR 7206, plus social tax and unemployment insurance, which was paid by the city, amounting to EUR 2377. In total, two of Mrs Luigas' decrees cost the city EUR 9600, paid to a person who did not work for one day in the post where she was recruited. If Mr. Allik were in the hall, I would ask him to explain what he is actually accusing me of. Are we done with freedom of speech? Can I quote the documents of Narva City Council or any council in this hall? Can I not tell you about the decisions taken in one city hall or another? I would very much like to hear the answer. The desire to protect their people is noble, but it is not always necessary to protect them, for sometimes the things they do are far from nobleness. The city got cold for EUR 9600 and didn't get anything in return. Who rejects even one word of what I said? I'd like an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U71	Thank you. I ask Viktor Vassilyev of the Riigikogu speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U72	Mr President! Today, the Association of Doctors and the Professional Association of Health Care Professionals published a press release that the agreement on the future of health care in Estonia, which has been under strain for a long time and was initiated under the leadership of former Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur, the Association of Doctors and the Professional Association of Health Workers, as well as the Association of Nurses and the Association of Midwives, will not be signed. It should be recalled that Hanno Pevkur initiated this so-called round table, where there were 22 parties, in order to channel the madness of doctors during the strike into a working group, hoping that it might somehow die out there. The document prepared as a result of the work of this working group is quite round, there are no specific development prospects. It begins by keeping healthcare funding at the same level as it is today. In terms of GDP, we are the last in line, only Romania is behind us. If the day after tomorrow, under the leadership of the new Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, there will be a solemn signing of the agreement in the White Hall of Toompea Castle, where TV channels and other media will probably be present, then the medical staff representatives will not be there to sign the document. What does that mean? This means that it was agreed that in future health care will be subject to agreements without staff. That's great! Therefore, our future health care system is one where patients, the Ministry and the Health Insurance Fund are certain to exist, but the staff is not. Very good! So when a person gets sick, he goes to the health fund and says he has a cough and a cold. The Health Insurance Fund checks out that cough and colds cost so much or so, pays money to the party and says to go abroad, find Vello the pendulum man or someone else, or buy a bottle of vodka in the store, in other words, do what they want. This is the future of our health care. There you go! Good luck to you all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-28_U73	Thank you. There's no more calls. The free microphone is finished. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 5.13 p.m.
