ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 11th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 13 members of the Riigikogu, I present an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. This is about new winds in Estonian foreign policy, more specifically about the line "one lady" that has already become infamous. Although this statement was a great outrage in the Estonian public and in the media, the Prime Minister himself has been astonishingly indignant in commenting on it, as has the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who spoke here in February about value-based foreign policy and the primacy of human rights in all aspects of foreign policy, including foreign economic policy, has been quite a saying in commenting on the Prime Minister's statement. We think it is reasonable for the Prime Minister to have the opportunity to explain what has been said before the Members of Parliament, and that is why we are asking him five questions. First of all, do you think that your saying 'one lady', quoted in the Ukrainian media, who should not be an obstacle to relations between Ukraine and Estonia and between Ukraine and the European Union, is in line with the principles of value-based foreign policy? ' Second: 'How do you assess the effectiveness of your visit for Estonian entrepreneurs with business interests in Ukraine, including your party recently supported by EUR 50000 for Hillar Teder? " Third: Did and to what extent did your statements differing from the prevailing approach of the European Union help the Ukrainian authorities to promote the business interests of the companies that sent you in Ukraine? ' Fourth: 'Was the foreign minister Urmas Paet following the principle of the primacy of values and human rights in Estonia's foreign economic policy during the Ukrainian visit to the Riigikogu? ' And the fifth forward-looking question, although it is from the past: since there have been entrepreneurs among the major supporters of political parties in the government coalition who have had business interests in Belarus, as Mr Randper has stated, how far is the Prime Minister prepared to go in the new doctrine? Can the members of the Cabinet be expected in the future to make statements about Belarus that differ significantly from the European Union's policies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U3	Thank you! I have accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau. If it complies with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I will forward it to the addressee immediately. It turns out there are no messages today, except that spring is still coming. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19. Ladies and gentlemen, now a little detail on the agenda. Today's second item is the second reading of the draft Decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Republic of Cyprus' presented by the Government of the Republic and the presentation is made by Sven Sester, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Private Schools Act initiated by the Committee on Culture. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? Please, as representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Evgeny Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The position of the Social Democratic Party Group on this draft has not changed. As we have noted, one of the motives for initiating the draft is the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice to the Riigikogu. In our opinion, the Chancellor of Justice has been drawn into an ugly day-to-day struggle between the Government of the Republic and the city of Tallinn on this issue. The root cause of this fight, however, is the question of granting an exception to the language of instruction in this Chamber yesterday to upper secondary schools which have applied for it on the basis of law and for pedagogical reasons. The inflexible and politically motivated refusal led to the decision of the local government to take the path of establishing a municipal private school. As we have said, the Social Democrats do not in any way approve of the forced move whereby the exception provided for in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is implemented through another law, that is, through the Private School Act. A responsible government should review its decisions on exceptions to this move, rather than using its parliamentary majority to simply do away with the local authorities. The Social Democrats call on both the Riigikogu and the government once again to seek substantive and comprehensive solutions to the problem of Russian-language education, which would ensure both good knowledge of the subject and the knowledge of the Estonian language and enable young Russian-speaking people to contribute fully to Estonian society. This draft obviously does not offer such a comprehensive solution, and we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U6	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote on the bill. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Private School Act, which was initiated by the Committee on Culture, 343. Please vote! 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 31 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U7	We will begin the second reading of the draft decree of the Riigikogu, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, 'Accepting the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Republic of Cyprus'. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Sester, from the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you an overview of the draft decision, which is number 419. This is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled 'Accepting a draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Republic of Cyprus'. In accordance with § 5 (1) of the Act on the ratification and implementation of the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism adopted by the Riigikogu on 15 September 2012, the representative of the Republic of Estonia needs a prior decision of the Riigikogu to participate in the vote on the draft memorandum. Cyprus submitted a request for financial assistance to the euro area on 25 June 2012. Thereafter, negotiations with Cyprus on the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the IMF, or the so-called troika, started in order to agree more precisely on the aid programme. The memorandum on specific economic policy conditions is the main underlying document of the Cyprus aid programme. The main objective of the aid programme is to restore confidence in the banking sector in Cyprus, continue fiscal consolidation and implement structural reforms. The assistance programme will amount to EUR 10 billion, including EUR 9 billion by the European Stability Mechanism and EUR 1 billion by the IMF. The duration of the assistance programme shall be three years and the final date for the use of the financial assistance shall be 31 March 2016. The first reading of draft 419 took place on April 17th, or yesterday. The deadline for amendments was 17 April at 5.19 p.m. As no amendments were tabled by then, no further discussion was held in the Commission. The decisions on the second reading of the bill were taken at the extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 17 April. The committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the second reading of the draft be terminated and that the draft be put to the final vote. There were 5 Commission members in favour of the decision, 1 against and no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U9	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. Now, please, questions! Let's start with my colleague Lauri Laas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U10	Honourable waitress! Here's the question. If the Riigikogu decides today that we will not support this bill, then what happens next? Will Cyprus be supported without Estonia's participation, i.e. against Estonia's will, or only with Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U11	When we dealt with the draft European Stability Mechanism last year, this issue was also on the agenda. In accordance with the provisions relating to the ESM, it is possible to adopt a decision by a certain majority even if some States are against a specific decision. It was a so-called 85% law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U12	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U13	Indeed, on 30 August last year, this ESM rulebook was discussed. Does this actually mean that if Estonia were the only country participating in the ESM who says no, we would still be participating in this aid package against the will of our own parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U14	These questions are motivated by the decision taken last year. We had a pretty good debate back then. I do not have the entire agreement at hand here, but I remind you from memory that it stipulated that if there are fewer than 15% of those who are opposed, the country that needs help will still receive support. For those countries which, for some reason, have been excluded, there are further procedures that are set out in the MoU.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U15	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U16	Dear waitress, When the ESM was set up, the waitresses claimed that it was a very useful financial investment for the Estonian state and that we would earn from it. Yesterday, Mr. Minister's response revealed that we are earning nothing. This money goes back to Greece and probably to Cyprus. Why is the state so different from its investments? For example, Estonian Air is granted a loan of 15%, while Cyprus and Greece are granted a loan free of charge.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U17	Yesterday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, this issue was not raised. The opposition representatives showed little interest in the process of processing this draft and did not raise any questions at all. One of the five opposition representatives was present and he did not raise this issue either. So this questioning is not appropriate at the moment. Estonian Air has nothing to do with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U18	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U19	I understand if it's urgent, he'll be quick. Do you, my good colleague, have any information that countries have already supported this memorandum?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U20	That's a good question! I do not have this information, but I can tell the House that it has been agreed that the Member States will take their decision in the period 15 to 18. April. According to this timetable, depending on their internal procedures, the participants will have to make a decision on the part of Parliament, some will have to make a decision on the level of government. Whether we're the last or the first one today, I can't tell you. We're probably not the first, it's April 18th. The countries that will take the decision today are probably among the latter.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U21	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U22	Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As the only representative of the opposition who was present yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I would like to ask about the possibility of proposing amendments. As we can see, the draft decision consists of a five-line content. If the Estonian Parliament had a wish, would it be able to include this decision in the preamble, where we reaffirm some principles? The debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs revealed that there is also a rather sceptical prospect of Cyprus fulfilling 100% of its commitments in the government union.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U23	I'll start with what you finished with. I assure the House that there has not been a debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs where the opinion that Cyprus is barely paying back anything would have remained to prevail. It's Kadri Samson's current interpretation, and I'm sure I'll disprove it. Now for the first part of your question. A good colleague, Eiki Nestor, has said that a member of the Riigikogu can make all kinds of proposals, no matter what comes to his mind. It is a matter of course whether these proposals are acceptable in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act and whether we can vote on them, but whether or not we can take away the right to propose any amendment of any section in any of the wordings will not be able to have anyone from you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U24	Please, Mr Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U25	Good waitress! As a coalition politician, I have to vote in favour of this bill, but it's a little difficult in the same soul. When you start thinking about how Cyprus hasn't been able to manage its finances at all lately, to give a tone, for example, to the banks' large loan payments to politicians, etc., what can you say to cheer up?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U26	Looks like yesterday, when the Minister of Finance was on the remote, you didn't need that kind of refreshment, you had this need overnight. But it's okay! You could say that. Those countries that have survived beyond their means of action, why have they come to such problems that it is necessary to ask for help from Europe? The point is that their earlier fiscal and financial policy decisions have not been sustainable. Most of these countries are most likely to have had budget imbalances, credit burden has steadily increased, they have survived beyond their capabilities. Now that requests for help have been made to Europe, we should base our decisions on how these countries in need intend to overcome their problems. I would like to remind you that last year, journalists even asked during the Greek procedure whether the European Union had not thought that Greece could pawn some of its islands, some of its real estate or something that was State-owned as collateral for this loan. For Europe, however, only the reforms that the country is doing can be a guarantee. I must say here that the decisions that Ireland, Portugal, Greece and now Cyprus need to take to increase their revenues and reduce their costs are not easy decisions. They have to decide which real estate to sell, which companies to privatise, and also make tax policy decisions. I think it is actually our guarantee that if we are in this European family with Cyprus, too, we will share the values that exist in the European Union. If a country has taken its financial policy decisions to a situation where it is very difficult, then it will be assisted by advice and force. In my opinion, the bilateral agreement that we have on the table should help Cyprus back on track, if you could say so. If you are also studying the MOU design, you will see that by 2015 the economy should turn to growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U27	Please, Mr Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U28	Good performer! Did the Cypriot Support Group of the Riigikogu actively participate in the discussions on this draft and help with its strength and advice?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U29	The Cypriot Support Group has not carried out any proactive action. At least they have not forwarded any proposals individually to the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U30	Please, Mr Laas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U31	Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Does the loan to Cyprus also generate interest income? And if he does, will it be transferred back to him as it is to Greece? If so, who will ultimately cover the costs of servicing the loan?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U32	You had several questions: Does the loan generate interest income and, if so, what will be done with this revenue in the future? Answer to the first question: Yes, it earns interest. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance spoke about this in a relatively long and thorough manner in this panel, giving an overview of the prerequisites for the functioning of the European Stability Mechanism, how it works. As the loan is being granted, the ESM itself raises money on the market. Let me remind you that we're going to be participating in the ESM a little less than 0.2% of the total of 0.186%, to be exact. To this extent, we guarantee those loans that the ESM acquires on the market. Once again, I come back to why such a financial scheme is at all and when the ESM will actually start assisting the Member State once the remaining Members have given their consent. These are situations where the troubled country no longer receives money from the markets. Then the ESM comes into play. In real life, this means that the ESM borrows money from the financial markets, it receives it relatively cheaply because of its high rating, and this loan is guaranteed by other European countries. The ESM transfers this loan to a troubled country, in this case Cyprus. It is also known how many basis points the loan will be granted. In this case, I guess, if I'm not mistaken, the fee is 50 extra bonus points for each payout. So it's a deal, it's a market fund and it's a transfer to a troubled country that doesn't get the money out of the market. This is the first part of the answer. Secondly, what about the interest that the ESM earns from this loan? Until then, we have no information on whether these amounts should be written off, paid back or done something third. The general principle of the ESM, as the Minister of Finance said, is not a profit-oriented activity in real life. The main objective is to ensure stability in Europe. This is confirmed by the name of the Fund: the European Stability Mechanism.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U33	Please, Mr Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U34	Thanks! Am I correct in understanding your throbbing optimism that you are one hundred percent sure that Cyprus and the other relatively lazy and sloppy countries in the south will fulfill all the commitments they have made? Just assure me that I don't have to push the red button!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U35	I don't get optimism. Looking at the problems of a number of European countries, including countries that have already received financial support through the EFSF or the ESM, plus countries that have been speculated that their financial situation is not good, I really do not offer optimism. I'd rather look at them with concern. It seems that many of the "old European countries" have not made the smartest decisions about monetary policy in general. This has led to a situation where the European Union's average level of debt is already 80 to 90%. That's the mean. The Estonian figure is about 12%. No, I certainly don't want optimism. Now the other part of the question: will the money come back? This question was also raised in the proceedings on the draft of the ESM last year. I'd say no one can say for sure that we're gonna get our money back or that we're gonna lose our money. But when we talk about probability, the probability of this money disappearing is very low. What gives you reason to say that? Gives the fact that money is not paid out at the same time after the decision has been taken, but on a quarterly basis. The money will be provided according to what is being done and the Troika will be constantly monitored, whether the problem countries ♪ in this case, Cyprus, as well as the other beneficiary countries will fulfil their promises to make the economic and political decisions they have promised to make. Will these countries privatise whether they will carry out the promises they have made? This is the basis for the next cash injections. All such measures reduce the likelihood that our money will be lost. I think that's the correct answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U36	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U37	Dear waitress, The Estonian people have contributed to the ESM, or rather they will contribute 150 million euros of their money by the end of this year. This is about 2.2 billion kroons, and I think that today you too are probably of the opinion that this is not a good financial investment, but a monetary gift from the Estonian people to Greece and Cyprus.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U38	It was not a question, it was an opinion, but I am also trying to answer it. First of all, you were a little inaccurate. You were imprecise precisely because by the end of this year, Estonia will contribute 150 million euros in share capital contributions to the ESM based on its participation. In fact, this will happen next year, with 148 commas of something, but the order of magnitude is really 150 million. By the end of this year, we'll have four-fifths paid off. I can't comment on the rest, it was just your opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U39	Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U40	Dear waitress, Yesterday, I took a rather keen look at the debate of the Finnish Parliament on the same issue, the Cyprus Memorandum. And unsubstantiatedly temperamental was this conversation, whose central stormhouses were, on the one hand, the Prime Minister of Finland and, on the other hand, the Chairman of the Indigenous Party. The Prime Minister confirmed that if Finland did not support this memorandum, it would be extremely high-risk to the euro area as a whole, including the monetary policy of Finland. Does our committee share this view, or do you consider it a slightly exaggerated threat?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U41	That's a very good question! I cannot speak on behalf of the Commission because this issue was not discussed in the Commission. I will be able to comment on this as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It is an assessment in terms of value, and I imagine that the Finnish Prime Minister spoke in terms of value. Our Riigikogu currently has a four-party association and I understand why the three parties support the draft. At least in Parliament's Committee on Monetary Affairs, it was clear that three political parties supported the draft, one against. This one is trying to give his constituents something to understand internally. At the same time, I have sensed that when we have been to meet our colleagues in Europe, Estonian MEPs are relatively unanimous, regardless of the party, to present their more general vision of Europe. This value-based assessment seems to be in place. I think that being in the European Union is about being together in both good and bad. We must guarantee lending to a troubled country and a true story; at some point these guarantees may actually apply. In specific figures, our guarantees are increasing. If, when adopting the draft ESM as a law, it could be said that we have guaranteed a hypothetical amount of over EUR 1 billion, then it is currently specifically EUR 16 or EUR 17 million. This is the specific amount for which the guarantee will be effective. It doesn't translate into actual payout, but the guarantee is written down. Clearly, it has not been easy to create all these guarantee schemes. But let us take into account precisely the value base that the European Union has in itself and the desire that we in a united family should pursue a common mindset, particularly in economic policy, but also share other values. To conclude, I fully share the opinion of the Finnish Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U42	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U43	Good waitress! The Cyprus aid package is conditional on Cyprus to realise some of its gold reserves. I'm sorry, I don't remember that percentage right now, it's probably known to you. But how big are these Cypriot gold reserves and why are they being held? Obviously, the task of the state's gold reserves is to alleviate certain problems when a crisis arises. Is it fair that Cyprus sits on a pile of gold and sucks our blood like a tick through the ESM, and we're smaller and poorer than him? We've got gold, I don't know, maybe 100 kilos left, that's all. What are Cyprus's gold reserves?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U44	With regard to the size of the gold reserves, I owe you an answer. The bilateral MOU agreement between the European Commission and Cyprus does not mention the specific amount of gold stocks. At the same time, I can say that perhaps it has not been noticed that Cyprus does indeed receive 10 billion aid through the European Commission, the IMF and the ESM, but it has also committed itself to making a great deal of savings. The state is trying to reduce its costs by around EUR 12.2 billion. One measure, however, is really what you have mentioned, which is about gold. It is expected that the central bank's profits and the sale of gold will provide the State with additional cash of EUR 400 million. How much gold there is, but I really don't know. However, in addition to gold, money is expected to come from the banking sector, as well as from privatisation. Privatisation is expected to generate revenue of EUR 1 billion by 2016 and, later on, a total of EUR 1.4 billion, plus a further refinancing of bonds. The extension of the loan agreement with Russia is also expected to benefit. The total amount should be 12.2 billion, which is actually earned by Cyprus itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U45	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U46	The ESM was set up last year when Cyprus was not yet officially a programme country, and it is likely that Cyprus itself contributed to it. What is the share of Cyprus in helping itself in the ESM? Or, if there isn't, who will cover the Cyprus part?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U47	The Münchhausen method isn't used to pull myself out by the hair. I can't tell you what Cyprus's share is. During the debate on the ESM, the share of all countries was highlighted. The percentage of Estonia was one of the smallest and Cyprus was at the very end. Germany accounted for almost a quarter of the volume of ESM. I owe you the percentage of Cyprus, and it certainly does not matter very much either. However, I can tell you that if Cyprus becomes a beneficiary country from the donor country, as has already happened in other countries, it will withdraw from donor membership and its participation will be shared between the other Member States. In addition, Cyprus participates in loans previously issued by the EFSF. So it will not change this participation, but in the case of later loans. Once it has become in need of assistance, its participation will be reallocated between other countries. As the Minister of Finance said yesterday, given the share of Cyprus so far, Estonia's participation will increase by 0.006%.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U48	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U49	Dear waitress, You have used the Russian word 'troika' when talking about the triumphate of the European Central Bank, the European Commission and the IMF. Troika has three basic meanings in Russian. One is the 'three' grade, the other is three horses in front of one wagon, and the third is Ossoboje sovešchanije, an extra-judicial repressive body that operated during Stalin in the 1930's and generously shared the death penalty. Now, if you're talking about a troika, what do you mean? Do you give 'three' grades, or do you think they're horses that somebody's been whipping at all times, or is it like an out-of-court body that's going to end Cyprus?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U50	Thank you. Yesterday we had a meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, where there was not much debate. That question wasn't up either. I will leave my personal assessments later if I should wish to express any other opinion as a member of the Riigikogu during the second reading. In the Committee on Finance, we did not have an in-depth analysis of what Troika means and how we understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U51	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U52	Good waitress! Here's the question. Following the events in Cyprus, as well as Greece, we can see that there are basically two ways to support our country. To put it lightly, one way is to keep pensions and salaries high and let the state fall into debt. The second option is, like us here in Estonia, to keep the budget balanced at all costs, despite the fact that a large part of the population lives in poverty. And now we want to confirm that this is the right way to go. However, when reminding us of the Estonian Constitution, it says that the most important thing is to ensure the continuity of nationality, language and culture, not at all the balance of the budget. If one and the other country starts asking for help in this way, which behaviour is, in the end, the right one, Greece and Cyprus or Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U53	Estonia's.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U54	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U55	Good waitress! I'm seriously embarrassed. On the one hand, I would like to vote in favour of how you do not help allies and friends, but I would like to help. But on the other hand, I wonder how a friend or an ally can act like a robber. He's taking money from savers, that's a total robbery! How would you comfort me or convince me to vote for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U56	We have come to the issues of comfort in our debate. As in all other countries in Europe, Cyprus has guaranteed the immunity of deposits of up to EUR 100 000. It's very important. If not, the question would have arisen as to whether we dare to keep our money in various parts of Europe's banks. In the case of Cyprus, it is clearly emphasised that deposits up to EUR 100000 are inviolable. There are examples that banks face financial problems in the world because of wrong decisions by banks or other factors. In such cases, all the money is lost, 100%! If there were no guarantees for deposits of up to EUR 100000, everything could be lost. There are also examples in Estonia that clients in the public sector as well as private individuals have lost all their savings. If depositors choose the bank where they want to operate, they must always consider the reliability and sustainability of one or the other bank. In the case of a commercial establishment, customers will never be protected from the possibility of the institution going bankrupt. It may not be a bank, it may be an ordinary private company to which you make a transfer on the basis of an invoice and who, before offering you a service or a good, will go bankrupt. There are situations like this. Now, however, two good things are very important, if anything can be said to be acceptable. One is the guarantee of deposits of up to EUR 100 000, which is the general rule. Secondly, as far as deposits of more than EUR 100 000 are concerned, I have understood that the Central Bank of Cyprus and the Ministry of Finance are developing a scheme for converting them partly into bank equity or bonds. It gives depositors some hope that someday in the future, when the bank is doing well, they will get their money back. What's the probability, there's a separate question, but the alternative would have been the fact that you're losing your deposits when you've been holding your money in the wrong place.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U57	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U58	Good waitress! As you mentioned, the ESM takes out a loan on the market, passes it on and adds its own interest margin to it. We're saying here it's 10 basis points. How do you feel about this ten basis points being a reasonable interest margin, or is it too high or too low?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U59	I guess all things that are called feelings are always subjective. Someone seems to have a large number and a small number for somebody. We should now compare this number with something to make an estimate, and we can only compare it with the interest that Cyprus could borrow from the money market. It's actually a reference base. And on the basis of this reference base, I can say that Cyprus will receive a loan at a very good price after the ESM has actually started to make a financial allocation for it. Ten basis points is the so-called financing cost plus a one-off fee of 50 basis points on the amount of each payment, plus an annual fee of 0,5 basis points on the outstanding balance of the loan, these are the relevant figures. You might think it's a very good loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U60	Please, colleague Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U61	Honourable waitress! I would like to make one point clear, so that the debate does not leave a mistaken opinion on the recovery of interest income to Greece and on the possibility that the Cyprus programme might, as it were, be the same thing. The repayment of interest to Greece is the purchase of a bond by the European Central Bank and the interest earned on those bonds, which is returned to Greece. This is a matter for the central bank, it has nothing to do with aid programmes. Interest received by Member States under the ESM scheme shall remain with the ESM and shall be used to strengthen the capital of the ESM. As far as I am aware, the interest income earned by the ESM will not be returned to the Member States. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U62	Good question! That's true. That's true. Greece is the European Central Bank. As far as relations between the central bank and Greece are concerned, I would also point out that the revenues earned from specific bonds have not only been interest income. Revenue has also been obtained from the bond product as it has been sold on the market. The central bank was able to buy bonds due to the crisis when they were undervalued. It was able to purchase the Greek State's relatively low-priced bonds, and later their price increased and not only interest income but also the proceeds from the sale of bonds. And by the way, that's basic revenue. However, this is not a 'day-to-day' income and so it was decided at central bank level that this money would be partially returned to Greece.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U63	Please, Mr Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U64	Good colleague! As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, are you sure that the problems that currently exist in the European Union will end with Cyprus? Isn't it high time we organised a proper audit at least in the euro-zone countries so that there are no more such surprises?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U65	I'd like to answer with the famous slogan 'You can count on it! ', but I'm afraid I can't. Given the debt burden of the so-called old European countries, given the budget's cost-benefit balance, we cannot be sure. However, in Europe, the day-to-day activities of all Member States are monitored very closely, especially in the implementation and adoption of budgets. To this end, a large number of additional measures have been put in place that were not previously available. One of the examples of this is that, if Member States generally adopt next year's budget in the autumn, they now have to present their vision of what will happen in the coming years. They send it to the European Commission, which will review it and provide their tips as feedback. There has been a long discussion as to whether or not this is essentially an intervention in the country's internal affairs. I imagine that Estonia does not have a problem with this. We have rather set an example in our monetary policy decisions. However, in my opinion, the measures that we are talking about now are one way of stifling decisions in the bud that could aggravate financial problems in a country. Spring reviews of where a particular country is going are very good in this respect. But yes, the short answer is that I'm not sure. However, the activities that have been launched to reduce risks are clearly written in black and clearly visible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U66	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a wish to open negotiations? Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U67	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is appropriate to begin today's speech with the recognition of those Members who found last summer, after the Supreme Court's narrow decision, that the state of Estonia must at least take its commitments so seriously that in the future all new ESM clients will be discussed through the plenary hall of the Riigikogu. Those who took part in the discussions yesterday and today certainly got a clearer picture of who we are going to help this time and what conditions we hope to meet. I believe that the Chancellery of the Riigikogu also has an accurate overview of how many members of the Riigikogu have bothered to open the full text of the Cyprus Memorandum for internal use only in the internal list of our institution. I have no reason to doubt that there were even more of these delegates than took part in the debate in yesterday's session. At the moment, I would like to mention a few aspects that have disturbed me in my argumentation with regard to Cyprus. Firstly, yesterday our Minister for Finance spoke about solidarity. The quote on the Memorandum of Understanding is as follows: 'It is a self-interested activity, but it also has, of course, a strong dimension of assistance, solidarity. We wouldn't want to hurt any of our allies. " Why does our government speak of solidarity only when it is necessary to find an excuse why Estonia, the fastest inflation country in the euro zone, lends itself to the wealthiest countries? It is very likely that this loan will turn out to be an interest-free loan because, in the light of the probability theory, it can be assumed that sometime euro area finance ministers will be regrouped and that this will also decide that the entire interest rate collected by the ESM will be refunded to the borrowers, as has already happened in the case of Greek bonds. I would remind you that during the summer the hall was very superior to Finland, which demanded additional guarantees for its loans. For the sake of obtaining this additional guarantee, Finland gave up interest income. They said that Estonia is smart, but we will at least get interest income. Now it turns out that Finland was smart, at least she has over-guaranteed her loans. Speaking of solidarity, the solidarity that is born in Cyprus could be analysed and compared to ours. Cyprus needs to increase its revenue. To this end, an exceptional income tax supplement is introduced for a period of three years. But in the case of monthly incomes up to EUR 1500, zero percent is added. The higher burden, i.e. the 3.5% increase in income tax, is borne by the recipients of a monthly income of over EUR 350. And the minister also had a logical explanation: the richest benefited the most from the boom in Cyprus, and it makes sense that they also contribute more to recovery. But in Estonia, where people with high incomes also benefited the most from the tax reductions of the boom age, we do not talk about such solidarity. Cyprus agrees that in the future the income of people receiving a national salary or pension will not be indexed twice a year, but only once a year, depending on inflation. But here in Estonia, due to crisis measures, real pensions have been decreasing for four years in succession. It is true that Minister Jürgen Ligi made a suggestion yesterday, and now his quote is coming: 'I do advise not to introduce the Cyprus Memorandum to pensioners. They have a much closer subject. Indeed, it can hurt their soul and is not good for them. ' But why should the people of Estonia not be interested in this? However, we guarantee EUR 16.74 million, and we give this guarantee for 15 years. And if there's a glitch, we'll cover it ourselves. I recall that Cyprus only joined the euro area five years ago and then met all the conditions. A successful joiner five years ago has now become a needy! We, on the other hand, contribute our resources for 15 years and are responsible for our taxpayers' money in the event of a relapse. The second statement that sounded yesterday was that we were betting on the microscopic sum. But on Monday, in this speech chair, the Minister of Social Affairs said that five additional ambulance brigades are needed to cover Estonia with an ambulance network, and if the money is found, they will come. The amount sought from the budget was 10 times smaller, or only 1.5 million euros. True, in the end, however, it must be acknowledged that Cyprus is selling all its gold. Those who read the documents know it. Coming to help the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I will explain that this is the reason why the price of gold is falling on the world market now and Meelis Atonen has probably gained a few gray hairs. But we commit ourselves to our country for 15 years, and we give a loan that may prove to be an interest-free loan to a country that is wealthier than we are. That may not be justified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-18_U68	Thank you very much, Mr Simson. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. There are no amendments to this draft decision, and we can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will final vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Accepting the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the European Commission and the Republic of Cyprus', 419. Please vote! 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 21 against and no abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, Our agenda is exhausted and I will give you very good news: there will be no evening session. Closure of the sitting at 10.56 a.m.
