ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. I hope that the other ministers will be there soon. Let's start today's briefing. Please do the presence check first! 41 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 60 are missing. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. Since we have seven previously registered issues today, in order for us to be able to discuss most of them, two questions can be asked on the spot. So you have to have quick fingers again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U2	Let's get to the questions. Mr Mikser has a question for Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U3	Thank you. Prime Minister! During the last week, the Estonian public and, above all, the cultural community have been shocked by the replacement of the editorial of the cultural site Sirp and, above all, by the role of Rein Lang, the Minister of Culture of your government in this process. Since there have been extremely controversial signals, I ask you whether you have asked your government minister if you have understood this issue and, if so, what he has said to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U4	Thank you. Of course, I've asked my government minister. I've got some clarity, but apparently, Rein Lang isn't the person who can give you full clarity on what's going on around the Sirb and what's going on there. There have been very controversial signals, some of which have proved to be false signals. I note the many repeated claim that Kaur Kender would have called Toomas Väljataga and said that he had already agreed with Rain Rosimnuus and Kristen Michal and that he had to become Sirb's editor-in-chief. Kaur Kender, Toomas Väljataga, Rain Rosimannus, as well as Kristen Michal, has overturned this false claim, which has been multiplied for a week. I have realized that this has also been denied by Thomas Väljataga, brother Märt Väljataga, whose e-mail such a statement had been relied upon. Let this be an example of the fact that there is a great deal of information noise around what is happening. I don't have full clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U5	Please, Mr Sven Mikser, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U6	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, let's leave Outside, his brother, Michal and Rosimavallus, and talk about Minister Lang. The press and the public have had the impression that since 14 November, Minister Lang has systematically shattered and dimmed his role in this process. Do you think Minister Lang has told the public the truth and only the truth?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U7	Since I do not have the full picture of what has happened, of course, I cannot seriously say that he has spoken the truth and only the truth, or to say the opposite. I'm not sufficiently informed. But I don't agree with you. These things don't have to go so easily, we're gonna leave Kristen Michal and Rain Rosimavallus there and go on. Basically, this thing should be crossed out, too. Those who have wrongly blamed, those who have dreamed, and those who have spoken of these dreams in a specific way to the entire Estonian people should be responsible for their words. I have heard from Rein Lang that the meeting with him took place on 8 November and was initiated by the President of the Council, Urmas Klaas, who was not present at that meeting. At the same time, I know from an interview with Toomas Väljataga that this Kaur Kender speech to him took place on 4 or 5 November, I do not know exactly the date. I think it is important that Kaur Kender offered to be the editor-in-chief of Sirb much earlier than the meeting took place in the office of the Minister of Culture. I understand that Sirbi's editor asked for money from the Minister of Culture, and I have also understood that the Minister of Culture ordered the Chancellor to find the money, but not to quite ask for it. In this respect, I have no reproach for the Minister of Culture. He did what he had to do, although he could probably have found even more money.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U8	Please, Mr Sven Mikser, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U9	Thank you, Prime Minister. This faceless scandal has two parts: the behaviour of Minister Lang during this scandal and his role in the outbreak of this scandal. That last part was motivated by my previous questions. I also want to know whether Minister Lang has expressed his willingness to resign during this scandal or whether you yourself have considered releasing Rein Lang from office as Minister of Culture. If you've done this, when can we expect a message?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U10	Yeah, well, one way is, as soon as you get criticized, tell me you're sick of it and you don't want to deal with it anymore. We have seen this behaviour here in the Riigikogu. I think it's far more important to find out the truth, what really happened. First, some actions were incriminating Rain Rosimnuus and Kristen Michal. Now it has become clear that there were no grounds for incriminating. Now Rein Lang will be incriminating for acts that he certainly has not done, he will be given claims that he certainly has not made. Like I said, I don't have a full picture of what happened. Before I shape my position, I want to get an overview of it. I want to get a clear picture of how things happened and why they happened the way they did. Rein Lang is given a position as if he had completely distanced himself from Sirb in the early stages of this scandal. I, too, have observed his statements, not so much as to be able to quote them literally and literally, but I have not heard from him that he has not seen Sirp at all, and he has not held it in his hands, and he has certainly never read Sirp. No such claims have I heard from Rein Lang. I've heard the claim that he doesn't do exhibitions, doesn't produce concert plans, and doesn't put in place Sirb's editor-in-chief. However, this distance from Sirb has become much broader and more general. I think that's unfair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U11	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U12	Thank you. Prime Minister! We recall recent developments: the arrogance of Autorollo, Jürgen Ligi, the dead end of pension reform, the growing emigration from Estonia and now the uprising of the cultural people against you. Your party's popularity has fallen to 18%, or the minimum. The uprising of the cultural people, as we know, has also begun the end of the ESSR. I have a question about what you're going to do. Don't you remember the thoughts of resigning? The Prime Minister or the government should resign, or you must start repairing the government, because society is no longer satisfied with your government. This is also demonstrated by popularity studies and intelligence behaviour. What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U13	Thank you. I wouldn't want to generalize intelligence as you do. I consider Professor Mikhail Lotman, for example, to be a highly intelligent person. In my opinion, he is undoubtedly an opinion leader, and I would not dare to place him outside intelligence in any way. I would also advise you to think seriously before you place enough of Estonia's intelligence and cultural public outside the cultural circles. It is not quite the case that this is a very unambiguous question. I'm not the person who could start categorizing that on one side Kaur Kender and on the other side Jan Kaus. If I had to make a choice which would be the editor-in-chief, or if I had to tell you which was the better writer, I'd put my hands up. I don't know how to do that. I think they're both authoritative people. Thank God, I'm not obliged to put them in the rankings either. I also ask you not to classify highly intelligent people as unintelligent!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U14	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U15	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! It seems that there are more anti-cultural ministers in your government than Minister of Culture Rein Lang. I am thinking of Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and his behaviour in connection with the sponsoring of the Olympic Committee by the Port of Tallinn. In fact, he banned it or vetoed it; he was able to convince the Council that it would change its decision. I don't consider the conduct of Minister Parts to be very right, even though there may be some legal nuances back there that have caused problems. Estonian Air, under his command, may have supported the Finnish Ice Hockey Association, but at the Port of Tallinn he prohibits supporting the Estonian Olympic Committee and the sports movement of Estonian youth. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U16	The Prime Minister is not in the habit of agreeing with the representative of the opposition, but I agree with your assessment. We obviously need to look closely at the topic of sponsorship of state-owned companies at the Government's Cabinet meeting in order to ensure that the positions of ministers are close, if not overlapping. I consider public relations and marketing of monopoly companies to be essential. I have also read some textbook chapters and articles about it. World practice and science confirm that monopolistic companies, including state-owned companies, have to carry out marketing activities. It is not quite as simple as some newspaper editorial claims that if a company has too much profit, then let it pass it on to the Treasury and it will distribute that profit fairly and in the best way. Each company also needs resources for public relations activities. One large company is unable, for example, to realise its plans in the local government if it does not fully have the means of public relations. If there are already a hundred barrels in a row and the intention is to set the first hundred, the local government will simply not allow it without debugging and organising the relations. That is why broader public relations is also important. Support for the Olympic Committee is a matter of honour and is expected to be profitable for the company, although not always. Coca-Cola does not waste huge sums of money on the fact that five rings are next to the Coca-Cola logo. It has a very large commercial significance. We should think about why large companies make such huge investments in marketing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Please, Heimar Lenk, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U18	President-in-Office of the Council. I have a question for you: why does the Prime Minister not answer the questions of the MPs? I asked a question about the resignation of the government or the Prime Minister, but I heard in response whether Kaur Kender would be the editor-in-chief.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U19	The answer is the person who answers. I don't determine what he's gonna say. You can ask that question twice again. But right now, I'm going to stop dealing with this issue. [[???H. Lengi vahelehüüe: 'Millal ma saan seda küsida?'???]] You will certainly have the opportunity to ask this in the debate on unemployment, for example, when Andrus Ansip answers. (H. Leng's interjection: 'What about unemployment? ') You said that people are leaving Estonia and so on. Let's keep going. I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U20	The next question is from my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U21	Good minister! The recent tragic events in traffic have left none of us cold. So what's going on? Rudder drinking, speeding, mending on the streets of the city, it's like it's a perfectly normal phenomenon, even the police are commenting on traffic hooliganism as an athletic driving style. Unfortunately, it seems that the main force of the traffic police is directed towards straight, good-quality roads to collect fines, while the hardened traffic hulgans remain out of orbit. How do you comment on this situation and whether the activity of traffic hooligans on city streets can now be called an athletic driving style?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U22	Thank you for your question. Two minutes will certainly not be enough to talk about what we have done in the last two years to improve traffic culture. There have been quite a number of these steps. Tragic events in a small country like Estonia are certainly very regrettable. You must have meant the accident in Haapsalu. This has been commented on several times by the public, and I myself have also provided explanations, particularly from the point of view of traffic supervision. To begin with, I say so much that there are a number of factors that affect traffic. When speaking about the role of the state, mention should be made in particular of the road safety and preventive action taken by the Road Administration, as well as of police enforcement. Certainly, the behaviour of road users themselves, compliance with traffic rules, as well as the state of roads in the country, are very important. The focus of traffic surveillance is certainly focused on hardened traffic hooligans. Take, for example, the drinkers. This year, we are confiscating the vehicles of hardened drunk drivers as a means of committing a crime, practically ten times as much as we did two years ago. This year, we will take away about a hundred vehicles from those who are essentially affected by nothing, not even more severe penalties. This is just one example that we have directed the spike to hardened traffic hooligans. I think that the steps taken have also produced results, even in the sense that this year we are seeing a reduction in the number of all infringements. The positive trend, I hope, will continue in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U23	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U24	Thank you. My next question concerns beginners. We know that according to the new Traffic Act, the beginner's driver's badge becomes a maple leaf volunteer. At the same time, we know that, for example, the results of the B exam have been worse year after year, and the driving instructors are concerned about this. Then why do you think we're losing this maple leaf? Do you think that's right?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U25	Thank you for your question. This is a matter that concerns, in particular, the law on traffic and, in fact, the area of competence of the other ministry. As I said, the Ministry of the Interior and the police are under the jurisdiction of traffic supervision, but everything that concerns road safety and prevention is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. These two public offices are taking steps together to increase the peace and security of traffic. You pointed out the problem of beginners. It's very important. As we know, this tragic event in Haapsalu was particularly relevant to the 19- to 23-year-old age group. In this case, it was not a beginner driver, but probably a person who had much greater traffic experience than perhaps a normal young driver. However, he was fundamentally wrong about all the basic rules that could be achieved: he was drunk and probably overtired; his seat belt was unmounted; he did not require his passengers to fasten his seat belt. Amazingly, the only one who was wearing a seat belt was a minor. The most cautious and rule-respecting citizen in this car was therefore a minor person, adults broke basically all the rules this tragic morning. So your turn is absolutely right. Activities, which the Committee on Traffic considers appropriate in relation to beginners' drivers, are constantly the subject of discussion. As far as this maple leaf is concerned, I think it is a bit broader. Rather, it involves training beginners' leaders.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U26	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U27	Thank you. I didn't really ask about the Haapsalu case, but I wanted to know your opinion, as a member of the government, that this maple leaf, which is the mark of a beginner's leader, would be lost. Do you think that's right?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U28	The maple leaf will not be lost. It will certainly continue to be appropriate for people to use it, thus revealing their status in traffic. However, I think that the most important of this mark is very well thought-out training and training for drivers who are driving as a beginner. In particular, this concerns drivers who, as a beginner, have violated traffic regulations. The conditions have been tightened up, i.e. more beginners are sent to further training if they have broken traffic regulations. I think it should be continued. I am not sure whether we can limit the braveness of beginners' leaders by using this symbol; rather, it is a question of shaping attitudes and values that take place at an earlier age, especially at school, even in kindergarten. I think that this tragic event, which we are also discussing here today in Question Time, shows that the formation of attitudes and values and compliance with the rules begin early. The question is how to make schoolchildren understand that compliance with the rules in traffic is not only in their own interests, but also in the interests of everyone else, which is primarily intended to protect their neighbours and ensure a road safety.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U29	A question registered on the spot, Mr Kaljuvee, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U30	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! Undoubtedly, the tragic, sad, and depressing accident near Haapsalu ten days ago. But I liked the position of Chief of Police, Elmar Vaher, after the accident. He said it was a crime, although it was not yet known that the driver had been drinking alcohol. I think the chief of police reacted correctly. What is your view, is he doing the right thing, and do we have to call such things, even though they are sad, by the right name?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U31	Thank you very much. The day after, I referred to it in a similar way, dividing what happened in traffic broadly into two things: road accidents and malicious behaviour in traffic. Criminal behaviour is criminal, and I think it is extremely important to name things with the right name. When we talk abstractly and widely about all traffic incidents as road accidents, it is as if we are taking the view that this has just happened. But, as you are perfectly aware, what happened in Haapsalu is a pattern example that everything that could be done was wrong: when they were drunk, they were driving, the security requirements were not met, the driver was exhausted, and so on. I can also talk about what we have done in two years, above all, to strengthen traffic surveillance. However, I would stress that traffic has been affected as a whole by the police's very good cooperation with the Road Administration, especially better prevention, which has been aimed specifically at light road users, i.e. cyclists and pedestrians. Surveillance has increased in the last two years. Repeated offenders and those who have committed serious infringements, such as those driving intoxicated alcohol, have not used security equipment or have reached high speeds, are much stricter. I think these steps will produce results. The general trend is that the number of road accidents, road accidents with victims or also road fatalities is decreasing. This trend is important to us, and I very much hope that we will be able to keep it up with various steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U32	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I will ask a short question, which also requires a short answer. Do you support the idea of banning the sale of alcohol at gas stations?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U34	Thank you for your question. I think it's a very worth considering. It's been being discussed for quite a few years. In my opinion, reducing the availability of alcohol will help to reduce the number of alcohol-related accidents and malicious traffic activity, as shown by a number of studies in different countries. Alcohol is very easily available in Estonia. As you know, according to surveys, Estonia is one of the leading countries in this respect. I think we should give an unambiguous signal that traffic and alcohol do not go hand in hand. Since the summer of 2011, we have been working with the private sector, we have tried, using all our powers, to get people to understand the message that once you drink, don't drive. What can we read from the statistics? The overall trend again shows a decline: in 2013 the number of drink-drink drivers in Estonian traffic has decreased compared to 2012, while 1.6 drink drivers were previously hit for 100000 drivers, but now 1.3. I think this idea of yours is definitely worth considering. In any case, I welcome this discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U35	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I will also stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U36	The next question is from my colleague, Urve Palo, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Prime Minister! According to a recent study by the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, more than 40,000 young people aged 15 to 29 living in Estonia do not work or study. Their exclusion from education and the labour market is a serious problem with harmful consequences for society and the economy. We talked about this in this very Chamber a few weeks ago, and I asked you if the government had plans to focus on youth unemployment. You replied that this was not a serious problem enough to address it with focus, and you admired my ability to be pessimistic on this issue. I'm going to ask you again. Are 40,000 young people who do not learn or work large enough to be able to deal with this issue with a focus at government level?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U38	Please don't put any claims in my mouth that I've never said in my mouth! I have never told you or the honourable Riigikogu that youth unemployment is not a serious enough problem. Mrs. Palo, you're lying! Youth unemployment is a serious problem despite the fact that youth unemployment in Estonia is one of the lowest in the European Union. According to Eurostat's latest data, there is 14.5% youth unemployment in Estonia. This means that we are probably among the five or six countries with the lowest youth unemployment in the European Union, I do not remember the exact place, but we can look it up from Eurostat. Despite this, youth unemployment is a very important problem and has been consistently addressed by the unemployment fund and the Government of the Republic. I assured you last time that the Youth Guarantee will also be dealt with very thoroughly by the Ministry of Social Affairs and we will definitely take this initiative from Finland, which has become the initiative of the entire European Union, also in Estonia. So the Government of the Republic has dealt with youth unemployment, it is important to us. It is precisely because we have dealt with this issue that in Estonia youth unemployment is 14.5%, but not more than 50%, just as it is in several Member States of the European Union. But we have not achieved our goal. We will certainly continue to address this issue, because today, too, youth unemployment is almost twice as high as unemployment in the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U39	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U40	Thank you. Prime Minister! A few weeks ago, when you answered questions about European Union policy here, you said that you admire my pessimism on this issue, and did not specifically point out any action on how youth unemployment should be reduced, because you found it to be at the European Union average level and so is okay. By the way, last year there was 20.9% youth unemployment in Estonia, according to the Auditor General. It is also known that such a large number of young people, 40000 young people who do not work or study, represent 238 million euros of income lost to Estonia each year, which is 1.5% of GDP. These figures are very, very large. That is why I am asking you once again on the same subject, Prime Minister: please tell me specifically what steps you have taken and are planning to take to reduce youth unemployment in Estonia so that 40,000 will become, for example, 4000!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U41	You're wrong again, to put it mildly. I have never argued, or at least today I am not telling you that youth unemployment is at the European Union average level in Estonia. If it has been at the average level, I have said so, but now 14.5% is very clearly below the average level of the European Union. The average level of the European Union, according to my memory, is over 20%, but we have 14.5%. But also during the debate on European Union policy, you mainly focused your questions on the Youth Guarantee. I believe I have given you this answer exhaustively. It's being dealt with, it's coming. In addition, as a member of the Riigikogu, it is probably not a foreign initiative of the government and the Riigikogu to invite students who have dropped out of vocational school to return to vocational school. At least the Riigikogu has allocated funds for this. I can assure you that the recall of early school leavers has been a successful programme. Thanks to the unemployment fund for that. As a member of the Riigikogu, you will probably not be familiar with the program supported by the Riigikogu, which will bring students who have dropped out of the university back to the university. I can assure you that this initiative has also been worth following. These are also measures that have helped to reduce youth unemployment very strongly. It would be nice to think that the Riigikogu and the government do nothing and that youth unemployment falls from 40% to 14.5% in itself. I wish it were! In fact, this opinion offends a large number of people whose work and effort have led to youth unemployment falling to 14.5%. Let us acknowledge them!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U42	Mr. Prime Minister, we have two minutes to respond. Please stick to it! Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U43	The measures you have listed have not been sufficient, because we are talking today about 40000 children who are not studying or working. That's a fact. If youth unemployment has also decreased somewhat, it has fallen greatly because young people have simply left Estonia because they have not found work here. But I understand that you have nothing more specific to say on this subject, so I will change the subject. In Estonia, 24000 people have been unemployed for two years and longer. As of 2012, more than half of the unemployed had been unemployed for more than a year. The National Audit Office points out in its annual report that this is a major problem on the Estonian labour market and a key factor influencing people's ability to cope. What are government plans to reduce long-term unemployment, apart from indirectly forcing people to leave Estonia in order to improve performance?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U44	Thank you. In order to avoid the sound of your statement about 40,000 unemployed young people, we are addressing the data of Statistics Estonia. Statistics Estonia assures us that there were 10200 young unemployed in the third quarter of 2013. Not 40,000, as you say, but 10,200. The youth unemployment rate is 14.5%. Your claim that the number of long-term unemployed is 24000 is even true in case of rounding, because the exact number is 23700. However, you have probably not read the latest Statistical Office press release, which tells us, among other things, that the number of long-term unemployed in Estonia has started to decline rapidly. Let us tell you that there were 35800 long-term unemployed in Estonia in the third quarter of 2012, and now there are 23700. Once again, if all this happens by itself, let it happen. For some reason, however, I think that because we have a drop in the number of long-term unemployed by more than 10,000 today, there are very many people's efforts, work and work that you do not want to recognise. This is a very significant result, but of course we have not achieved the objective. 23700 long-term unemployed are too many.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U45	Now two issues registered on the spot. Colleagues Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Two days ago, we were able to read an opinion saying that perhaps pensioners who are active in the labour market would not have to pay pensions. I have to admit, I don't remember who this statement belongs to. I am interested in your view of how this could affect our labour market. What is your personal position on this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U47	Thank you. That's a stupid suggestion. But with such stupidity, one or the other has come up from time to time. Estonia stands out in the European Union by the fact that we have a high level of employment for older people. I am quite convinced that our unique pension system, which makes it possible to pay a full pension to all working pensioners, is precisely one of the causes of the high level of employment for older people. I think this system is working in Estonia and I see no reason why we should start reviewing this system. Nor do I see any pragmatic reason to initiate a discussion on this subject. This proposal is neither human nor feasible. I also disagree with the proposals referred to here and made in the National Audit Office's review that pensions should be cut, social tax should be increased or some type of pension excluded from the pension system, as this would solve our problem. The problems related to pensions are also solved by rapid economic growth, which is precisely what efforts should be made to make the Estonian economy grow. I guess there'll be a rise in pensions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U48	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Since today's topic is unemployment, I am addressing unemployment in north-east and south-east Estonia. In fact, unemployment is the highest in these regions and people have the lowest incomes there. You said that the government and the Riigikogu create opportunities for people themselves to look for jobs and create jobs. I totally agree with you. Latvia moved this year to a new system for visa-free and simplified border crossings for people living near the border. Have you discussed in the cabinet, or are you going to discuss the issue of whether or not you should switch to such a system? This would give border residents a better opportunity to go to Russia and establish contacts there, thus creating new jobs and helping themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U50	Thank you. We haven't discussed this lately. It once sounded like Finland had implemented this system, but Finland did not do it either. Visa freedom with Russia is a broader issue. Russia, as we know, must fulfil certain preconditions set by the European Union. Only then could we seriously talk about visa-free movement. Firstly, biometric travel documents must be issued to Russian citizens. This has not been done in Russia at the moment. Secondly, Russia must abolish the existing obligation to register citizens of the European Union. It is now the case that Russian citizens can travel freely within the European Union without having to register in any of the cities, but if a citizen of the European Union goes to Russia, he will not be able to enter certain areas at all and in certain cities he is obliged to register. There's got to be a parity here. A third very important precondition for visa liberalisation is the readmission agreement and the credibility of its implementation. It can be declared that all people who have crossed the border illegally will be taken back, but the other half where these illegal border crossings are going must be convinced that this Treaty will certainly be implemented. Now, there's a lot of questions about this credibility. This means that all boundaries should be properly controlled. In the case of Russia, this also means very clearly controls on the borders of Central Asian countries. So this is a process, not a one-off decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U51	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U52	The next question is for Mr Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, Mr Ester Tuiksole.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister of the Interior! A week ago, the Prime Minister and I discussed the subject of anarchy in the waiting area of the border inspection post quite sympatheticly, but there are issues on which I would also like to hear your opinion as Minister for this sector. The Ministry of Interior has granted the management of the waiting area of the Koidula border crossing point to Paldiski Sadamate AS, owned by the offshore company. Most of the time, however, the offshore area is used to conceal revenue. Are you aware of the owners of Paldiski Harbours AS as Minister of the Interior? Whose pocket does the cross-border money go to? Have you investigated whether there may be a risk of corruption or whether the company is somehow involved with your party?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U54	Thank you for your question. The Koidula border crossing area was managed by a public competition in 2011 and the Ministry of the Interior signed an administrative contract with Paldiski Harbours AS on 5 May 2011. It was the only company involved in this competition. It was an open competition and it was conducted as required by the law. For a period of five years, the same company assumed responsibility for carrying out the tasks under the management contract. As regards the word 'anarchy' used in your question, you are absolutely right. Anarchy was in Estonian border crossings until August 2011, when the electronic queue system was implemented in Estonia. There was a lot of talk about this in this Chamber, too, in the last Question Time. The border crossing between Estonia and Russia was disorderly, chaotic, even anarchic. The queues that reached tens of kilometres were a disgrace to the Estonian state and certainly to the east of us. On the Estonian side, the queues have now disappeared; they have been transferred to an electronic environment. I think the Estonian society, border residents and the environment have won from it. I think that our system has been organised and we can also set an example for other European countries. As you know, several countries have visited Estonia to examine the nature of the electronic queue and reservation system and wish to implement it themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U55	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U56	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, You didn't actually answer the problem questions, you talked about what was really good. However, on 29 October the Administrative Court of Tartu declared unlawful of its decision to refer a border crossing to an unjustified waiting area before border control operations were carried out. According to the State Border Act, police directs a vehicle wishing to cross a state border to a waiting area, if there are certain reasons for doing so. But why has this arrangement not been made reasonable for a border crossingr, and why does the waiting period have to be paid by a border crossingr who does not actually use these services?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U57	Thanks for the questions. We have discussed this topic here in the Riigikogu in the course of answering quite a number of questions and also in the Riigikogu committees. The Riigikogu formed its position in the summer of 2010 by adopting amendments to the Act on the organisation of entry of vehicles to the road border crossing point in particular. As I mentioned, these tasks have been delegated to a private legal entity under the law and the administrative contract. You know that the waiting list system consists of two components: a waiting area service and a waiting list service. We can say that the fee is also made up of two components: the waiting fee and the fee for using the waiting area. Your question was referred to persons who have pre-booked their place. It can be repeated very clearly that persons who have booked in advance will not be charged twice in the queue. It's not done, it's taken once. They will pay it in advance at the moment when they electronically book their place in the queue for border crossings. Our approach to these services, as well as that of the legislator, has been that we are based on the whole of the waiting zone. If you are asking which service is then provided to the person who has booked the place and arrives at the border... I'm sorry! I hope I can answer that by answering the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U58	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U59	Thank you very much, Madam President. In fact, border crossing has been made very uncomfortable for people because of their components. In the view of those who have used this service, this has not been logical. This judgment also confirms this. I hope that you will now talk about what you were probably thinking about answering the previous question. Have you checked the operation of this company? Does it still respond to what is assigned to him, and how are border crossings treated?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U60	Thank you for the opportunity to continue. As regards the case where a person has booked a place and arrives at the border, he/she will pay for the waiting area service. This service contains very important components, such as the waiting area manager, checking whether the vehicle and the booked time belong together, whether the driver is the same, whether the vehicle has arrived at the border at the right time and whether everything corresponds to what the waiting area queue system prescribes. As we have spoken in this Chamber, and also in the Commission, if we want to fragment different services and we are of the opinion that we are making the situation any easier, of course, we can make such choices. But we need to understand that the principle established by the previous parliamentary formation is actually very simple: the person who uses this service will pay for the waiting area service, not all Estonian taxpayers. This Parliament's decision was taken in 2010. We can, of course, always initiate a discussion and start reviewing this principle, but I do not find border crossings uncomfortable at the moment. As we have talked about, border crossings have become several times more comfortable and flexible than in the past. At the same time, we can always discuss the sources from which the provision of this service is covered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U61	Ladies and gentlemen, two issues now registered on the ground. Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In Estonia, border crossings are controlled by the Police and Border Guard Board. I was looking at the statistics this morning on how many cars have crossed the border. From twelve o'clock today to six o'clock, i.e. four cars had crossed the border in six hours (i.e. passenger cars). Are you seriously suggesting that these four cars must use a waiting area and pay for the waiting area service? It is a completely absurd situation that everyone is forced to go to the waiting area and to be charged! They have paid the border line fee and have the right to travel freely along the country's roads to the border crossing point where our country's border guards are responsible for control.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U63	Thank you for your question. The law, which entered into force at the beginning of 2011, states very clearly (the Parliament also provided for this possibility by providing for the need for the introduction of an electronic queue system): 'The Minister of Interior may transfer the task of taking the waiting order of the vehicle waiting area service, waiting in waiting order, providing a waiting area service for the border crossing and organising the route to the road border crossing point by means of an administrative contract to the local authority or to a legal entity governed by private law. " Perhaps all these specific services can be delivered. This has been done to ensure smoother and more flexible border crossing and, in particular, a smooth and reasonable management and management of the waiting queue, a respected questioner. Waiting also includes when a person has made an appointment and arrives at the border, but then someone has to check whether the right vehicle has arrived at the border at the right time with the right driver or if another person is driving the vehicle. We look at this service as a whole. If anyone wants to start, as I said, compartmentalising and uncoupling these services, it is, of course, possible to do so. However, we must realise that the decisions taken in 2010 on the basis of which administrative agreements have been made include a financial dimension. We must pay for any other decision, all of us, including those who do not cross the borders of Estonia and Russia once in a year. It's a place of choice. Our choice today is that only those who use the service will pay for the border crossings.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U64	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U65	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Smooth and flexible border crossings will certainly also depend on the presence of border guards or officials at the border. I asked you in the spring about the Narva border crossing, where 79 of the 94 posts had been filled as of spring. However, the analysis of staffing suggests that even 116 officials are needed to ensure that this border crossing is operational as a matter of order and duty. At the time, however, 15 people were structurally missing. Now it's been six months. What can you say? What happened to the Narva border crossing point? Has the situation improved or deteriorated there? I would like to remind you that in 2012, 12 officials resigned. What's the situation now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U66	Thank you for your question. The year 2012 was certainly significantly different from 2013. As you know, at the beginning of this year, it was possible to provide a clear wage increase for officials responsible for internal security, including border guards, for over a long period of years. More than 90% of border guards received wage increases this year, 2013. As announced last year, we also have solutions for 2014 at the Police and Border Guard Board. It is a pleasure to note that wage increases will continue next year, while 75% of the employees of the PBGB will have an increase in wages. In particular, wages rise in low-paid positions, such as regional police, patrol police and border patrols. We will raise the grade wage of the three lowest levels of police officers by at least 7.3%. On the basis of grades 1 to 8, the vast majority of those you asked for will be paid. More than 3,000 police officers will be paid among them. I very much hope that the conditions have been created so that the Narva border crossing can also be better manned than has been the case so far. As far as specific activities are concerned, they are already on the tactical level to decide, i.e. to direct the management of the local prefecture and the Police and Border Guard Board. But I can say that all the conditions have been created to improve people's motivation and to fill vacant posts at the moment. I think that if, on average, the wages of regional police officers increase by 7.4% and the wages of patrol policemen by 9.75%, for example, this should help to alleviate the problem you mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U67	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. Our time is up, so I will stop dealing with this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for asking me questions. Prime Minister and Minister, thank you for answering the questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U68	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 9th working week session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Starts with Mr Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U69	Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Fourteen friends on the islands from among our colleagues, but they certainly still have them in this hall, have an inquiry to Juhan Parts about the future of ferry traffic. Last week, news came out in the media that a subsidiary of the Port of Tallinn organizes a procurement for the purchase of four ferry ships to the state. Based on the publication of Saarte Võik, it can be said that on 8 November the Minister of Economic Affairs commissioned the Tallinn Port subsidiary of AS OÜ TS Shipping to arrange a public procurement for the purchase of four ferry ships in Tartu on the route of Viirtsu and Rohuküla in Heltermaa. According to its plan, the ferry to be acquired by this company should be leased to an undertaking with which the Ministry will conclude a public service contract for the provision of transport services from 1 October 2016 on the routes Virtsu and Rohuküla. Commenting on the planned innovation, the Minister has said: 'Everyone understands that it is much more reasonable if ships belong to the State and the State finds an operator depending on the market situation. All calculations today show that it will be cheaper for the state. ' Due to concerns about the future of ferry traffic and the desire to be informed about the proposed changes, the association of the islands of the Riigikogu has addressed the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications with a request for information on new developments in ensuring ferry connections. Regrettably, the Ministry's response has been ignored and formal. Consequently, we have five questions. When and who carried out the analysis or the feasibility study before the sole shareholder decided to acquire four ferry vessels for the State? How does the Port of Tallinn guarantee the average annual profitability of this project in an open market economy? Is it not hopelessly late to organise public procurement for the design, construction and delivery of four new ferry ships? In addition to these, we have two more questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U70	Time's up. Thank you. Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U71	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I will submit a draft decision to the Riigikogu proposing to the government to establish a set of measures and to initiate a legislative amendment which would link the payment of state parental benefit to the medical examination of the child. Unfortunately, there are cases in Estonia where newborn children are left without proper parental care, because they are not born into this world because of the love of parents or their desire to care for their children, to love and develop them, but to become a new source of income for parents. As a result, there are situations where children are neglected and forced to suffer empty stomachs and abuse. In order to avoid situations where parents use children to receive social benefits, we consider it necessary to introduce a legislative amendment linking parental benefit to the child's medical examination. The problem with the health surveillance system for children in Estonia, especially young children, is that, while family doctors are obliged to monitor children, parents are not obliged to bring children for observation. The Estonian Association of Family Doctors has also offered that only parents who regularly check with the child should receive public and local benefits, because there is no overview of the health and development of a certain number of children. Such conditionality programmes have become increasingly widespread in Europe in order to ensure that the grants still fulfil the objective for which they are established. For example, the health programmes in Austria, France, Finland, Great Britain and other countries have laid down conditional elements for the payment of birth and child benefits. We believe that such a system must also be introduced in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U72	Thank you. Please, colleague Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U73	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party Group will submit a draft of the decision 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic'. Let me talk a little bit about the background and content of this bill. The Social Democratic Party Group has tabled a s. 19 June, the draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act and the Local Government Associations Act. The purpose of this draft was to extend the obligation of associations of local governments and local authorities to develop the business environment and create jobs, as well as to allocate funds to local authorities. On 26 July, the Government of the Republic issued an opinion on the draft, which stated, inter alia, that the draft does not propose solutions and that a complex solution is needed so that practical opportunities to influence the business environment and create jobs are laid down in several sectoral laws. On the basis of the above, we propose to the Government of the Republic to develop, by 1 March 2014, a complex solution on how local authorities should support entrepreneurship, with practical opportunities to influence the business environment and create jobs also being laid down in sectoral laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U74	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted two draft decisions and one inquiry. If the drafts comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to accept them within three working days. If an inquiry complies with this law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. Now, one message. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has taken proceedings in the Estonian Central Party faction. A draft law amending the State Family Benefits Act, which was initiated on 18 November, has appointed the Social Affairs Committee as the lead committee. Now, colleagues, please, let's do the presence check! 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17. Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention, let us clarify the agenda. Today we will continue to work on yesterday's agenda items. Agenda items 12 to 16 of yesterday's sitting have been transferred to the agenda of today's sitting, which are items 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U75	Let us move on to today's agenda items. The first point is the first reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. However, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party has requested this draft not to be discussed at the plenary session today in connection with the visit of the initiator's waitress. That is why we are not discussing this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U76	Let us now go to the second item on the agenda. The first reading of the draft law amending the law on study grants and student loans initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group begins. I ask Mart Meri, member of the Riigikogu for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U77	Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of September, much debated amendments to the Study Grants and Student Loan Act entered into force. A week later, reports were made to the public that the law is open to the public and its implementation deprives students of support who, according to their actual situation, but also in the meaning of the law, have a full right to need-based learning support. As legislators, we considered it our duty to initiate a draft as soon as possible in order to correct a gross error in the law. As you can see, the draft was launched on 11 September and today, almost 70 days later, we have only reached the first reading of the draft. It took one month for the government to formulate its position, the Ministry of Education took more than a week to prepare a letter to the Committee on Culture, and a few weeks have also taken place in the Committee on Culture. It is not known, unfortunately, how many students who applied for the first round of applications were deprived of need-based support only because there is a conceptual gap in the law. Then what is it? The need-based education allowance shall take into account the monthly income of the applicant's family members. An applicant shall be entitled to benefit if the income per family member in the previous calendar year was less than EUR 280. According to the current law, the applicant's parents, underage siblings and half-sisters are regarded as family members. It's all clear. In addition, siblings and half-sisters up to 24 years of age are considered to be members of the applicant's family who, in turn, meet the conditions set out in the law when studying in either vocational school, university or doctoral studies. That's the point of the gap. I will give an example of a particular case. In September, it became clear that the need-based grant applicant has a sister who is studying in upper secondary school but who is no longer a minor but has already celebrated her 18th birthday. According to the current law, the sister was declared to have left the family, an outlaw, and the number of family members fell from five to four, resulting in an increase in the student's average income above the ceiling, and the student received a no response to his needs-based application for support. That's a pretty lame story. With the bill, we seek to correct this error by adding to the relevant provision of the law a clarification that counts as members of the family of the applicant for the need-based education allowance, but nurses-brothers and half-brothers who are studying in upper secondary school and who have no income. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U78	Thank you very much. I'm sorry to interrupt too soon, but 'ongi all' sounded like the end of the speech. Thank you very much, Mr Mart Meri. There are no questions for you. Lauri Luige, member of the Committee on Culture, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U79	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, was that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U80	It was all an explanation. I would add so much that, during the debate in the Commission, a representative of the Ministry of Education stated that other problems have emerged in the implementation of the law. We have an agreement that the Ministry will submit improvements to the draft after the completion of the first reading. That's it. Thank you! I hope that the draft procedure will continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Cultural Commission discussed the draft law amending the Study Grants and Student Loan Act 478 at its meeting on 5 November. In addition to the members of the committee, Kaur Kittus, lawyer of the legal department of the Ministry of Education and Research, and Janne Pukk, head of the department of higher education, as well as Johann Peetre, vice-president of the Board of the Association of Estonian Student Unions, participated in the meeting. In short, as my colleague Mart Meri has already explained, the objective of the draft is to consider non-minor upper secondary school members of the same household to be members of the student's family when determining the need-based education allowance. A brief discussion took place in the Commission. The position of the Government of the Republic is that the idea of the draft is correct and the problem should be resolved, but the government does not support it in this form. According to officials of the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry analyses the results of the first call for applications for needs-based study grants. On the basis of this analysis, it will be decided how to proceed exactly. As Mart Meri said, perhaps there are other circumstances that should be taken into account. According to the Ministry, this problem could be resolved as a whole. A representative of the Student Association supported the draft, but proposed to narrow the pool of students who could receive support with young people studying in inpatient studies, as those who are already working in upper secondary schools can also study in non-statorial studies. The Committee on Culture took a positive view of this draft. It was decided by consensus that this draft had to be dealt with further. The Committee on Culture proposed to the Assembly that this draft be placed on the plenary agenda by today's 19 November. The Committee on Culture also proposes to the Assembly that the first reading of the draft be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 working days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U82	Thank you very much, Mr Luik. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 478 amendments. a 4 December at 5.15 p.m. The first reading of Bill 478 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U83	The first reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Consumer Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like a presentation by the Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur, of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U84	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As most of the drafts started at the Ministry of Justice, Bill No 505, the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Consumer Protection Act, is a very good draft. For the sake of history and the verbatim, I would like to mention the formal reason for the draft. In particular, Directive 2011/83/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on consumer rights must be transposed into Estonian law. This Directive in turn amended earlier Council Directive 93/13/EEC and Directive 1999/44/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council repealing Council Directive 85/577/EEC and Directive 97/7/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. So much for the uniform, and now I'm gonna start talking about the content. In essence, the directive creates a new regulation for off-premises contracts and distance contracts based on the principle of maximum harmonisation. The aim of the Directive is to reduce the regulatory fragmentation driven by the principle of minimum harmonisation. This is because, so far, Member States have transposed Directive 97/7/EC on the protection of consumers in distance contracts and Directive 85/577/EEC on the protection of consumers in off-premises contracts in different ways into national law, since Member States have generally considered it necessary to provide consumers with better protection than those provided for in the Directive. In addition to reducing legal fragmentation, the Directive aims to improve and modernise existing consumer legislation and therefore the amendments to the proposal also aim to increase the level of consumer protection. Most of the changes resulting from the Directive concern the regulation of distance contracts or off-premises contracts. At the same time, some aspects also harmonise issues concerning all consumer contracts. Here are the main changes. Firstly, there is a substantial increase in the obligation on the undertaking to provide the consumer with information on the goods or services before the conclusion of the contract. The Law of Obligations Act is supplemented by a general pre-contractual notice clause applicable to all consumer contracts, which obliges an undertaking to provide the consumer with information on the identity of the undertaking, the essential characteristics of the contract, the price, payment, the use of remedies and other such. The draft will also create a comprehensive pre-contractual obligation for off-premises contracts for which there has been no such regulation. The pre-contractual notification of contracts concluded through the Communication Instrument shall be supplemented and updated. Therefore, once the Directive has been transposed, consumers should be made more aware of the content of the contract they conclude. Secondly, the consumer's right to withdraw from distance or off-premises contracts is specified. The period for exercising the consumer's right of withdrawal (14 days) and the content (right to withdraw without giving cause) remain unchanged compared to the current regulation, but the obligations arising from the debt relationship of the withdrawal are harmonised. It is thus made clear that the parties must return the goods and return the funds received within 30 days at the latest. It is also clear who, and to what extent, must bear the costs and losses incurred by the withdrawal. The regulation of the starting point of the withdrawal period has also been clarified. The Regulation of the Minister of Justice also establishes a model withdrawal guide and standard withdrawal form under the Directive, aimed at simplifying the situation of consumers and businesses in relation to the right of withdrawal. Standard forms will also make it easier for the consumer to exercise the right of withdrawal and it will be easier for the trader to comply with the information obligation. There is also a clearer definition of contracts where the consumer does not have the right of withdrawal. For example, within 14 days, you cannot withdraw from a contract that has as its object perishable goods, such as perishable foodstuffs, or from a contract that has as its object items that can no longer be returned for hygiene reasons after the package has been opened, such as cosmetic products. The purpose of this amendment is to balance the interests of the business with those of the consumer. Thirdly, the term "home door contract' used to date in the Law of Obligations Act is replaced by the term "outside business premises contract'. The amendment is made because the definition of the concept resulting from the new Directive is substantially broader. An off-premises contract within the meaning of the Directive shall cover all contracts awarded or pre-contractual negotiations outside the business premises of the undertaking, irrespective of whether the initiation of the contract has come from the consumer or the undertaking. Fourthly, I would like to point out that the draft restricts the right of an undertaking to charge different charges to the consumer. It is stipulated that the charge for the use of a certain payment instrument (e.g. a payment card, cash) must not exceed the costs incurred by the trader as a result of the use of such a payment instrument. It is also prohibited to require a premium for the consumer to call the company's telephone number if the trader allows the consumer to contact him by telephone on matters relating to the contract. The consumer should pay only on the basis of the standard tariff for communications services. In addition, it provides that the consumer cannot accept the costs of an indirect declaration of intent, silence or any other act demanded by the undertaking for the fulfilment of its ancillary obligations. In particular, this precludes the use of default or pre-filled options that the consumer has to reject, for example by deleting certain ticks or crosses from a cell on the website. As a last important amendment, I would point out that the draft also complements the regulation on the transfer of risk of accidental destruction and damage in sales contracts. It is stipulated that, when the case is transported, the obligation to transfer it to the purchaser shall be deemed to be fulfilled when the case is transferred to the buyer. The exception is only in cases where the contracting authority has itself designated the carrier or concluded a contract with him without the seller having brokered it or referring it to that possibility. In such a case, the obligation to transfer the case to the purchaser shall be deemed to be fulfilled when the case is transferred to the carrier. At this point, let me conclude the presentation of this draft. As a representative of the Government of the Republic, I am certainly pleased to support the decision taken by the Committee on Legal Affairs to conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U85	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. There are no questions for you. I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, vice-chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U86	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft law on Monday, 11 November. We started at 11:00. The session was chaired by Marko Pomerants. Kalle Laanet, Andres Anvelt, Igor Gräzin, Kalle Jents, Marika Tuus-Laul, Neeme Suur, Peeter Võsa and Priit Sibul, who was the alternate member of Siim Kabritsa, took part in the debate. Counselors Linnar Liivamägi and Raini Laide were also present. Valdo Randpere was absent from the commission. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, Madis Timpson, Minister of Justice, Kati Taitse-Pärkna, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, and Einar Hillep. Thea Palm, Head of the Consumer and Competition Policy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, was also present at the discussion. The Minister of Justice presented the purpose and content of the draft law to the Commission. He explained that the draft proposal intended to transpose the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on consumer rights, the amendments of which concerned in particular two types of consumer contracts: off-premises contracts and distance contracts. The main changes proposed by the draft law were as follows: The trader's obligation to provide the consumer with information on the goods or services before the conclusion of the contract shall be increased. The possibilities for both the consumer and the trader to exercise the consumer's right of withdrawal will be simplified, with more situations in which the consumer cannot exercise the 14-day right of withdrawal. The level of consumer protection will be raised. Indrek Niklus, Head of the Department of Private Law of the Ministry of Justice, also provided explanations on the draft. So what was decided? Firstly, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 19 November 2013 (consensually), but as we know (I say this for the sake of the verbatim), today is already 20 November, i.e. the procedure for this draft has shifted to today. Secondly, it was decided to propose the termination of the first reading (consensually). Thirdly, it was decided to propose a deadline of 29 November 2013 at 4 p.m. for the submission of amendments. Fourthly, it was decided to send the draft to second reading when the first reading was completed by 11 December 2013 and to propose that the second reading be terminated and that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is completed by 12 December 2013. It was decided to appoint Mr Kalle Laane as rapporteur (consensus). Of course, the decision was also made to propose the adoption of this bill as a law, which was also a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U87	Thank you very much, Mr Kalle Laane. There are no questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 505 amendments. 16 a.m. on 29 November 2004 First reading of Bill 505 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U88	The first reading of the draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Mr Pevkuri, Minister of Justice, for the presentation of the speaker's desk again!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U89	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We can manage this draft briefly because it is quite minor changes to the Estonian legal order. Of course, that too is a really good bill. But first of all, I'm talking about the formal side. This is a similar case of transposition of a directive of the European Union, namely Council Directive 2013/1/EU, such a beautiful number. This directive concerns elections to the European Parliament and provides that the respective authorities of the Member State of residence are to inform the Member State of origin of the application for a candidate in order to verify whether the right to stand as a candidate in the European Parliament in the Member State of origin has not been deprived of the right to stand as a candidate. The home Member State shall, after receiving that notification, provide the Member State of residence with the relevant information within a time limit which enables the admissibility of the application to be assessed effectively. In order to establish a verification mechanism in national law, it is necessary to amend the European Parliament Election Act in Estonia and to introduce an obligation to provide information to the administrative authorities. The amendments are in many respects of a technical nature and do not affect the right to stand as a candidate, as its content is not altered. In order to be able to verify the right to stand as a candidate, the draft requires a citizen of the European Union to provide information on the date and place of birth and the address of the last place of residence in the Member State of origin. When an application for a European Union citizen's application is received by the Election Commission of the Republic, he shall immediately forward it to the competent administrative authority of the home Member State. The institution of the home Member State shall then communicate to the Election Commission of the Republic within five working days whether or not that person has the right to stand as a candidate. The electoral committee must also inform the institution of another Member State of the existence or absence of the right to stand as a candidate of Estonian citizens if such a wish is passed on to them. The electoral committee shall receive the relevant information from the population register and the Defence Forces, who shall be able to examine whether the person has the right to apply to the European Parliament on the basis of entries in the register. In view of Parliament's tight working schedule and the forthcoming elections to the European Parliament, the directive provides, in particular with a view to the elections to the European Parliament, for the deadline of 28 January 2014 for the transposition of the rules in order to allow for a sufficiently long period of notice. We support the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to conclude the first reading of the draft. We are certainly also prepared to support the amendments already discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in preparation for the first reading, which were the result, in particular, of the proposals made by the Election Committee of the Republic. But the rapporteur for the committee, the honourable member of the Riigikogu Neeme Suur, who will thus receive his crossfires as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will tell more about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U90	Thank you very much, Minister. There's a question for you too. Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. With regard to this draft, it is interesting to know how common the practice in the European Union is that it is not applying in its own country, but in another Member State. Is it possible to give an overview?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U92	Thank you. We have not asked the Member States for a comprehensive overview. However, remembering the previous elections to the European Parliament, an Irish citizen applied in Estonia. It is also known that Ari Vatanen, a Finnish member of the Euro Parliament, applied in France and was elected there. This certainly concerns more Central European countries with closer contacts and more cross-border contacts. There may be a politician in one Member State or another equally known on the other side of the border. In this sense, I consider this change to be very reasonable. The essence of the draft is, in fact, that people are being taken away from the burden. In the meantime, the candidate had to submit all the documents so he could apply. However, this competence exists in the Member States. In fact, it is very reasonable that if a Finnish citizen comes to Estonia, for example, and says that he wants to stand as a candidate here in the European Parliament elections, then the national authorities will continue to communicate on this issue. In Estonia, this institution is the Election Commission of the Republic. But we live, see if and how much this practice will spread in the future. It is likely that this change will still have little effect in the elections to the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U93	No further questions. Thank you once again, Minister. Please report to Neeme Suur, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U94	Madam President! I would like to thank the Minister for a smooth introduction to my presentation. The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on Tuesday 12 November. a. Deniss Borodich, Andrei Korobeinik, Andres Herkel, Indrek Saar, Mart Nutt, Peep Aru, Priit Toobal, Tarmo Tamm, Väino Linde, as well as adviser-secretarial director Erle Preveer, consultant Pille Naar and also waitress, took part in the discussion. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, Kristen Kanarik, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, Alo Heinsalu, President of the Election Commission of the Republic, and Priit Vinkel, Head of the Elections Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu were invited to the meeting. The minister introduced us to the bill. I will go over the substance of the draft once again. In the past, the person himself had to prove to the other Member State that he was entitled to apply to the European Parliament. According to the draft, Estonia will have a system in place that if the Election Commission of the Republic receives a declaration from a citizen of another Member State that it wishes to stand as a candidate in Estonia, the Election Commission of the Republic will forward the information request to the person's country of residence and this country must give a reply within five working days. He or she must provide information as to whether such a person exists and whether there are no conditions to exclude him or her from applying. Thus, the burden of proof shifts from citizen to cross-border communication. Alo Heinsalu, President of the Election Commission of the Republic, said that the Election Commission is ready to assume the responsibility of this change. At the same time, he had some suggestions on the wording of the draft. For example, the draft states that a citizen of the European Union is adding a statement to the application documents that he or she has not been deprived of his or her right to stand as a candidate in the country of origin. This imposes an obligation on a person to submit two applications, while it is a single sentence that could actually be included in the application. One suggestion is that the stand-alone application should be cancelled and the corresponding statement should be included in the application itself. However, the main debate took place in the Commission on the deadline for replying to the five working days. If an inquiry in another country has to be answered within five days, then the question arises as to whether the time will actually be answered and whether this information will arrive. With regard to Estonia in particular, we will have five days between submitting applications to stand as a candidate in the European Parliament elections and registering them. If the information is not available within this time period, there is a need to register the candidate conditionally, which can be revoked later if it turns out that he or she cannot apply. This led to concrete proposals from the President of the Election Commission of the Republic. Members of the Commission also asked questions. One question was whether the requirements for standing in different Member States would be aligned with the transposition of the Directive. We have received the answer that there is no harmonisation of requirements at the moment. If a person is applying in another Member State, he or she must meet both the conditions of his or her home country and the conditions of the country in which he or she is applying. The question was also whether the transposition of the directive would be urgent. We have received the answer that the deadline for the directive's entry into force should be at the beginning of January. The question then was that if Estonia had established a practice that the electoral laws would not be amended a year before the elections, but there would be much less time until the European Parliament elections to make this change, could it not happen that the President would not declare this law? But in the course of the debate we expressed hope that this would not happen, because the draft will, however, extend the rights of Estonian citizens rather than limit them. There was also the question that, if the directive was adopted already on 20 December 2012, why Estonia is doing this enforcement a year later, perhaps only now. The reply of the Ministry was that the preparation of the draft has been carried out longer and because there is a lot of work, it was only now that it was achieved that it would come to the Riigikogu with the draft. The Commission adopted consensual decisions to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 19 November, to propose that the first reading be closed and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments by 29 November. 4 p.m. Neeme Suur, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed as rapporteur by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U95	Thank you very much, Mr Neeme Suur. This is a question for my colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U96	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I couldn't help but think of the term 'conditional registration'. I do not have the European Parliament's election law in front of me here, and I cannot see if there really is some kind of legislative provision that sets out a conditional registration.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U97	In theory, there are two options: not to register or register the candidate conditionally. Conditional registration means that the candidate will be registered, but if within that period, until the lists are definitively confirmed, a fact becomes apparent that he or she cannot apply (this may happen if a Member State does not reply to the enquiry electronically but instead sends a letter that will arrive three days later and the necessary information will also be received later) it will be possible to cancel the registration afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U98	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U99	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Different countries have different speeds; northern Europe has one pace; southern Europe has a different one. For example, Italy is quite well known for its bureaucracy. There is even an expression such as the Italian strike, which means simply processing under Italian law. Thus, even if the question is submitted electronically, the answer may come on the sixth, tenth or twentieth day. What happens if, regardless of the candidate, the answer comes very late, for example on the fifteenth day, but the candidate was conditionally registered and apparently his candidacy was withdrawn on the sixth day? How do you interpret that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U100	We did not get that precise in the Commission's debate. I, too, cannot give such an exact answer at this point either. However, the President of the Republic Election Commission expressed the idea that, if the European Parliament Election Act currently provides for a five-day gap between the submission of applications and the deadline for their registration, we could extend this distinction to 10 days. At this time, communication between countries should still have more or less taken place and it could be ruled out that someone should be registered conditionally and subsequently cancelled.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U101	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Neeme Suur. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 520 amendments. 16 a.m. on 29 November 2004 First reading of Bill 520 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U102	The next item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia' tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I would like the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Enn Frontland.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U103	Ladies and gentlemen, At its extraordinary session on 14 November, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. This draft concerns the amendment of the Estonian delegation to the Baltic Assembly. Aivar Riisalu is proposed by the political group to replace Aadu Black, who has left the Riigikogu. No amendments were tabled by 11 a.m. on 18 November. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 18 November, the following was decided by consensus: to propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 19 November (as we know today is already 20 November) and to propose that the first reading of the draft be completed and the draft adopted as a decision. The draft of the Committee on Foreign Affairs at first reading is before you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U104	Thank you very much, Mr Enn Frontland. There are no questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. As my colleague has already said, no amendments have been tabled to this draft decision. We can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will final vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia' 539. Please vote! 72 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed and 1 member of the Riigikogu abstained. The draft decision has been adopted as a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for silence during the vote in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U105	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Forest Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the final vote draft law amending the Forest Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 463. Please vote! (meeting of 56 members of the Riigikogu), 2 votes against and 2 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U106	The next item is the third reading of the Bill 501 of Amendment to the Investment Funds Act, Pensions Act and Social Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the final vote, although it seems to me that some people have disappeared somewhere. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote on the final vote on the draft law amending the Law on Investment Funds, funded pensions and the Social Tax Act 501 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 66 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one voted against and no one abstained. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U107	The third reading of the draft law amending § 3331 of the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending § 3331 of the Law on State Fees, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 494. Please vote! 49 members of the Riigikogu voted against, 7 against and 3 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U108	The second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, entitled "Accepting the State's 2012 Annual Report' begins. For a presentation, please, the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you a briefing on the bill, which is number 476. This is the second reading of the draft decision 'According to the State's 2012 Annual Summary Report'. The draft was discussed by the Commission. a on 12 November. No amendments to the draft were received by the deadline. Let me briefly remind you of the purpose of the draft. The purpose of presenting the annual report of the state is to enable the Riigikogu to fulfil the function of controlling the government, to give the government the opportunity to explain its activities during the accounting year and to provide the Riigikogu with the information necessary for making new budgetary decisions. In the course of the procedure, the Commission reviewed the activity report in the summary report and the consolidated and non-consolidated annual accounts of the state, as well as further information about the public and government sector and local authorities and the National Audit Office's control report. The National Audit Office has concluded in the results of its audit that the 2012 annual accounts are substantially correct and there are no significant errors in the implementation of the state budget. On the basis of the report and the discussion, the Commission decided to approve the 2012 Annual Summary Report of the State prepared by the Ministry of Finance and submitted by the Government of the Republic. I repeat that no amendments to the draft have been received. The Commission unanimously decided to make the following proposals: to send a second reading of the draft to the agenda by Wednesday, 20 November, to close the second reading and to put it to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U110	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? Please, Mr Neeme the Great! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U111	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start with where my colleague Sester ended up. The National Audit Office considers the annual accounts to be substantially correct, i.e. the report correctly and fairly reflects the state's financial position and the economic result and cash flows of the reporting period that ended. According to the National Audit Office, the most important economic transactions of the state have also been carried out in accordance with the State Budget Act and the State Budget Act 2012 and the Amending Act. If you stick to this passage, it'll be really fun. But let's go a little further from this paragraph and read the lines that are written in a slightly smaller letter in the National Audit Office's report. First of all, we read the Accounting Act, which was adopted on 20 November 2002. The Accounting Act lays down the basic principles for drawing up the annual accounts, such as the principle of comprehension and disclosure. The principle of comprehension means that the information to be disclosed must be presented in such a way as to be comprehensive and unambiguous to the users who have sufficient financial knowledge to understand the report. The disclosure principle is defined as follows: "The accounting statement shall provide all information enabling the accounting officer to have a true and fair view of the financial position, economic performance and cash flows'. Well, with this right and fair view and comprehension, there are really big problems! In the report of the National Audit Office, we also read that, as in previous years, there are still problems with understanding the report on the implementation of the state budget. In particular, neither the presentation of the report nor the changes made to the annual structure of the State Budget Act allow for this understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, There is such a thing as the international standard of public sector accounting, which Estonia is obliged to respect. According to this standard, the budget adopted by Parliament, the final budget and the actual use of the budget must be presented in a comparable manner to that adopted by Parliament. It is also necessary to clarify the reasons for the substantial differences between the proposed budget and the actual use of the budget. I have looked carefully, but these differences have not been found in our annual report. According to the 2012 State Budget Act approved by the Riigikogu, 476 million euros were planned for the expenses of the Ministry of the Environment. Instead, in the State Budget Implementation Report, the Ministry's final budget for expenditure is EUR 278 million. The biggest difference is in the grant line, which shows that the difference between the budget of the grants approved by the Riigikogu and the actual receipts was about 200 million euros. Where almost EUR 200 million was shifted from the final budget of the Ministry of the Environment and what has happened with this money, i.e. where, how and how much money has been used, the annual report does not answer that question. If you ask the Minister of Finance why such major changes in the budget are not brought to the Riigikogu for decision, the answer is that this is not required by law. This is how the first column of the budget implementation report, 'Preliminary budget', followed by 'Final budget'. If the difference between these two lines is a couple of thousand euros, then it's like nothing's going on. However, if the difference is almost half the size of the Ministry's original budget and the order of magnitude is in tens or hundreds of millions of euros, then the question arises as to why approve the Ministry's budget in the Riigikogu at all, if it is possible to move this money somewhere else later. The power of the law by which the Riigikogu approves the budget for next year will be completely incomprehensible. When the Minister was asked why the report did not meet the international standard of public accounting, the Minister simply replied that it did. For example, EUR 600 million not spent in 2011 has been transferred to the 2012 state budget, with EUR 431 million transferred to 2013 at the end of 2012 (predominantly investments and grants). Why has the planned amounts not been used up within the budget? Is it possible that the amounts transferred from one financial year to another are the same projects that have been dragged down year after year? What is the money that is transferred from one year to another, and if it is a stretch of projects, what is the reason for the stretching? There are many unanswered questions that we do not find in the report. If we look at the textual part of the report, or the activity report, we are shocked to see that it relies on only a few known data. The report states in black and white that only half of the 85 targets set for 2012 can be estimated on the basis of published data, i.e. 47 targets, and four out of the seven priorities of the Government of the Republic cannot yet be estimated. That's what the report says. How can a report be brought before the Riigikogu if we are unable to assess the substantive developments, because it is not possible to evaluate them? However, the report is here before us to confirm. Ladies and gentlemen, We must pay very close attention to our public finances and our economy. 'The money's fine! ' It must not be just a slogan for the election, it must have its own solid content. There is currently no specific content in the recapitulative statement of the previous financial year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U112	Thank you very much. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U113	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to my colleague Neeme Suur, I think my speech will be very short, as the faction of the Estonian Centre Party also relies on the work done by the National Audit Office to assess. I'm not gonna go over what sounded like a few minutes ago on this remote. However, I do make some observations: there are references in the summary report to unsolicited procurement procedures, it appears that procurement procedures are not always properly documented, that all the information requested was not always published in the public procurement register, that misleading information was provided late, that there were no procurement procedures or that they were incomplete. It all shows that our economy is somewhat, you could say, messy. If state agencies and ministries are unable to meet the requirements of the procurement procedure, what could be required of local authorities? Secondly, I draw attention to the principles of recognising the value of state forests which, according to the National Audit Office (and we agree with this), are not suitable for state assets. In particular, according to the method established by the General Accounting Code of the State, the book value of the state forest is determined only through the value of the planned forest and does not take into account the real value of the state assets and changes in assets. If we tried to do this in our business (those who have business, of course), it would be unacceptable, but the state will do so. I want to talk about one more thing that hasn't been mentioned here today. In 2012, the principle of the State Property Act was not always respected in the use of state assets, in order to increase the benefits and prevent the State from suffering losses. These deficiencies were found in the contracts concluded for the use of careers, in the provision of housing and in the granting of a loan to AS Estonian Air. All of this, in addition to what was in the previous speech and which I am not going to repeat, gives us the conviction that we cannot support the approval of this summary report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U114	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft decision to a final vote of 476. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic to approve the State's consolidated report for the financial year 2012. Please take a stand and vote. The European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 46 votes to 20, with no abstentions. Draft 476 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U115	The next item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2013 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you a briefing on the bill bearing number 514. This is the second reading of the Draft Amending Act 2013 on the State Budget Act. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at its meetings on 12 and 18 November. No amendments were received from the political groups, committees or members of the Riigikogu by the deadline of 13 November. The Committee on Finance, in cooperation with the ministries, produced two amendments. The first includes internal transfers of funds and the second introduces a provision on the entry into force of the Act, i.e. the law will enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the State. Explanations of the amendments can be found in the list of amendments. The total volume of all changes is close to EUR 500000 and most of them relate to investment in IT systems. The change in the area of government of the Ministry of Culture is due to a change in the structure, namely the creation of a foundation. In addition, a technical amendment to § 4 (1) is made. The following consensual decisions were taken by the Commission: to put the draft on the agenda by Wednesday, 20 November 2013 and to propose that the second reading be closed and that the deadline for the submission of amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 27 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U117	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thought Kalev Lillo wanted to negotiate, but apparently not. No negotiations. Two amendments to the draft have been tabled, and we will review them. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Amendment 2 is also from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 514 amendments. 1 p.m. on November 27, 2004. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 514 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U118	Our item No 11 is the second reading of draft law 460 on sworn translator initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Kalle Jents, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft twice. We discussed this first on 5 November when a number of good officials from the Ministry of Justice took part in the Commission meeting. At this meeting of the Commission, the Commission proposed five amendments. The first piece of information was that information on the profession acquired abroad by a sworn translator would be placed on the website of the Ministry of Justice. The content of the second amendment was that the Minister of Justice would issue new professional certificates within one month of the entry into force of the Act. The other three amendments amend the wording and numbering of the draft. At its meeting on 5 November, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously took the following decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 20 November, i.e. today, and when the second reading is completed today, we propose that the draft be sent to third reading on 21 November. The Committee on Legal Affairs reconvened on 11 November and amended its decision that we are proposing not to send the draft to third reading tomorrow, 21 November, but on 11 December. All members of the Commission were also in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U120	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U121	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I wanted to ask you at first reading, but I forgot. Now it's in the eye again. The question is § 6 'A side action of a sworn translator'. He shall be allowed any ancillary activity which does not impair his impartiality, dignity or credibility in connection with the summons of a sworn translator. I was trying to figure out what this could be like, which could damage the credibility of someone who's working on technical work, but couldn't figure it out. Give an example, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U122	Thank you. Any more questions? There are no more questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Let us examine the amendments. All these have been done by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Amendment 1 is from the lead committee; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 2 is from the lead committee; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 3 is from the lead committee; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 4 is from the lead committee; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 5 is from the lead committee; the proposal is to be fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 460 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U123	Thank you. I must say that we did not discuss such interesting combinations in the Commission. No one raised this question in this way, and it is very difficult for me to begin to think about what I think might be such a side action. I guess I could think of some, but I don't think it makes any sense. What was in the author's mind, unfortunately, we didn't notice asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U124	Our 12th item today is the second reading of the draft law amending the Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Annely Akkermann, member of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U125	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The draft law amending the Water Act has two aims: to modernise and improve the regulation of the expansion of water bodies and to bring the Water Act into line with the Water Framework Directive and the Groundwater Protection Directive of the European Union. The draft narrows the scope of land or water areas in need of protection under the Water Act. There are more stringent environmental requirements and restrictions than usual. Until now, a body of water used or intended to be used for drinking water, which essentially means the whole territory of Estonia, has been considered to be in need of protection. When adopted as a law, stricter environmental requirements will be introduced for water grips used or intended to be used for the abstraction of drinking water and for their sanitary protected areas. The provisions relating to water expansion in the draft concern in particular the processing of specific water usage permits in a more flexible way, reducing administrative burdens. Here is the procedure that took place between the two readings. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 September 2013, the first reading was completed on 25 September 2013 and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 9 October 2013. No amendments to the draft were tabled. Between first and second readings, the draft has been dealt with three times at Commission meetings: on 21 October and 11 and 18 November. On 21 October, representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Estonian Veskivaramu NGO took part in the meeting and made their proposals to amend the draft. At the meetings of the Commission on 11 and 18 November, the representatives of the Ministry of the Environment presented their proposals for amending the draft or gave an opinion on the amendments to be submitted and on compliance with the Constitution. The Commission decided to propose eight amendments to the draft. The first amendment demarcates that the owner of the barrier must guarantee the conservation of the fish stock only at the barrier. The second amendment sets out the definition of water building and obliges the owner or holder of the barrier to ensure a minimum ecological flow after the water building in a natural current bed. The third amendment sets out the concept of minimum ecological flow. The fourth amendment extends the means of guaranteeing the passage of fish, which means that it is not essential to build access to fish to ensure passage, but can also use other means, such as opening shelters for migration. The fifth amendment empowers the Minister for the Environment to establish a methodology for determining the minimum ecological flow rate. The sixth amendment abolishes the provision of the Water Act, which makes public the providers of vital services in flood risk areas. If the bill is adopted as a law, this information will remain in the use of the relevant authorities for internal security reasons only. The seventh amendment provides that building charges shall not apply to buildings which have not been permanently connected to the shores built in public water before 1 January 2010. The eighth amendment complements the draft law amending the Water Act in such a way that construction permits can be applied for until 31 December 2016 for buildings not permanently connected to the public water body before 1 January 2010. At its meeting on 11 November, the Committee on the Environment decided to propose to the Riigikogu that the second reading of the draft 467 be completed and that when the second reading of the draft is completed, the draft be sent to the third reading. That's all I got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U126	Thank you. Any questions? Please, Jaanus Tamkivi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U127	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, This is certainly a very important draft in the area of water use and expansion. But what were the most acute issues in these discussions? How do you feel about these companies and individuals who are interested in expansion being satisfied with this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U128	The most acute discussions were about expansion. Namely, one of the well-known expansives in Estonia, AS Raju, who owns Sindi välja, has provided the reasons why the draft law is contrary to the Constitution: the draft restricts the use and possession of property and imposes unreasonable obligations on the owner. At the same time, NGO Eesti Veskivaramu also wanted to specify, in connection with the expansion, that it would be clearly determined that the owner of the barrier is obliged to protect the fish only on the barrier, ensuring access to them, and also where the minimum flow rate should be assessed. It was agreed that the amount of minimum flow would be assessed in the river's natural current bed. There were also amendments of a technical nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U129	Any more questions? No further questions. Thank you, Annely Akkermann! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. Let us examine the amendments. These have all been done by the Committee on the Environment. Amendment 1, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 2, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 3, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 4, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 5, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 6, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 7, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 8, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 467 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U130	The next item is the second reading of the 13th item, Draft Law 209 and 469 on the amendment of the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I ask Andres Anvelt, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to present his speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U131	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me explain a little bit about the two digits of this bill. In spring 2012, the Social Democratic Party Group launched a draft law on supplementing the Penal Code 209, the first reading of which was completed in this Chamber on 5 June 2012. The draft we tabled concerned the criminalisation of the purchase of sex from minors. This was largely supported by the Ministry of Justice at the time. There were some drafting problems, but this draft was discussed in different forms with interest groups, professional representatives. Since the government's work plan also included the amendment of the Penal Code, as a result of the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which also speaks of analogous types of crime, the first reading of the Government of the Republic's draft 469 was completed this autumn. On 11 November, the Committee on Legal Affairs adopted a decision to merge these essentially similar drafts 209 and 469. The decision was consensual. If we go to the amendments, it must be said that Amendment 1 provides for the merging of two drafts, most of which is based on the text of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Amendment 2 concerns terms such as 'child prostitution'. Our group has already proposed, during the negotiations in the Committee on Legal Affairs, not to label minors involved in this process by the name of a prostitute. This amendment was also supported. The principles and background of our draft and of the Government of the Republic also overlaped as to why this needs to be done. Amendment 3 required that § 8 be deleted from the text of the draft law. This is a formal proposal, since the new deadline for the entry into force of the Act on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities is only 1 July 2014, which is why many of the provisions of this draft could not have entered into force. Amendment 4 is also editorial in substance and improves the repeal of the provision of basic school and upper secondary school law in the text of draft 469. On 11 November, the Commission decided to submit a draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 20 November and to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the second reading be closed. When the second reading of the draft is completed today, we will be proposing a third reading of the draft on 21 November. As I go back in time, the amendments were supported by the Commission in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U132	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Let us examine the amendments. All these have been done by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Amendment 1, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 2, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 3, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 4, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of drafts 209 and 469 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U133	Our 14th item on the agenda today is the first reading of the draft law amending the Traffic Act and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. We have received a letter from the Government stating that both draft 508 and the next draft 499 on the agenda at first reading will be presented by the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, and not by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, as was previously announced. I'm asking for Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Traffic Act and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure transposes Directive 2011/82/EU, which facilitates the cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences. This Directive entered into force on 7 November 2013 and is not applicable to vehicles registered in some Member States (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Denmark). The draft concerns two areas: cross-border exchange of information and simplification, recognition of vehicles and products intended for them, verification of type approvals issued and their repeal. Firstly, I am talking about cross-border exchange of information. It aims to improve road safety and ensure equal treatment of drivers. This will be done by facilitating the imposition of penalties for traffic offences, regardless of the Member State in which the vehicle is registered. For the first time, the claimant will be able to obtain data on the owners, responsible users or users of vehicles registered in other Member States from the competent authorities of other Member States through the Road Administration through automated searches. The draft also establishes a written alert procedure to deal with cases detected by the automated traffic surveillance system in Estonia. This takes place on similar grounds as in the case of traffic offences committed with vehicles registered in Estonia. Thus, by learning the identity of the offender, the culprit has the opportunity to draw up a warning fine. The measures taken will help to calm traffic and improve road safety, as drivers of vehicles registered in other EU Member States will no longer be identified or punished. Secondly, the provisions on the granting of approvals, the verification of approvals issued and their revocation. They are primarily intended for companies manufacturing vehicles and products intended for them in Estonia who wish to be recognised by the Road Administration or whose production has been recognised by the Road Administration. The Road Administration has issued more and more type approvals from year to year, valid throughout the European Union. 22 approvals were issued in 2011, 63 in 2012 and 61 in June 2012. The purpose of the regulation is to give the Public Road Administration the opportunity to withdraw the recognition granted or to refuse recognition if it has been obtained or is expected to be obtained by fraud or other unfair means. The accompanying measures will help prevent the manufacture of non-compliant products, prevent the introduction of such products and facilitate their decommissioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U135	Thank you very much. Any questions for the Minister? There are no questions. I would like to ask for a co-presentation of the Chair of the Vice-Chair of the Economic Commission, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U136	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this draft law on Monday 11 November. a. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts was invited to the meeting of the Commission, including Ain Tatter, Head of the Road and Rail Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Sander Salmu, Head of Transport and Traffic Administration, and Veiko Kombusaar, Deputy Head of the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. They presented the content and objectives of the draft and replied to the additional questions. There were a lot of questions. For example, there was an interest in what would improve with the bill. It was said that it would be better for Member States to share information when traffic offences are committed within the territory of the European Union in order to identify the person responsible and impose a warning fine on him. For this purpose, traffic cameras have been installed in Estonia, which, in the event of an infringement being fixed, transmit the data to the culprit, the Police and Border Guard Board. In the case of a vehicle registered in another European Union country, the Police and Border Guard Board will have the opportunity to obtain data on the owner of a vehicle registered in another Member State through the Road Administration. The Police and Border Guard Board can then carry out a warning procedure on the basis of these data, as in the case of vehicles registered in Estonia. Currently, about one third of fixed infringements of speed cameras are committed by foreign vehicles, about half of which are registered in the European Union and half in Russia. However, if a vehicle registered in Estonia has committed a fixed infringement in another Member State, the Road Administration will in turn be asked for the identity of the owner of the vehicle. The directive on which the draft is based contains a long list of specific data to be transmitted to a foreign country. Secondly, it was asked whether this directive could also be used to send penalty notices to third-country vehicle owners. The answer was that this directive does not apply to third countries, but the Ministry of the Interior has taken steps to clarify how third-country nationals could also be charged with warning fines. But this is not the subject of this bill. Thirdly, there was an interest in what would happen if a national of a Member State of the European Union had been sent a penalty notice but did not pay the fine. The reply was that the penalty notice would be sent to the person whose data is in the register. If a person does not pay a fine and justifies it by not driving that car, he or she will be obliged to provide the identity of the person driving the car. If that person also fails to respond, it is possible to send an official request for legal aid to the Member State, but it is necessary to consider whether the amount of the fine is sufficient to spend additional resources on the procedure. Fourthly, it was asked whether this was a situation where Estonians and nationals of other Member States are treated differently, since the same infringement may not be punishable by a national of another Member State, as it seems to be too expensive. It was said that when it comes to a warning fine, it is not an offence and it does not go into the criminal record, and the same is true for Estonian citizens. However, if a citizen of a Member State of the European Union is detained under a misdemeanour procedure, the Estonian State can take legal action and send a request to another Member State to recover the fine. In the case of a warning fine, this option also exists. If the Estonian citizen has not paid the warning fine, the bailiff will demand it from him; in the case of a citizen of another Member State, the hands of the Estonian bailiff will be too short. Enforcement against a national of another country is governed by the law of another country, but neither the draft nor the underlying directive deals with enforcement. Fifthly, there was an interest in the protection of personal data during the exchange of information. The answer was that the Directive provides for a minimum level of data protection to be applied by the Member States. Sixthly, it was noted that the cost of the draft was higher than the revenue and asked to comment on it. It was said that the cost line is higher because there are one-off costs inside that go to the development and development of the system. In the coming years, costs will be lower, and it is estimated that costs and expected revenues will be more or less equal. Seventhly, they wanted to know why Denmark and the United Kingdom did not have to transpose the Directive. It was said that these countries had already traded for themselves the possibility that they would not be obliged to transpose all the directives. Eighth, there was an interest in why cameras with three functions installed at Kristiine intersection in Tallinn did not work. The reason was that Tallinn has proposed to the State that the fine money received for the fixed violations of this camera be paid into the city budget, which would be contrary to current practice and principles. The city has acquired cameras with euro money, but does not want to take on the costs of running them, despite the fact that the speed camera is a means of traffic management in the city and traffic management in the municipality's territory is the responsibility of the municipality. Last but not least, it was asked whether it is theoretically possible that if a vehicle registered in Russia exceeds speed in Estonia and the speed camera fixes it, the customs authorities would submit a penalty notification to the driver of this vehicle when crossing the border and charge the fine. The answer was that it was essentially possible to send a warning letter before the border inspection post when the camera recorded speeding. However, the problem is that the owner and driver of the vehicle may not be the same person. In principle, it is also possible to apply such a solution that if a person wishes to return to Estonia and he or she has a fine claim here, we can limit his or her entry into Estonia until the fine is paid. However, this issue is also not dealt with in the framework of this draft law. Finally, it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by today's 20 November (consensually), to propose that the first reading be closed (consensually) and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 26 November. 12 noon (consensually). Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U137	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? It's all clear. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 508 amendments. a on 26 November 2010 at 12 noon. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 508 should be completed. First reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U138	Our last item today, item 15, is the first reading of the draft law amending the Public Transport Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the speech chair to Secretary of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaheri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U139	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The purpose of the draft is to make amendments to the Public Transport Act which ensure the implementation of Regulation No 181/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. This Regulation regulates the rights of passengers travelling by bus and coach and applies from 1 March 2013. The draft also addresses some of the issues raised in practice concerning direct contracts in rail traffic. Since Regulation No 181/2011 is normally only applicable to regular services when passing 250 kilometres or more, the scope of application of the Regulation in Estonia is limited. Since this distance is primarily covered by international routes in Estonia, the regulation applies mainly to them. Therefore, the impact of the regulation is generally lower than in other, larger countries. The Regulation mainly regulates compensation and assistance in the event of an accident, the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, the rights of passengers in the event of cancellation and delay, and the provision of information and the resolution of complaints. At the same time, the Regulation contains provisions that apply to smaller distances and thus to domestic lines. They regulate, in particular, the acquisition of information and the resolution of complaints relating to persons with disabilities. The enforcement of the Regulation, as well as the national supervisory authority, is ensured by the Consumer Protection Board. It also provides for misdemeanours in the event of a breach of the Regulation. Penalties are provided for not providing assistance to disabled passengers and passengers with reduced mobility at designated bus stations and buses and for not providing assistance to passengers in the event of cancelled or delayed journeys and not providing information. In addition to the provisions on passenger rights, the draft contains an explicit authorisation to conclude a direct contract under Regulation 1370/2007 on rail traffic. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U140	Thank you very much. You have questions. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I would rather have asked this question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, but since he is not there, I will present it to you. I think you have been informed about this matter concerning direct rail transport agreements. The Tallinn Administrative Court agreed in its decision with the Public Procurement Review Committee that the public service contract for passenger transport concluded between the State and South Western Railway is negligible and that the organiser of passenger train traffic should have been found by tender procedure. It is known that the Court dismissed the complaint of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications against the decision of the appeal committee. Why didn't they do all this before? The regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, to which you referred, actually came into force at the end of 2009, a period of four years. Why was this situation brought about?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U142	I can answer mainly on the basis of what the Committee on Economic Affairs has also discussed at its meeting. This draft explicitly specifies the conclusion of a direct contract. The Ministry's assessment is that direct contracts are currently permitted because such a dispute has arisen, in order to avoid or reduce such disputes in the future, the draft clarifies the relevant provision. Existing direct contracts have been concluded on the basis of the current law and the new provision does not affect the current dispute. This dispute, which is currently under way, is not even an incentive for the development of this particular draft, but has been a 'one-stop shopper'. The relevant provisions will concern future relations between the parties. Why wasn't it done before? I think you should ask the Minister for Economic Affairs during the second reading. I think that the parties have different views and the place where these disputes are resolved is a court. There's no other way to do this. The court will settle these disputes. One degree of justice has made its decision, and now we have to move on. The Ministry's position is that it has been treated in a legitimate manner. I think that this position will continue to be defended.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U143	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U144	Thank you. I would have liked to have asked my question to Minister Parts. We discussed this draft in the Commission, and this judgment came after the Commission meeting. The subject of the debate was that it was not possible to organise a competition for rail transport because it is so complex and the necessary data does not exist. Therefore, a direct contract could be allowed there for some time to find out how many passengers there are, and only then to make a competition that would not be so difficult in this case. However, I read in this judgment that the statements made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications that the award of the contested contract had been difficult and that the development of the procurement conditions had no bearing on the matter. How do you see it, is it a temporary period in the future if we want to conclude direct contracts, or is it limited in time and we are going to make competitions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U145	Thank you for your question. I have to admit, I can't answer for the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. We are talking today about transposing the directive. I have seen that there has been a debate in the Commission on the relationship between direct contracts and public competitions. You're about to introduce yourself. I would leave the question of future practice to the Minister directly responsible for this area to answer. I do not think it is right for me, as a substitute minister, to say my point of view today from this remote control.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U146	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U147	My second question concerns the transposition of the directive at bus stations. Bus stations should be ready to serve disabled people. The draft law also contains a regulation where these bus stations should be listed, but they are not there. At what point do the addresses of the bus stations appear in this regulation, and can we proceed with this draft if we do not have it in the text of the regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U148	Thank you for your question. In my opinion, in accordance with good legislative practice, every draft law should also have the necessary implementing acts as well as written down as possible, so that Parliament can get acquainted with them. I think that this regulation will also be improved in the course of the procedure for this draft, and you will certainly be able to proceed with this draft. However, I would like to stress that if, in the context of the previous item on the agenda, we dealt with a draft which really had to be dealt with quickly (which is why I am replacing the Minister for Economic Affairs here), there is certainly more time with the draft we are discussing, so the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications can also supplement this regulation. I really hope that the addresses will be written here instead of the dotted lines. There is a little more time with this draft, but with the deadline for transposition of the previous draft directive, the situation has become quite critical. I therefore agreed when the Minister for Economic Affairs asked that Parliament be prepared to listen to the presentation of the substitute minister and to proceed with the draft. But for the second reading, these addresses should definitely come up here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U149	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U150	Thank you. Dear Minister, Although you promised a great deal that a member of the Riigikogu may ask questions at second reading to the Minister, you are an experienced minister and know that there is no minister at second reading in this Chamber. I can't ask Juhan Parts. After all, the Court held that the direct contract at issue could only have been concluded if Estonia's domestic law had not had that prohibition. I ask once again, also in the interests of the verbatim report, whether this practice of direct contracts continues and, within the limits of the existing directive and its draft, you are currently legitimising the subject of direct agreements, but whether it is also fair and correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U151	Thank you for your question. It is clear that if it is justified to organise a public competition and there are preconditions for it, and this is a real competitive situation, then in public practice, Estonia has always tried to give preference to the competition. Over the last 20 years, direct agreements have been concluded on this subject. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has also provided explanations on this. Their justification has simply been that it has not been worth doing the competitions, because there have been no conditions: there have been no other means of transport, or trains, and therefore direct contracts have been concluded. The possibility of concluding direct contracts is now more specifically recorded in this draft. I repeat the point that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has also expressed in the Committee on Economic Affairs that, according to the Ministry, the possibility of concluding direct contracts also exists under current laws. In order to further reduce disputes, this draft clarifies the law. The position of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has indeed been that it has been possible to conclude direct contracts so far. Once again, since there has been no competition in essence, direct contracts have been concluded, particularly in train traffic.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U152	No further questions. Thank you very much, Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher! I would like to invite Mr Kallas, Chair of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U153	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this draft at its meeting on 11 November 2013 together with the officials of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The main issues raised were the direct agreements on rail traffic. The representatives of the Ministry explained that it was considered necessary to clarify the subject matter of direct contracts in the light of the ongoing litigation. Paragraph 10 (1) of the current Public Transport Act states that public service contracts are awarded on the basis of a public competition. The Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on public passenger transport services by rail states that direct contracts may be awarded on passenger trains without a public procurement competition. In fact, this regulation states that, if it is not prohibited by national law, the competent authorities may decide to award direct public service contracts for rail transport. The Ministry explained that the other party to the proceedings has come to the conclusion that our law takes precedence over the directly applicable regulation and that we should also organise public competitions in passenger train traffic. According to the Ministry, direct contracts are currently allowed. However, as the dispute arose, the bill specifies this provision in order to avoid further disputes. However, this provision is only forward-looking and the position of the Ministry is that existing direct agreements have been concluded on the basis of the law in force and the current dispute is not affected by this new provision. Perhaps this is a forward-looking provision, not a retroactive provision. The point of the Ministry is that the legislator's will to date should be more clearly written out, because direct agreements under directly applicable regulations of the European Union are possible if it is not explicitly prohibited by national law. Interest was also expressed as to whether it would be conceivable that the conclusion of direct contracts would be limited in time. For example, if the direct contract has been in force for five years, by then the basic data needed to organise the competition have become available and it would be possible to organise a public competition in the future. In fact, this is also the aim of the European Union's regulations. It was said that if, over time, there was a knowledge that the information needed to organise the competition was available, a competition could still be organised. However, in the last 20 years, direct contracts have been concluded all the time, as there is no point in competing if no one else has trains. But the deadline for direct contracts could be left to the government to decide. The draft European Union regulation on public passenger transport services by rail is currently underway under the fourth railway package, and it also addresses the subject of direct contracts. The Ministry recommended waiting for its outcome and then deciding how to act. The Commission was also asked about bus stations. If a bus station does not create the required willingness to assist disabled persons in the draft, whether it is not possible for disabled people to get on a bus or get off the bus at this bus station. The answer was that, even if the bus station did not establish a permanent readiness to allow disabled persons to access transport or to determine where disabled persons could report their arrival and ask for assistance, disabled persons still had clear rights. When the arrival of a disabled person is notified to the bus station 36 hours in advance, carriers and the managing bodies of the bus stations shall cooperate in order to provide assistance to it, despite the fact that full service for disabled persons is not available, as is the case at the bus stations on this list. As the draft also provides for an increase in passengers' rights in relation to journeys that may be delayed or delayed, there was also a question of the estimated increase in the number of complaints submitted to the Consumer Protection Board. It was said that this was difficult to assess, but the number of complaints probably would not increase as the regulation would apply to around 35 routes. In addition, the consumer must prove that his journey has been significantly delayed or cancelled in order to claim compensation. So far, people have also had the right to claim compensation under the current Law of Obligations Act, but it is necessary to amend the Public Transport Act because the European Commission has to formally prove that the Regulation has been transposed, otherwise infringement proceedings may be opened. It was decided to make proposals to place the draft on the plenary agenda by 4 December 2013, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 6 December. However, we later changed the procedural decisions and made new decisions: to propose a draft on the plenary agenda by 20 November and to set the deadline for tabling amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 28 November. Both decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U154	Thank you very much. Any questions? Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U155	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Did you also mention in the Commission that these bus stations, to which the Minister is going to refer by decree, could be owned by local authorities? Can there be an increase in the cost of local authorities in the context of the transposition of this directive? If so, how can these costs be compensated?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U156	Such questions were not discussed, because it is not even yet known, as I referred to earlier, which of these bus stations are because there is no regulation and this list has not been included. This issue was not raised at the Commission meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U157	Thank you. Neeme Big, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U158	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going to be more specific. It is known that a large number of bus stations have either a very large share of the local government or are directly owned by the municipalities, while some individual bus stations are companies or in the management of bus companies. It is very likely that the setting of conditions for bus and coach terminals will in any event affect local authorities and their costs. This is a fact that should be taken into account in the future procedure. Do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U159	Thank you for your question. We can certainly ask for opinions before we read the second reading in this big hall. I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-20_U160	No further questions. Thank you very much, Kaja Kallas. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. I will set the deadline for the submission of 499 amendments. a 28 November at 5.15 p.m. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 499 should be completed. First reading is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's agenda is exhausted. I wish everyone a nice evening. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 4.02 p.m.
