ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the 18th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Apparently, no one wants that or the other. I'll give you some messages. Due to the restoration of the mandate of Urve Palo, member of the Riigikogu, the mandate of Tiit Tammsaare, member of the Riigikogu, expired on 15 June. The Board of the Riigikogu registered the member of the Riigikogu Urve Palo as a member of the Group of the Social Democratic Party and confirmed his entry into office as a member of the Economic Commission. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Estonian Central Party Group. a draft law on the amendment of the Aliens Act, initiated on 12 June, commission of the Constitutional Commission; secondly, the Social Democratic Party Group. a draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the General Part of the Civil Code Act, initiated on 12 June, the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. Estonia's views on the European Commission's Green Paper on Climate and Energy Policy 2030. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Economic Commission and the Environment Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the Green Paper. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 25 June 2010 at 4 p.m. Now, ladies and gentlemen, please do the presence check! 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The Government of the Republic has proposed to change the order of response to today's enquiries so that the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, responds to Question 340 as the second item on the agenda. The remaining items will be moved forward accordingly. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Commission have not known to have had access to the text of the 340 second reading of the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school. The Commission has not been able to vote through amendments and has not been able to propose to suspend or terminate the reading of the draft. This is why our group believes that the Commission has obviously not worked at enough pace to allow this draft to be dealt with this week in plenary. So it is our pious wish, and the proposal is to remove the eighth item, or the reading of the 340 bill, from this week's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U3	Do you mean reading the PGS or asking questions now? The agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U4	The order of business is because we went to this week's agenda approval procedure. Our group's proposal, as I have just said, is to remove the eighth item on Wednesday, which concerns draft 340, from this week's agenda. This is a proposal from the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U5	If this is your proposal, we will have to vote on it. Dear Riigikogu, please pay attention! I am voting on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to remove 340 debates from the agenda of the 18th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please vote! 37 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, against 48. There are no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Let us now go to the adoption of this week's agenda. I shall put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 50 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, against 7. There are no abstentions. The week's agenda is confirmed. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now take the chairman's break, ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to extend the President's break until 3.29 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U7	Dear Riigikogu! One application has been submitted to the management board of the Riigikogu. According to § 49 of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party request that the two additional sessions of the Riigikogu be convened as follows: the first meeting of the Riigikogu starting at 17 o'clock on 20 June 2013 and the second session beginning at half an hour after the end of the first additional session on 20 June 2013. The agenda for the first additional sitting would include the following drafts: 1. Second reading of Bill 340 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws, if the second reading of the draft is not completed at the meeting of 20 June at the latest, or third reading if the second one is completed at the meeting of 20 June at the latest. 2. Second reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Customs Act and the Prison Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, if the second reading is not completed at the meeting of 20 June at the latest, or the third reading if the second one is completed at the meeting of 20 June at the latest. 3. Second reading of draft law 430 amending the Financial Supervision Authority Act and the Investment Funds Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws, if the second reading is not completed at the meeting of 20 June at the latest, or third reading if the second one is terminated at the meeting of 20 June at the latest. 4. Second reading of the Act amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and members of the Riigikogu Rainer Vakra, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laanet and Deniss Borodich, 399 if the second reading is not completed at the meeting of 20 June at the latest, or third reading if the second one is closed at the meeting of 20 June at the latest. 5. Second reading of the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee, 427 if the second reading is not completed at the meeting of 20 June at the latest, or third reading if the second one is completed at the meeting of 20 June at the latest. 6. Second reading of draft law 434 amending the law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws, if the second reading of the draft is not completed at the meeting of 20 June at the latest, or third reading if the second one is completed at the meeting of 20 June at the latest. The following drafts would appear on the agenda of the second additional sitting: 1. Third reading of Bill 340 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws, if the second is terminated at the first additional session on 20 June. 2. The third reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Customs Act and the Prison Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, should the second be completed at the first additional session of 20 June. 3. Third reading of the Financial Supervision Authority Act and the Investment Funds Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, and related amendments to other laws, in the event that the second reading is terminated at the first additional session of 20 June. 4. The third reading of the Act amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and members of the Riigikogu Rainer Vakra, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalle Laanet and Deniss Borodich, in the event that the second reading is completed at the first additional session of 20 June. 5. Third reading of the draft Act amending the Employment Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee, 427 if the second reading is completed at the first additional session of 20 June. 6. Third reading of draft law 434 amending the law on ambient air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws, if the second reading is completed at the first additional session of 20 June. Please, Mr Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U8	Good chairman of the sitting! It was really sweet to hear that story, but I'm more of a person with a visual memory. Is it possible to get everything you read out on paper?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U9	I'm sure there's a way to get it on paper. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U10	Dear Chairman, According to the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the leading committees propose that one or the other draft be discussed on a specific date. Have all the committees concerned been negotiated and have all the committees taken the position that these drafts should be placed on the agenda on the dates you mentioned?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U11	They have proposed to be included on the agenda, only one draft had not been put on the agenda before. Sorry, look, all these third readings have already been put on the agenda on Thursday, 20 June. The other readings are on Tuesday. They're already on the agenda. Please review these agendas. Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U12	Madam President, when will this pleasant opportunity be? Mr. Linde took the question out of my mouth. Before we make a decision here, we really want to read the agenda on paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U13	A copy will be made immediately for you, for everyone. Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U14	The other readings were on many of the drafts you mentioned on Tuesday, not Thursday. We have not discussed their postponement in the Commission. They should be on the Tuesday agenda. And I also ask for the agenda on paper before we vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U15	It'll be on paper right away. At the moment, there is no vote; it is only the transmission of information. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U16	Dear Chairman, I'll pick up where Heljo Pikhof ended up. In my opinion, you interpret the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure very freely. The commission has made specific date proposals to the Riigikogu Board to place one or the other draft on the agenda. The Bureau is now changing the agenda and, in my opinion, it needs the position of the lead committee in accordance with our rules of procedure. Have all the leading committees in whose proceedings your proposed draft laws have been agreed? Have these committees been together and decided on the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U17	Thank you very much. We're about to go over it again. If they are on the agenda on Tuesday, then the third reading is currently scheduled for the 20th day, but if the PGS debate goes very long and the 20th of June does not come to an end in normal time, then it has been asked to put these drafts to a further sitting. Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U18	Madam President, on the basis of what document do you put on the agenda bill 340 at third reading if the Committee on Culture has not taken a decision on what to do with this second reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U19	I'm sorry, it says "if it's finished." It's literally written down. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U20	When I look at the agenda for Tuesday, 18 June, the seventh point is the draft of the Centre Party. There is also point 2, the Social Democrat bill. They are both on the agenda without a Commission proposal, without any discussion within the Commission. If it was a necessity, it could have been put on the agenda by Thursday, but now we are going to re-decide in this Chamber. There's never been a thing like this before!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U21	I'm sorry, what numbers are you talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U22	I am talking about draft 399 and draft 435 which was to be one at second reading on Tuesday, the other at first reading, and that was a firm decision by the Commission. Nobody voted differently in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U23	I'm sorry! Wait a minute, I'll get the paper I need. I do not see the text that I have read to you now because it has been taken away. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that we would very much like the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and others, to be concluded in the spring session. If the second reading is not completed on Tuesday and if it is not completed at the main sitting on Wednesday or Thursday, the debate will take place at a further session and this law could be adopted. No one has currently called into question the debate on these drafts on Tuesday, 18 June, and when these debates are closed, a third reading will be held, but if, for example, on Thursday, the third reading will be so long that the vote cannot be taken on Thursday, they will come to an additional sitting. It's all conditionally written so we can process these draft laws. This also applies to the labour market bill launched by the Social Affairs Committee. Look, please, through! No one here has said that we are throwing out the debates on these draft laws on 18 June. There's no such thing as that. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U24	Mr President, would you please present to the House the decision of the Committee on Culture to put the draft 340 to the third reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U25	Once again, if you read the agenda thoroughly, you will see that this is a conditional wording: 'if it is terminated'. Perhaps the reading will be interrupted and then there will be no continuation, and this will require a decision by the Committee on Culture. It says, 'in case... '. Do you understand what "if" means? Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U26	Madam Chairman! I understand that on the agenda of the five items we have just adopted on Thursday 20 June at third reading, when the second one is closed, you will have proposals from committees that, when the second reading is closed, the third reading will be held on 20 June. You don't have the Cultural Commission's proposal for a draft 340. Do you really interpret the rule in such a way that you can conditionally place any item on the agenda without knowing the Commission's opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U27	I repeat to you one more time: we note that if the second reading is completed on 20 June when the Commission is closed, perhaps the Commission wants to interrupt, I do not know, this is the Commission's decision, then it will be possible to carry out the third reading at the supplementary sitting. It's a conditional approach. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Paragraph 45 of our Home and Rules of Procedure Act states that the regular session will take place from the second Monday of January to the third Thursday of June. You have read us a very long agenda for an additional sitting. However, additional sessions can take place within the framework of this same regular session; emergency sessions, which are another matter for the purposes of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, can take place outside that time. It is difficult to predict whether we will be done by midnight with the first additional session. What happens if you can't? Do we have an additional or extraordinary sitting called on Friday?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U29	Then it's emergency. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U30	Madam President! The two additional sittings shall be convened on Thursday, the first starting time at 5 p.m. and the second beginning half an hour after the first sitting is closed. But how can you be sure the first hearing will end on Thursday?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U31	That's a good point. It may also continue on the 21st, but as you know, the additional sessions will continue until the formal agenda has been completed. Of course, in 2013, I agree with you on such a small ploy. But I hope we can discuss these matters on June 20th or even before. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U32	Madam President! The last sentence of § 53 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act: 'The Riigikogu committees will submit proposals on the agenda for the next working week by 3 p.m. on Thursday of the working week. ' Was the proposal on draft 340 submitted by 3 p.m. on Thursday last week?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U33	Mr Stalnukhin, my dear colleague. Such a condition applies to regular sittings, the committees must comply with this time limit. The agenda for an additional meeting shall be drawn up by the Bureau in accordance with what the committees have proposed. I think that all the committees want to process their pending drafts this semester. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U34	Dear Chairman, I agree with Mr Tarmo Tamme's statement that the decision of the Board of the Riigikogu, which you have adopted, has not been properly drafted. I am referring to paragraph 2 of this, which concerns the second additional sitting of 20 June 2013 beginning half an hour after the end of the first additional sitting. At the moment, this decision of the Riigikogu's Executive Board has been adopted, the so-called valid decision of the Executive Board. Do you think it would not be practical and correct and respectful in front of this House to change this decision and to formalise such a decision as is actually intended?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U35	I think that would be correct. I admit I didn't notice that nuance, and neither did the rest of the board. Since we're starting at 5:00, it could be the 21st. Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Let me ask you, just in case, if we understand the same thing. Suppose that the first additional session runs past 23.30 p.m. At present, no proposal has been received to convene the extraordinary session by the following date, 21 June. This means, however, that a separate extraordinary session must be convened by the following date.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U37	You're absolutely right, dear Sven Mikser! Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U38	Madam Chairman! You have just replied to Mr Stalnukhin that the items to be put on the agenda for the regular sitting must be submitted by 4 a.m. on the previous Thursday. Excuse me, on what basis is Bill 340 currently on the agenda on Wednesday? Do you have the materials?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U39	Sorry, the Bureau will be provided with materials to put together the agenda. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U40	I also think that this decision of the Bureau should be amended. We'll look forward to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U41	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll take another manager's break. We'll proceed at 3:57 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U42	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I want to thank you for your patience and I want to thank those members of the Riigikogu who paid my attention to a moment. In particular, when the time comes on 20 June 2013 at 24:00, the additional session will be closed as an extraordinary session will have to be announced from 21 June. Thanks for that. Sometimes that kind of thing gets out of your mind. However, we cannot now announce an extraordinary session, because according to § 51, a wish must be made to do so by at least one fifth of the Riigikogu, only then can I declare it. That's all the information I have to give you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U43	We will go to today's agenda, which will include inquiries. The first is the inquiry submitted by Priit Toobali, Eldar Efendiev, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laas, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Viktor Vassilyev and Aadu Musta on 3 June this year regarding the conflict of interest of the member of the Government of the Republic and the appointment of members of the council of state companies (No 344). Please, colleague Priit Toobal, to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U44	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! On 3 June this year, I, together with my colleagues, presented an inquiry from the Centre Party Group to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The topic is the conflict of interest of a member of the Government of the Republic and the appointment of members of the Board of State Enterprises. This year, OÜ Autorollo and related transactions have been the subject of constant media attention. It is noteworthy that a member of the Government of the Republic Minister for the Environment and his family are also associated with the association. According to the data published in Äripäev, OÜ Autorollo is related to Autovaal, which in turn is related to the recycling organisation MTÜ Eesti Pakkaguring. The car whale is a tick company at the Estonian Package Circle, through which money has moved to the Autorollo. Collection and recovery of packaging is an area curated by the Minister of the Environment and where earning income depends on the rules created through the Ministry of the Environment and the Committee of the Riigikogu. The National Audit Office has repeatedly pointed out the lack of transparency of the system and the need to amend the Packaging Act. According to the National Audit Office, 64 million euros were not collected as taxes in 2009 due to the lack of transparency and uncontrollability of the system. The draft amendment to the Packaging Act has been prepared to improve the situation, but the procedure has been blocked since the appointment of the current Minister for the Environment. The Minister of the Environment is therefore very likely to have a conflict of interest with regard to the draft Packaging Act, which aims to make the system more transparent and better controllable. In the context of the bankruptcy proceedings of Autorollo, the issue of the appointment of persons to boards of state companies has also arisen. It has been claimed that the manning of implementing entities providing euro support, such as EAS and KIC management and control bodies, has created an infallible system with people suitable for the IRL and Reform Party, in which the coalition in power receives euro support. Autovaal, which is part of the carrollo money scheme, belongs to OÜ Tehnova, which in turn belongs to Toomas Tauts. According to the claim made in the media, Toomas Tauts and AS Eesti Keskkonnateenused have torpedoed the development of Eesti Energia waste incineration unit. In contrast, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts has appointed Toomas Tautsi, a member of the IRL, as a member of the Estonian Energy Council. The manager of the company's production and logistics, the member of the IRL Anti Tammeoksa, who had previously been appointed as a member of the EAS Board, is considered to be the leading figure of the Estonian Package Circle, which is part of the carrollo money scheme. From this position, Minister Anti Tammeoksa did not return until he was charged with a bribery. The criminal case concerned the use of EU funding. Similar examples of the appointment of members to boards of public undertakings are still available and, in many cases, the persons appointed are in conflict of interest. Their private interests are also at stake. On this subject, we have asked the Prime Minister a total of six questions. Let us hope that the Prime Minister will also read the question before he answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U45	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. I beg you to speak, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U46	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The thought flights you submitted from this remote control and you have written down, I will not comment, I will only answer the questions you have asked. The first question: 'Has the Government of the Republic discussed the possible conflict of interest of the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimunus, in relation to his private interests? ' Keit Pentus-Rosimannus's interest is to do his job as Minister of the Environment as best as possible. I have no reason to doubt the wish of the Minister for the Environment to stand up for the interests of the state as a whole and to do his best in his position. The second question: 'Have you discussed the possible resignation of the Minister for the Environment? ' No, it's not. The third question: 'How much damage has the country suffered as a result of the delay in the drafting of the Packaging Act in the form of unpaid taxes? " The country has not suffered any damage. The collection of excise duties on packaging has improved significantly in recent years. According to the Tax and Customs Board, a total of EUR 276000 was received in 2012 instead of EUR 100000 planned, i.e. an execution of 276%. In 2011, instead of the planned EUR 32000, an amount of EUR 197000 was paid out, i.e. 615%. The Package Act has been in force since 2004 and this should be known to the inquisitors. Indeed, the intention is to put forward a new draft. This draft has moved at a reasonable pace and with the involvement of the various parties involved. At the moment, the bill is being coordinated by the Ministry of Justice. We will soon discuss this in the government, and it will soon move to the Riigikogu. Question 4: 'What are the grounds for assigning persons to the management or control bodies of public undertakings? 'In public undertakings, the ownership rights are exercised by ministers according to the area of government of which the activities of the company are primarily owned. This is unless the law provides otherwise, as in the case of Eesti Energia, for example. In public undertakings, the members of the Supervisory Board are selected in accordance with the requirements of the State Assets Act. The appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board shall be based on the company's field of activity, its specific nature, the background, experience and knowledge of the candidate for the Supervisory Board. It is important that there are people from different backgrounds in the Council, so that the Council is as broad as possible. I would stress that the members of the government only appoint the board, not the members of the board. The board of directors shall elect a company board. Question 5: 'How is it ensured that conflicts of interest between the members of the management or control bodies of public undertakings are avoided? ' The conflict of interest of the members of the control bodies of State undertakings shall be prevented by the collection of the necessary information. According to the form established by the Finance Minister's decree, candidates for the Supervisory Board must record their participations in companies of more than 10%, their employment and positions in the last five years, their membership in boards and boards of directors in the last five years, companies, foundations, non-profit organisations. The members of the Supervisory Board shall notify any changes to these data. Paragraph 80 (2) and (3) of the State Assets Act prohibits, inter alia, the membership of councils of a person with a conflict of interest. The company in which the State has decision-making powers has the obligation to apply good corporate governance practices and to describe it as a corporate governance report in its annual report. This follows from Section 88 (1) (10) of the State Assets Act. In addition, members of the board of public undertakings are obliged to submit a declaration of financial interests to the Minister who appointed them. Question 6: Has there been a division within the Government of the Republic of Estonia, which companies are the subject of the Reform Party and which companies are the subject of the IRL? "The managers of the participation of public undertakings shall be ministers in accordance with their respective spheres of governance. Ministers are undoubtedly politicians, part of the present coalition being the Union of the Fatherland and Res Publica and part of the Reform Party. The representative of the owner in a state-owned company is therefore a minister belonging to one party or another, and the members of the council are both politically defined and undefined persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U47	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Any questions? Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U48	Mr. Prime Minister! To the third question, how much damage the country has suffered because of the stretching of the draft legislation on packaging, you said that there was no harm. In this context, I would ask you in some way to comment on the assessment of the National Audit Office, which in 2009, due to the lack of transparency and uncontrollability of the system did not pay the state some 64 million euros in taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U49	I can repeat what I've already said. In 2012, the package excise duty was EUR 276000 instead of the planned EUR 100000, i.e. a budget implementation of 276%. Such executions in general rarely occur in the budget. For 2012, no one has any reason to claim that less than planned excise duties on packaging have been received, and it is not possible to mention any specific amount. In 2011, instead of the planned EUR 32000, EUR 197000 was received, i.e. even higher budget execution: 615%. I am not a very good knower of the Packaging Excise Act, but, as I recall, the Packaging Excise Act has been amended since the audit carried out by the National Audit Office. Perhaps these are huge budgetary surpluses of 276% and 615% due to these legislative changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U50	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U51	Prime Minister! To the second question, have you discussed the possible resignation of the Minister for the Environment, you said no. But hasn't the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, himself, expressed his wish to be placed on the bench by the time he is surrounded by such scandals? That's for the period until it's settled and clear in the house.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U52	If we started releasing ministers or other officials from every press briefing, there would be a lot of chaos. There is a presumption of innocence in Estonia, and I recommend that everyone, including all members of the Riigikogu, respect the presumption of innocence very seriously. This is our constitutional principle. In order not to remain naked, one could also go on with another journalistic aziotage, such as the Padriku kindergarten theme, about which we know that the page was printed thickly, but it all ended up with fiasco for writers, because there were no grounds for complaints. I say in return: should this person accused of journalism have necessarily resigned? Far from it! The presumption of innocence is to honor everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U53	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U54	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Anyway, something interesting sounded like it. If I were dealing with an accountant who was wrong about his prognosis 2.8 times once and 6,15 times some other time, it would certainly show that he's not a professional. It is simply not possible to work like this. This means that the figures mentioned here by the Prime Minister with pride, for example, that in one year 276% of excise duty was collected compared to what was expected, only show that people are not able to make forecasts, although it is clear how much is sold and how much excise duty is. Everything is known in advance, and consumption is more or less known. If this difference increases and the excise duty is already 615% compared to the forecast, it shows that it is completely rotten. No one can predict. It's not a presumption of innocence, it's a representation of innocence, maybe. But what does all this prove? Just that nobody really does it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U55	Thank you very much, Mr. Stalnukhin. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U56	Next is Priit Toobali, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velman, Lauri Laasi, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Valeri Korb, Ester Tuiksoo and Yana Toomis, members of the Riigikogu. A request for information on the activities of the Tax and Customs Board and the outstanding taxes (No 340) was submitted on 22 May 2004. I would like to ask my colleague, Priit Toobal, again to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U57	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Finance! On 22 May this year, we submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, regarding the activities of the Tax and Customs Board and the outstanding taxes. This question is as if a follow-up to the previous question, i.e. the same case that has been under constant media attention this year, i.e. the private limited company Autorollo and related transactions. It has been published in Äripäev that OÜ Autovaal, which is linked to Autorollo through transactions, is related to NGO Eesti Pakkaguring, so the matter is also very directly related to the administration of the Minister of Environment. The reason why we also referred this question to the Minister of Finance is the possible action or omission of the Tax and Customs Board on this matter. In our opinion, the Tax and Customs Board might be interested in the circulation of money between Autorollo and Autovaala and the Estonian Package Circle. However, nothing has been heard about the state's activities so far. The Estonian Tax and Customs Board is a member of the Ministry of Finance. As a total of more than 17 million kroons has been reportedly taken out of ATMs and if its involvement in the company's economic activities cannot be demonstrated by the Tax and Customs Board, the corresponding use of funds is subject to taxation as non-business-related costs. Income tax, social tax and interest on late payments must be included in the amount for the whole period. If the company is bankrupt and insolvent, the responsible persons shall also be required to pay damages in the event of a civil action or a deliberate criminal offence. On this subject, we have asked the Minister four questions, asking the Minister to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U58	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. I would like to ask the honourable Minister for Finance for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U59	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The first question is whether the Tax and Customs Board has carried out a review of Autorollo and what these other companies are to investigate transactions and whether the legality of transactions and compliance with the tax laws in force in the country have been established. My answer is that I don't know it, and I don't intend to investigate it. These are things that are covered by tax secrecy, and I am not going to violate tax secrecy. In particular, the acts, notices and other documents related to it are tax secrets, as well as information on the existence of the media, as well as the results of the checks on commercial and banking secrecy. The second question: 'As Minister of Finance, have you instructed MTA not to pay attention to this case? " Such a question is low and offensive! You have no reason to suspect me of anything like that! I was beginning to wonder if I could do something comparable here today. For a moment, I looked at the names of the heirs and wondered if there was any way I could offend these people through their family members, referring to similar circumstances. To be honest, it's quite impressive how people don't have the guts and the wisdom not to put their name down for such questions. But, of course, I will not touch on family matters or abuse relations with law enforcement agencies against anyone. The third and fourth questions concern quite the same thing: 'Do you think that there is a need for the legal space for recycling organisations to be cleaned up and how much is estimated to be due to the lack of control and the lack of transparency of the system? When do you think the legal space for recycling organisations could be clarified, taking into account that the Minister for the Environment does not seem to have any initiative in resolving the problem because of a conflict of interest? ' First of all, you label the Minister of the Environment, referring to his situation in terms of conflict of interest. It's arbitrary and malicious. However, as far as packaging excise duties are concerned, the aim has not been to maximise tax receipts but to achieve environmentally sound behaviour. The overall assessment is that there is improvement in this area. At the same time, there is reason to consider, and perhaps in the near future, the government will do so, whether such a conditional tax should not be replaced by a fiscal system. I'm not in a hurry to call out a position to replace yes. However, the Tax and Customs Board has carried out some kind of assessment in itself and found that EUR 15 million of excise duties on packaging were not collected in 2009, EUR 16,8 million in 2010 and EUR 9 million in 2011. But analogous figures apply to all taxes, and that does not mean that someone has a conflict of interest or that taxes are imposed in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U60	Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U61	Let's go to the next question. This is the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Priit Toobali, Peeter Võsa, Olga Sõtnik, Vladimir Velman, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Enn Esemaa, Kalev Kallo, Marika Tuus-Lauli and Eldar Efendijev on 6 May s. a. Request for information on verification of digital signature (No 329) submitted. I would like to ask my colleague Yana Toomi in the chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U62	Madam President! We have an inquiry to the Honorable Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur, concerning ID cards and digital signatures. And what's to deny, of course, about the e-elections. When we discussed this issue in this Chamber of Riigikogu, the Commission's rapporteur, Mr Korobenik, was in trouble to answer the question of how it is possible to control the area, who does it and what the penalty is when a person votes for another person or gives another person digital signature. It's probably impossible to identify if some people are signed without her knowing. Digital signature has the same legal meaning as a hand signature and the only way to find out that a person has not given it is if a person is aware of it. Then he'll file some kind of complaint. However, the assumption is that the person knows that there are digitally signed documents in his name. Of course, the principle of not handing your ID card to other persons is known as an important security requirement, but it can still be abused and done. We know this from both the police and media sources. In this regard, we have five questions for the Minister, and I hope that Mr Pevkur will read them himself when he answers the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U63	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. I would like to ask the honourable Minister of Justice for the floor now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U64	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'm in a bit of a dilemma when I'm here today to answer your questions. Indeed, most of these five questions are, in fact, all questions of the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and I would very much have liked these questions to be submitted to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. All related to ID-card and digital signing, AS Certification Centre and so on are in Mr. Parts' jurisdiction. However, I will try to answer these questions very briefly from the point of view of the Ministry of Justice. The first question is whether it is possible to look at statistics, for example, which have been digitally signed by a person over a year. There is no other answer here, except that the Certification Centre is the place where theoretically the answer can be obtained, whether it can be determined at all. Well, as a rule, the person knows how much he's signed in a year. My recommendation to you to answer this first question is either to address directly to the Head of the Certification Centre or to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications if you try it at political level. The second question relates to the first. If there is a possibility to obtain statistics, how can you understand which documents are signed with the identity card and authenticated in the portals? When dealing with Deputy Secretary-General Taavi Kotka of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, it turned out that the people of the Certification Centre should also be consulted for a more precise answer to this question. Mr Eagle was actually prepared to answer these questions in more detail if the heirs so wished. So if you have a wish, then the Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Taavi Kotka, is at your disposal. I can answer the third question a little bit more. Here's the question. The reason for the revocation of digital signatures is that the person has made a statement that his digital signature has been used without his knowledge. However, how can it be checked, for example, whether someone has participated in e-elections with an ID card while he has also been present at the station? As an introduction, I dare confirm that e-elections are a very good opportunity to achieve greater electoral activity in Estonia and that a high level of security in e-elections is guaranteed. You don't have to worry about that. If you look at the Riigikogu Election Act, then the heirs will know that this law provides for a procedure that if a person has voted both electronically and with a voting slip, then the district commission will send an electronic vote to the committee on the basis of which it will disregard the vote given electronically. In this way, it is ensured that the vote given in the ballot paper is valid. The simplest and shortest answer is therefore: as the law provides for in the case of both local governments and Riigikogu elections, when a person goes to the station, there is always a valid vote in the department, not an electronic vote. So if anyone has any suspicion of an ID-card vote, it's possible to give a vote at the precinct. Question 4: How many cases do we have in Estonia concerning the misuse of digital signatures? Statistics on this point are undisputedly difficult, if not impossible. Digital signatures are equivalent to conventional signatures and digital signatures, as is the case with conventional signatures, do not reflect possible misuses separately, for example, in summaries of criminal offences or accusations. For example, when it comes to fraud, it is recorded that a stranger's identity has been used. But whether this has been done simply by showing a foreign document or is signed somewhere, it is difficult to get an accurate view of it. At the same time, we studied last year's data on certain formations. For example, a total of 1682 frauds were registered and only nine of them could be claimed with absolute certainty that digital signatures were misused. There are some 1,700 cases of other types of fraud, such as hand-patched false signatures. If you look at how much is simply used as a foreign identity card or other identity document, only five out of 113 foreign documents are used, we can talk with absolute certainty that the ID card was used. Therefore, the honest answer is that it is not possible to accurately identify these cases, since the identity signature, i.e. digital signature, is equivalent to a paper signature. Question 5: How much information has been done to raise the awareness of older people, such as those over the age of 50, of the use of digital signatures? In this regard too, Deputy Secretary General Taavi Kotka of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is ready to give you a longer overview. Basically, you can talk about the general introduction of computer and internet usage. Heirs have certainly also heard about programs aimed specifically at older people, in which people learn about the use of computers and the Internet.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U65	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Question from my colleague, Yana Toom. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U66	Dear Minister, Since the Board of the Riigikogu considered it possible to pass on this question to you, not to Mr Parts, I still hoped that we would get a little more detailed answers. But that's it. For you as Minister of Justice, this is my basic question. We know that both the Riigikogu Election Act and the Identity Documents Act prohibit me from signing with a foreign ID card, but I did not find any law on how to punish it. Maybe you'll point the finger at what the provision is that I'll be punished for if I do it? It's like there's an offence, it's illegal by law, but it doesn't seem like there's any responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U67	There's still a responsibility. In that case, it is identity theft. Now, if I'm trying to remember the Penal Code, the scam sections are 209.213. When we talk about the abuse of an important personal document, there is a paragraph in the Penal Code, number 349. So the elements of the crime are defined. If it has been found that someone else's ID card has been used to give the vote, then the penalty is entirely foreseen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U68	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. I'm opening negotiations. My colleague Yana Toomi of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U69	To be honest, I wouldn't have come to this remote control, but Mrs Ergma just showed me that I can only ask one question. So I'm just gonna take this opportunity to clear my mouth. I'm very concerned that if I show up at the polling station with my husband's passport, I'll be courteously escorted out of there, but if I take my husband's ID card out of the dresser at home and vote for him, nothing will happen. There is no responsibility for this, and it may well happen that my husband or anyone, such as the neighbor's aunt, will never know that I have voted for him. That is the point, and I am deeply sorry that Mr. Minister of Justice skipped this point skilfully in answering our questions. I believe we may have to ask these questions further, but right now, the situation is that buying all kinds of votes is going to be easy. I can just go, collect someone's ID cards with passwords, vote away, share them back, and the soul is happy. There's probably no mechanism to control it. It's very sad. And there is the impression that the legislative gap is not a problem for our honourable ministers either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U70	Thank you very much, Mr Toom. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U71	Next is the request for an old-age pension submitted on 8 May this year by the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Eldar Efendiev, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velman, Lauri Laasi, Kadri Simson, Mailis Repsi, Viktor Vassilyev, Valeri Korbi, Tarmo Tamme and Enn Eesmaa (No 333). Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U72	Madam President! We have an inquiry into the old-age pension for Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. The Estonian pension system consists of three pillars, like Latvia and Lithuania. The first pillar is financed by the state budget and depends on the pensioner's income and careers, the second one is a state-administerable funded pension and the third one is voluntary pension insurance. Old-age pension is made up of three components in Estonia. Firstly, the basic or base part, which will amount to EUR 126.8 from 1 April 2013. Secondly, the length of a retirement pension depends on the number of years of retirement, i.e. years of work and years of work equivalent to that of a person. And thirdly, the insurance share, which depends on how much social tax has been paid on the pensioner's salary since 1999. When determining old-age pension, the share of the insurance unit increases from year to year, i.e. that the state old-age pension is increasingly dependent on the amount of social tax paid for a particular person, i.e. the amount of his or her salary during his or her working life. For example, if social tax is paid on an average salary, the annual coefficient is 1 if a person earns less than the average salary, the coefficient is less than 1. Thus, a person who is paid a higher amount of social tax is also guaranteed a higher pension. The current pensions are still relatively uniform, but in the future pensions will vary several times as a result of the implementation of this model. Many people committed to society, whose income is not very high, also have to accept a small pension. This seems unfair because, in real life, a kindergarten teacher who loves his job or a teacher in the pay market cannot compete with people working in the IT and financial sectors. Let me give you an example that is not included in the question, but what we all know very well: a kindergarten teacher must work four years in order to get one year's retirement. As a member of the Riigikogu, I receive four years of retirement for my year of employment. In this regard, we have five questions for the Minister. I hope Mr. Clothes will read them when he starts answering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U73	Thank you very much. Please speak with the esteemed Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I begin to answer the questions, I would point out that the three-pillar pension system is not only characteristic of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, as you note in your inquiry, but in the various variations there is such a system in almost all European countries. It is reasonable that Estonia also introduced such a system more than ten years ago. But now I'm going to answer your questions. The first question: 'When is the government planning to raise the base part of the old-age pension? " This is done every year according to the law. Since a state pension is a social security benefit based on the principles of solidarity, one of its essential components is a basic component of equal size for all. From 2008 onwards, the state pension became even more solidarity-based. This was initiated, by the way, by Bill No 1 of the previous Parliament, which I had the honour of defending before Parliament and of acting as its leading judge. The share of the pension base started to increase from year to year. Since that year 2008, the basic pension is increased by an index with an additional share multiplied by a factor of 1.1 and the annual grade increased by an index with a share multiplied by a coefficient of 0,9. The use of additional coefficients will increase the share of the pension base over the years. In 2013, the first pillar accounts for 38% of old-age pensions on average, and by 2045 it will reach 55% as a whole. It grows every year, like I said. Question 2: 'Estonia's pension system is largely based on people's success in the labour market. Is and when is the government planning to change the system of indexing the pension insurance unit? ' You drew attention to the inequality of pensions in your question, but I would like to draw attention to another matter. You spoke about the inequality of pensions, depending on the people's pre-retirement income. If we calculate the first pillar of pensions, we exclude the second and third pillars from the current debate and monitor the Gini coefficient, then the Gini coefficient in Estonia has remained constant at 0.08 for the first pillar of pensions year after year. I'm sure you know that the smaller this coefficient, the smaller the inequality in the country. This figure is on average four times lower for the first pillar of pensions than the Gini coefficient for the income of people aged 18 to 64. Simply put, the situation of people in Estonia in terms of the first pillar of old-age pension is about four times more equal than in terms of people's pre-retirement income. Question 3: 'Very many people are concerned and confused about a situation where, due to the social tax paid on wages, one year worked does not count with an annual coefficient of 1,0. What is your vision of a pension system that guarantees equal opportunities for all good workers? ' The Estonian pension system is insurance-based and the insurance unit is an important part of it. I would stress that the insurance share is the lion's share of the pension for people who are my generation's partners, but it represents a rather small part of the pension for people who have recently retired or are about to retire. It is a very important fact that the majority of these people's retirements are made up of the lion's share of their working lives before 1998. Of course, they are also entitled to a basic pension, as are all of us. But I would point out that, especially for the younger generation, a very important part of the pension, called the insurance share, is very important. This system has a definite logic. The annual coefficient indicates the ratio between the annual social tax paid on the person's salary and the average social tax paid on the state's salary. As you rightly pointed out, if social tax is paid on average wages, the annual coefficient is 1.0. If the annual coefficient of a person differs from 1.0 up or down, it must not be taken into account in such a way that the person does not earn an honest and full pension. This is definitely not correct. We know that the pension system has been changed since 1999 and that the insurance share is different from the qualifying share. We take the theoretical option of not taking into account at all the amount of social tax paid on people's wages if they all equal the annual coefficients, regardless of their income. If this were to happen, we would move back to the pre-1999 system, which would probably be in direct conflict with the will of the changers of the pension system at the time. The Social Security Reform Government Committee has also discussed the possibility of using the minimum wage for the calculation of the annual coefficient. It would make people feel more psychologically confident, because then everyone's coefficient would be either 1 or greater. However, as responsible politicians, we have to realise that no matter what multiplier we use, there will be no more money to pay pensions. As we know, for a number of years, at least from 2008 this bill was adopted in 2007 and Estonia has paid pensions as big each year as it has been possible for the state to pay. We don't leave anything in reserve, we don't raise reserves for pensions. On the contrary, we are paying extra social tax revenues from the other revenues of the state so that people have as many pensions as possible. And, of course, every year, when Estonia has economic growth, pensions increase accordingly, because the size of pensions depends much more on economic growth than on the good will of politicians. Question 4: 'The idea of a national pension system should be to guarantee a minimum standard of living for pensioners. What is your assessment of whether the Estonian pension system is in line with this objective? ' In reply to this, I repeat that the size of Estonian pensions depends on the success of our economy. The better the economy is, the bigger the pensions we can pay. Parliament's decision ensures an automatic increase in pensions. I certainly consider such growth to be more appropriate than one-off decisions, because automatic growth will certainly give older people greater confidence. Question 5: "How many percent of pensioners receive a lower minimum wage and how many percent higher pension? ' Last year, this figure was much better, but this year's minimum wage increased very rapidly, around 11%, and therefore this ratio has slightly deteriorated. However, much more so, namely 63% of old-age pensioners receive a higher pension than the minimum wage, 37% of old-age pensioners receive a lower pension than the minimum wage. This is, yes, a slightly worse figure this year than last year, because the minimum wage has increased very quickly over a very long period of time and this will also change this ratio.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U75	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U76	Thank you! My question concerns those pensioners who discovered this spring that their pension has increased slightly, which is also natural, because Estonia has been among the countries with the highest price increases in the euro zone for two years. But part of this slightly increased pension has now gone under income tax. When this problem arose, there was a promise from the government union that it would quickly increase the tax-free minimum to prevent it. The Centre Party's draft on this issue has just been voted out. What is the government's plan when the income tax-free minimum will be increased so much that most pensioners will not have to pay income tax on their pensions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U77	I very much believe that, at least, the average old-age pension and, preferably, the pension slightly exceeding the average old-age pension, would be exempt from income tax. We have agreed that we will discuss this tax exemption when we put together the budget for next year. This work will start in late summer and then we will also have to decide whether we can raise the tax-free pension limit or whether we can increase the tax-free rate in general, so it also concerns pensioners. This is a decision that must be made in line with the state's financial resources, and it makes sense to do so when we put the state budget together.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U78	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U79	Minister, thank you for your exhaustive answers. There was no issue here, but I had the impression from you that you consider the current pension system to be affordable and therefore fair, even though they are not really synonymous at all. But that's it. I would ask you to comment on the statement that is written in our inquiry and which you did not reject, that if the current pensions are relatively similar in size, they will vary several times in the future. I didn't understand how you felt about it. Is this normal in your opinion, and is there any calculations made on how much this difference could be in the future, for example, in 20 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U80	I have not said that it is precisely the affordability of pensions to the state that automatically guarantees fairness. However, the affordability of pensions is the basis for the state's security of people, because if the state acquires an unsustainable pension system, everyone understands it, it cannot last for long. Of course, it would put pressure on those people whose livelihood depends on their pension. As regards your claim that the first pillar of people's pensions will be different once and for all, I do not agree with that. We will certainly be able to find very extreme examples of this, but I would point out once again that, year after year, the increasing proportion of people's pensions is now 38%, but it is already approaching the side and moving more than half of the first pillar, the part that is equal to everyone. If it averages almost half or even more of it depends on what year we base on, then it already states that pensions cannot at least vary in terms of the first pillar. I also repeat that the difference in pensions under the current system is four times smaller than the difference in people's pre-retirement incomes. Pensions are largely due to the fact that they have a very strong element of solidarity within them, which is growing faster than the rest of the pension. I have discussed these issues with many older people, including those who would not really be affected by this change, which we could discuss here. In general, people have a firm view of what the Estonian pension system must be, and many of them believe that the difference that results from the difference between people's contributions to work, precisely how long someone has worked, must certainly be. There are very different opinions as to whether or not a pension should be dependent on earned income. I would stress that this part, or insurance share, is a significant part of the pension for young people, rather than the pension for those who are already retired or who are about to retire.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U81	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U82	Mr. Minister! I was just trying to find this article, but it didn't work out in a hurry. Whether yesterday or the day before, I read about an electronic version, it was Postimees or Delfi or Evening Newspaper that, if you look at the municipalities, there are municipalities where the average pension for men is around 1200 euros, and there are municipalities where it is EUR 340.400. The difference between women is slightly smaller: from EUR 340 to EUR 400 and the maximum in some areas is EUR 700. How can such a difference be justified in different ways if, of course, this information is true?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U83	This information is quite difficult to comment on. I noticed it in the weekend paper, too, and I haven't been able to check it from the line. I assume that people's voluntary funded pensions have also been taken into account. But once again: it should be analysed in more detail and it has not been possible to do so today. Surely we can examine whether this information is even true and where such differences can theoretically come from.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U84	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U85	Minister, thank you very much. Despite great opposition, the government raised the retirement age a few years ago. Is this issue now off the table, or is the government planning to come back to it in the near future or in the distant future and start raising the retirement age?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U86	I do not agree with the assessment that there was a great deal of opposition to this in society. I think it was widely understood. The public knows that raising the retirement age for people who retire after 2026 will help us sustainably pay a more dignified pension to current older people. We would not be able to raise pensions responsibly now if we knew that there would be a huge deficit for the pension fund in 2020 or 2030. Thanks to the fact that we will increase the retirement age in a rather distant future compared to today, the pension fund has become exponentially much more sustainable. If we look at the overall picture of Europe, the 65 years to which the retirement age was raised in Estonia are at a rather lower end in other parts of Europe. And in many places it is discussed how much it is necessary to increase the retirement age. There is no current need to raise it further in Estonia, but we cannot rule out that our children must do so, because there is also a positive trend in Estonia that life expectancy is increasing and that, of course, means pressure on the pension fund. But this picture is generally looked forward to one generation and we make decisions for our fellow generations rather than for those who will retire in the near future. For them, of course, it is very important to have legal certainty and to know in advance what retirement means. Thanks to the increase in the retirement age from 2026 to 65 years during the crisis, we do not need to plan any radical changes in this area in the near future. At the same time, we can certainly discuss in the Committee on Social Affairs whether, in the future, an automatic adjustment mechanism should be applied in Estonia, for example, so that, if the average life expectancy of the Estonian population increases significantly, the retirement age will automatically rise at some point. But that would be a very long-sighted strategy. Let's put it this way: unfortunately, the average life expectancy in Estonia is not yet close to the average in Western Europe, but on the other hand, it means that our pension fund is more sustainable than their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U87	Thank you. Please, Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U88	Dear Minister, This topic is of great interest to society. One person sent us a letter describing his situation and asking a serious question. It is quite a serious patient with a relatively large amount in the second pension pillar. He claims that the health insurance fund prevents him from using the amount of the second pillar and asks why.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U89	In order to comment appropriately on this case, the facts should be clearly known. You can't say anything based on the information you received in this minute to ask. My suggestion to you is to ask this person to agree to share his letter with me, so I can verify it accurately and give a detailed and exhaustive answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U90	No further questions. Thank you very much to the Minister. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The debate on this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U91	The next item is the inquiry to the Social Minister Taavi Rõivas on 9 May 2013 by Yana Toomi, Mailis Reps, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Tarmo Tamme, Lauri Laas, Peeter Võsa, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev and Eldar Efendijev, members of the Riigikogu. I'm asking for a speech chair on behalf of the inquisitors, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U92	Madam President! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, An inquiry is about personal care. In April an article was published in the Estonian Päevaleht Andrei Hvostov, in which the author describes his life with his wife and her daughter who had been through a stroke. In this case, the daughter must care for her mother, but it is very difficult to do so in addition to working full-time. In addition to taking care of the mother and working at the same time, the caregiver is also under strained by psychological stress. Andrei Hvostov's article received much attention and responded from people who are in a similar situation. I believe that all members of the Riigikogu without exception, and probably the minister himself, have received such letters. A carer is a person who cares for a family member or a relative who, due to illness, disability or other special needs, needs help in his daily life. Informal care can be short-term and temporary, but it often involves day-to-day supervision and care. Family carers are parents of a disabled child, spouses, or daughters and sons who care for their elderly parents. It is possible to place the carer temporarily in a care facility during the period of leave or illness. However, it is difficult to place your close family member in a care establishment, as the average cost of the place is 600 euros, which is a higher amount than, for example, the pension of a pensioner in need of care. In addition to high costs, you have to expect to get a place in line. Inheritance requires inhuman effort from loved ones, but the money for the care of the loved ones is nonexistent. If memory doesn't fool me, it's a little over 15 euros. In addition, when a person becomes a carer, quits his or her work and devotes his or her life to the care of a loved one, his or her future pension suffers because no one pays social security contributions for the carer. In this regard, we have five questions for Mr Clothes. I hope the Minister will read them out when he starts answering questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U93	Thank you very much. I'm asking for Secretary of State for Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will respond to nine members of the Riigikogu asking questions about informal care. Question number one: "When is the government going to raise the monthly fee for informal care? 'The carers' allowance is paid by local authorities to their own carers and each municipality has set separate requirements for receiving the allowance. But I think that, and I have also said this many times, that the number of services related to informal care needs to be significantly increased and better opportunities to care for people across Estonia should be offered. It is important to support both those in need and those in need. We have planned for general care, which is the official name of informal care, effective support from the European Union's new budget period, and we are absolutely convinced that we can offer better services to those who care for their loved ones at home that meet individual needs, including care leave, interval care, as well as day care for the elderly. The second question: 'Homecare does not give the carer a period of service. When does the government plan to change the system to ensure that a person caring for a close relative at home has access to work for all years of care? 'For the beneficiary of the care allowance, social guarantees are guaranteed in accordance with § 6 (11) (1) of the Social Tax Act, which provides that the municipality or city pays social tax on the recipient of the care allowance, who cares for the disabled person or the disabled child. If the municipality pays social tax, the part of the social tax paid shall be taken into account for the purposes of calculating the retirement pension equivalent to that which would have been paid for the minimum wage. As a result, the period of care is included in the retirement age of those persons. If a carer is in full-time employment, the fact that he or she is also a carer does not give him or her an additional retirement period. If he works full-time, of course, he'll have a career from work. The third question: 'By the time of disability or the illness of a carer, the idea is that a carer can be temporarily placed in a care establishment, but what if the family does not get a place in a care establishment or if the cost of the place is financially excessive? ' First of all, I specify that the average place fee over Estonia is more than 500 than 600 euros, but it is certainly more than the average pension. It is not true that we have queues of care services across Estonia. They're not in general care. Special care, which is a public service for people with special psychological needs, has queues, but there are queues in the care of the elderly in certain areas, including around Tallinn. Throughout Estonia, we have more than 500 places than there are real customers. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that even in smaller places there are some nursing homes with a very good price/quality ratio, where there is indeed a queue at the door. Many of these nursing homes have contacted me to discuss how this high-quality and reasonably priced service can be offered to the wider target group, as demand is very high. And now to the question. We certainly want services that are not stationary, living around the clock in a nursing home, helping the relatives to finance and organise local governments. I think that even more important than the fact that they go too far is that in many places they are not being offered at all or at least not being offered to the extent that people are interested. These services, which are not round-the-clock, are much more affordable for people for obvious reasons, but it is conceivable to use EU funds to partially compensate for these services as well. We have decided that we will use these European Union funds, a large part of which goes into informal care and with the help of which we want to bring informal care to a new level in Estonia, on the basis of measures developed together with municipalities, informal care providers and nursing homes or, let's say, with service providers in general, because the range of service providers is wider than just nursing homes. Question 4: 'Why has Estonia not developed a substitution care system and are you planning to take steps in this direction? This system would allow people who are constantly caring for themselves to be given rest. " In part, I already answered that question. Just for the record or for the record, we use substitute care as a term instead of orphanage services in the old sense, which is what we called orphanage years ago. With the help of European funds, the system of hiring carers to take leave for their own care is exactly the same as we are planning to introduce to as many municipalities as possible. If municipalities are too small to provide quality care services, they can co-operate. Interestingly, however, it is not the smallest municipalities that are able to provide this service on a high-quality basis. Take the example of Käru rural municipality in Raplamaa. If I remember correctly, there are about 800 inhabitants. There's a great nursing home that the parish has built. It's one of those nursing homes with a place fee of about 500 euros, maybe a little more. There is always a queue behind the door, because there is no doubt a very high-quality service. And like I said, there's about 800 people in the parish. Or we could take Emmaste's parish in Hiiumaa, the Casualty Nursing House. Many of you know that this is one of Estonia's largest and most high-quality nursing homes. Once again, a small government. In fact, the entire Hiiumaa is served, but the municipality in whose territory this nursing home is located and who directs it is small. Question 5: 'You have requested that all local authorities provide home services for the elderly. How is this to be ensured, and does the state provide additional resources for this to the local authorities? ' I think I've already answered that, but I'm going to go over it for clarity. Yes, we are planning to allocate several tens of million euros of service provision money to a variety of informal care services, perhaps starting with an alarm button and telemedicine services. For example, Kuressaare, where there is an elderly day care center, is already in contact with several people living in Orissaare or around Orissaare. They are able to communicate with each other and with the elderly daily centre for an hour on a television screen each day. The technology is called Virtu and similar solutions would like to be offered much wider. The next service, if it is appropriate to place them in the hierarchy in this way, is the service provided by the municipality to a person who needs to be cared for either daily or at a certain time. Then the already mentioned care leave for loved ones. We realize that caring for a person with a very deep disability is a job that is done 24 hours a day and seven days a week, and just as every job requires a week or a few or months' rest from caring for one's loved one. Such a service must also be provided. The next, perhaps the closest service to what is provided in a stationary nursing home, is day care for the elderly. Several nursing homes have built their own rooms for this, but for one reason or another this service has not fully run. To that end, we also want to allocate funds. However, it should be stressed here that day care for the elderly is likely to be a more attractive service for the elderly living in a densely populated area, because going to a very distant home for day care is probably not conceivable. It is therefore more for cities and urban settlements. As has been said, every service must be individual and must meet the needs of the person as precisely as possible. That's what we're trying to achieve. Not all services need to be exactly the same and not all people want exactly the same services. We also rely on the fact that as long as possible people want to be at home and also receive services in their own homes. I think it makes perfect sense, if possible, to support the family so that the person can get the necessary services at home. One of the sums of money planned for people with special needs, not only informal care but also for people with special needs, will be invested in order to adapt the homes of people with special needs to their needs. This may mean redesigning to allow the home to move with a means of transport. This may involve the conversion of washing and toilets, but also, for example, in the case of visual impairments or other trees, such reorganisations in order to be able to cope independently at home. Once again, we rely on people prefering to stay in their home and in a familiar environment as long as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U95	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U96	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I am a little confused because being a carer, as far as I know, does not give a person a period of service, and I have been approached with this question a lot. But as you said in reply to the previous question, let's look at these cases one by one, and I'll address you separately if there's any mistake. You accidentally answered the fifth question twice, namely by answering the first question. I ask you this: when is the government going to raise the monthly fee for informal care? And if this is not the case, please tell me that the government does not intend to raise this fee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U97	Thank you. As you well know, the government can decide on all kinds of budget issues only when the budget is put together. If I made any firm promises between the budgeting and the budgeting, I would behave in a non-respective manner towards my colleagues, and that cannot be done. You're asking me if you should raise the pay for informal care. Of course, if that's possible, it should be raised. But this reward, let's be honest, doesn't replace a full-time job. It is more important to help these people to work, to be active in everyday life and to provide the services they need for their loved ones, according to many personal carers themselves and also to the state. This is, in fact, something that will help us in the future to allocate funds for the reward of our own carers. People could receive much more support services from local governments than they do now, and I am of the opinion that the state must give strong support to local governments in these matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U98	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U99	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. At the beginning of the inquiry, the article by Andrei Hvostov, which produced so many rumors and huge comments and brought up similar cases, is recalled. Listening to your answers, I had a desire to expand the subject a little bit. For me, this question has been decided because of religious beliefs, and I would say yes, but after Hvostov's article some time, however, the possibility of legitimising euthanasia in Estonian society was discussed, as has been done in Switzerland, for example. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U100	Thank you. I am certainly not in favour of this, and I am much less in favour of the attitude that the author of this article wrote in his story. He wrote publicly about giving a deadly amount of medication to an elderly person close to him. It really hurt me to read it. I think it hurts a lot of people to read it. I do not want to comment in any way on this particular story, but as a person for whom this area is known much longer than the Social Security Minister's office, I say that I would not do that to my loved ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U101	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U102	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You said there weren't enough places in nursing homes for the elderly. I agree with you. But the story is, these places and their programs are practically under local government. The most difficult thing is not to create the new place where an elderly person can be brought, the worst is what needs to be done afterwards, because every place requires money from the local government budget. I mean, maybe it would be nice if the country had a program to increase the number of places, and you could say every year, you see, we got 50, 60, 100 more seats. What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U103	Thank you. As has been said, it is not all about Estonia that there are too few places in nursing homes, because we have more than 500 places in all of Estonia than there are people who use the service. However, there is a queue of places in certain institutions and regions. It is also true that many older people are covered by local authorities for their share of the service costs, and I think that this makes sense for those who do not have loved ones or whose loved ones do not have the opportunity to pay this amount between the pension and the place payment. At the same time, there are many Estonian families who, even though they do not live in great luxury and their incomes are not great, find the opportunity to provide their parents and grandparents with a place in an institution where they are cared for and cared for professionally. I think that this is not only a subject recorded in the family law, but it is entirely human and natural that, just as we care for our children and do everything in our power to ensure that our children do well, we do everything in our power, even when our parents need care and love. This debate, as you rightly said, was active in Estonian society. For many, it was a new subject, but for many, it is a very familiar subject, and in the case of a very large number of people, I also saw a lack of understanding as to how there may be people in society who do not want to care about their parents. This is also the attitude I have felt very much as a minister, because, whatever it takes, people will step up on these issues and talk to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U104	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U105	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! The way it's done with informal care, these folks want to get some rest sometimes. For this purpose, there is an interval of care and, depending on whether a person needs more care or health care, he or she can be placed in a nursing home or in a nursing hospital. But there are no places in care hospitals and there are no places in home care, which should be more promising than institutional care, there is also a lack of money from the Health Insurance Fund contract, so it is not possible to provide services to everyone. When the Health Insurance Fund discussed the first quarter of this year's report, it turned out that 95% of the cost of care treatment was spent and there was more than 5%. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U106	Thank you. That's what we talked about in the Health Insurance Board, which you're a member of. Let's just say that nursing care is different from nursing care and is largely financed by the health insurance fund. But also in care care, especially in home care, there are plans to significantly increase treatment volumes. We know that in recent years there has been a significant increase, and next year there will also be an increase in nursing care or care treatment with the old name 'care care', the new name'service', the number of inpatient places. It grows to 2,500 places, which experts estimate to be in line with Estonia's demand or needs. Also, as you well know, in the coming years we have planned to increase the amount of nursing care in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, which is going to grow faster than the money available for specialised medical care or any other type of assistance. In other words, the availability of home visits and inpatient services will improve year after year. However, in addition to home care, we also want to use home care when coming back to nursing homes, and we can support home care with European Union funds. These are different sources of funding, one is the Health Insurance Fund, the other is the State and the European Union, but both of them are important, and they are a little involved, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U107	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Let's open the negotiations. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U108	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! I think Andrei Hvostov is one of the best and most moral, I would say, journalists with a conscience in Estonia. Personally, I always read his stories very carefully and take a very respectful view of them. Convict him for the thoughts he expressed in this quoted article is about the same as condemning Dostoyevsky for describing Raskolnikov's pain or what he did in the end. Hvostov raised a very serious problem, and my experience as the head of the municipality shows that these problems are enormous, those where people simply cannot cope with the care of the patient and, for one reason or another, it is impossible to find this guardian who will ensure all the necessary care. So this problem has been raised in time and needs to be addressed, because the logical improvement in the lack of care is the same euthanasia. Once again, I would like to mention that within 60 seconds, it may not be possible to ask a question in such a way that both the question itself and the attitude are understandable. This may have made it look like I was sharing the Minister's attitude specifically with Andrei Hvostov. I do not share the attitude expressed by the Minister. Andrei Hvostov is a man of respect and high morals, and I came here to say this, so that at least that is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U109	Thank you very much. Any more calls? Please, a chance to speak to the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U110	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I don't want to talk about specific cases at all. But since words and assessments were put in my mouth here, you can't just ignore it. I do not want to give any man an assessment of how he stands up for his loved ones. However, as a citizen, as a citizen even more than a minister, this article affected a number of things in my eyes. It was that when you read carefully, the family found a way to move in with an elderly relative, but did not find a way to provide quality services to him. I didn't know the exact circumstances as a page reader, but I didn't know that, according to the description, a person who clearly needed 24 hours of outside help was left home alone for a long day's work. Thirdly, as I said, it was very disturbing when an elderly person is spoken of in a third person in such a way as to consider what would be the case if he was given a larger amount of medication than he was prescribed. I say it was very painful for me to read as a citizen. We know that there are more places in nursing homes in Estonia than there are customers. I can give those who wish several examples of nursing homes where the place fee is either EUR 500 or just over EUR 500, i.e. the proportion paid by the members of the family for retirement is around EUR 200 per month or even less, and where a very high-quality 24-hour care home service can be obtained. There are very, very many of these examples across Estonia. One of them, which can be called immediately, is also located in Ida-Virumaa. I don't think there's a county where there's no such example. It is therefore wrong for us to leave society with the view that it is better to start talking about euthanasia than about how we care for our parents and grandparents. It makes no sense to me that this is the way to view it. And I also stress that, in the case of those people, those families for whom 200 euros per month is unsurpassably difficult to pay, of course, there are also those in Estonia, the municipality must find a way of compensating. I'll give you an example from Hiiumaa. I asked several rural municipality leaders, asked the head of the nursing home how it is, how it is in Hiiumaa, which is not a particularly prosperous county, a perfectly good Estonian average, it is possible to ensure that people can use the service, how many families pay for themselves and how many are paid by municipalities. Everyone confirmed it as one mouth: a small community, we know everyone, we don't leave anyone in trouble, most families can handle it, but if they really can't, of course no one will be left unattended. Now that's the attitude we need more in society. I stress once again: just as natural as loving our children and caring for our children must also be that we love our parents and, if necessary, take care of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U111	Thank you. Yana Toom, line on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U112	Thank you, Madam President. I am very sorry, but I was very touched by the part of the Minister's speech where Mr. Clothes reminded me of the minister. I don't understand why we have to evaluate Andrei Hvostov's writing, his life, his circumstances, and so on. There is a problem and we should solve the problems here, not appreciate how a person writes. He does this sincerely and honestly, and believe me, there are dozens of families in Estonia who think the same way. We may like it or not, but it's just the way it is. Let us not judge them here, but try to help their loved ones!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U113	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. Let us close the debate on this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U114	We will go to the next question, which is the inquiry into dental care submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Eldar Efendijev, Enn Eesmaa, Priit Toobali, Ester Tuiksoo, Peeter Võsa, Viktor Vassilyev, Kadri Simson, Jüri Ratas, Aivar Riisalu, Lauri Laas, Marika Tuus-Lauli and Valeri Korb, Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas on 23 May 2013 (No 342). I'm asking for a speech chair at Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U115	Madam President, thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Inquiry concerns dental care benefits. From 1 January 2009, persons over 19 years of age will not be able to claim compensation for dental care provided to them. Health-insured and uninsured adults are entitled to dental care free of charge only as emergency care, in other words, only if non-treatment could cause permanent damage to the health of those in need or result in the death of those in need. The right to dental care and dental prosthetic benefits is currently limited to inability pensioners, old-age pensioners and over 63 years of age. The annual dental benefit is 19.18 euros, which is about the cost of two injections of painkillers. All these persons must be insured. For mothers of pregnant women and children under 1 year of age, the benefit rate is EUR 28,77 per year. Dental prosthetic benefits are eligible for occupational disability pensioners, old-age pensioners and over 63-year-olds insured for an amount of EUR 255.65 and every three years. The loss of dental benefits for adult persons has led to a significant deterioration in the availability of dental care services. People do not go to the dentist at the right time because of neglect, but because the dentist is too expensive. The doctor's consultation alone costs €15,25 and 30,70 per piece depending on the material and the volume. As a result, very many people do not have enough money for dental care. In this regard, we are going to ask Mr Kõivas four questions, and I hope that the Minister will read them out when he starts answering questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U116	Thank you. I'm asking for Secretary of State for Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The first question: 'When will the dental care allowance be restored to persons over 19 years of age? ' And the second question immediately: 'According to data from the Statistical Office, the availability of dental care decreased even further in 2012 compared to 2011, and the dental service did not have access to 8.6% of those in need. How do you think you can improve access to dental care? ' If I may, I will answer these two questions together. I would like to stress that I certainly agree with the availability of upholstery care is a very important issue; we have discussed this repeatedly in the Ministry and, more generally, with partners. Healthy teeth are an integral and important part of human health, so the questions are very correct and justified. Clearly, the most important thing is proper oral hygiene and a tooth - friendly diet. People's expectations, as if the dentist kept their teeth healthy, are basically out of date by health professionals. Nor can it be accepted that the popular view that there is a great deal of money to keep your teeth up. The subject of oral hygiene is much wider, and the emphasis is certainly on prevention, but I would point out once again that there is also a place to talk about aid. In its development plan for the next four years, the Health Insurance Fund has set out a series of activities to ensure better access to healthcare and one of them is the analysis of changes and possibilities for the payment of dental care benefits and the submission of solutions and proposals to correct the principles of reimbursement of dental care. The analysis is expected to be completed in the autumn of this year. The government has agreed on the principle of more support for those in real need of assistance when granting grants. Therefore, the need-based payment of dental benefits is under consideration. Question 3: "How many people are paid dental care and dental prosthetic benefits? ' The protégé was paid to 42327 people last year, children's dental care paid for 301247 cases, orthodontics for 44864 cases of treatment, dental prevention for 19778 cases of treatment, and adults for unavoidable dental care in 19225 cases. Question 4: 'In recent years, dental care for people with special needs has given rise to discussion. Since 2012, all persons with special needs over 19 years of age have the opportunity to receive dental care at the University of Tartu's Stomatology Clinic in general anesthesia. What is the state of negotiations with the various hospitals in Tallinn? When is there hope of providing the medical service mentioned in Tallinn for all those in need? ' Narcoses can still only be used by adults with deep mental disabilities, not by all people over 19 years of age with special needs. Depending on the disability and the severity of the disability, access to and provision of healthcare is more difficult. For example, dental care normally provided to persons with mental disabilities is not understandable, which makes it difficult to treat. Consequently, special measures and a special office or unit with an anesthetic device and a post anesthetic surveillance room are required. Of course, the availability of an anesthesiologist must be guaranteed. The dentist providing the service must also be experienced and trained to work with people with mental disabilities. In view of the financial possibilities, the Ministry of Social Affairs has started to step by step to create conditions for dental care under anesthesia. It is true that adults with deep mental disabilities can receive dental care with general anaesthesia at the University of Tartu Hospital, where a separate unit has been furnished to the day surgery centre. In order to provide such health care in general, all over Estonia or at least in Tallinn, you must have a licence. We have spoken to all major hospitals in the Northern Estonia region, but the authorisation required to provide dental care services is the only one in West Tallinn Central Hospital who has not yet found a way to treat adults with mental disabilities under anesthesia. We have also negotiated with North-Estonian Regional Hospital and East-Tallinn Central Hospital, but as has been said, they do not yet have a license to provide dental care services. In addition, we have carried out a procurement procedure, but the tendering procedure has ended because no tenders were submitted for the provision of the service. It is clear that we will continue the negotiations. We would like dental care with general anaesthesia to be available not only in South Estonia but also in Northern Estonia, and I would point out that not all people with special needs are affected, but also adults with deep mental disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U118	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U119	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, You mentioned that it was as if the government was discussing a need-based dental benefit or being prepared to deal with it. Can you talk about this a little bit more and tell me what the compensation rate is? Let us be honest, the benefits we are talking about are non-existent in the sense that there is nothing to be done with a dentist if you have 19 euros in your pocket. What do you think is necessity, and what are we talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U120	Thank you. I believe that what is necessary is what we all understand. In addition to the Ministry of Social Affairs, we have discussed this issue in a forum where we are discussing all the major health issues. It is a working group on the Health Good Will Agreement, a forum where doctors, nurses, representatives of hospitals and higher education institutions are at the table, students are represented in all health professions. It is a forum with more than 20 parties to address all issues relating to the future of healthcare. As I said, we have planned an analysis by autumn and asked for proposals on what needs-based dental care support might be. I can assure you that we understand the issues in the same way here. I, too, believe that if we are not able to guarantee this service to everyone, we must at least find ways of paying needs-based support in adult dental care. Tooth health is an important part of general health and we are working to create treatment opportunities. As you well know, any support can be much higher if it is needs-based and primarily for those who need it more economically. The balance between the number and the amount of people definitely needs to be discussed thoroughly with people in the health field. Here, I wouldn't want to give you a firm draft before autumn.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U121	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U122	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When we're talking about dental care, it's just a matter of children. I know there's a plan to build 15 state secondary schools. Is there any idea that dental clinics have ever been discussed in these upper secondary schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U123	Thank you. That's an interesting question! I will be honest with you that this should be answered in writing. I'm not entirely sure if 15 are planned to do this. I believe that this can be answered exhaustively in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U124	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U125	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! In fact, our dental concept is very beautiful: we fix the teeth for free for children, then they have no major problems as adults. But what about people who are 45 to 65 years old, who do not need a pair of seals, but need to replace the missing teeth, build bridges, make prosthetics? These things cost hundreds and even thousands of euros! Can you say anything comforting to these people? They're not guilty of anything, not even Soviet tooth technology. It is a simple progress that technology changes over the years, but people, especially those living in rural areas, are completely toothless. What comforting can you tell them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U126	Thank you. Dear colleague, we can discuss this together in the Health Insurance Board when the Health Insurance Fund makes its proposals. I believe that, regardless of whether people live in the city or in the countryside, the possibility of receiving dental care compensation on an ad hoc basis should also be available for adults. What balance will be between the number of people and the specific amounts, and what treatment cases the state can compensate for, we need to discuss this very thoroughly, looking together at the budget. Despite the fact that the number of recipients of this service is currently limited to children and the elderly, the Health Insurance Fund receives almost EUR 20 million each year for dental care, over EEK 300 million. This is also an important amount for the country. At the same time, we know that dental care is for people, in the sense of ownership, of health care services after medicines No 2. While medicines account for 41% of people's health care expenditure, dental care accounts for about one fifth, which is a very large and significant part. If we can improve the situation here, I think it makes perfect sense. However, I am not quite sure that it can be done in such a way that we pay everyone for dental care without limit. I think that a needs-based system is more real and more affordable for the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U127	Thank you very much. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. This item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U128	We will go to the next question, which is the inquiry submitted on 21 May by Priit Toobali, Valeri Korb, Peeter Võsa, Enn Eesmaa, Heimar Leng, Vladimir Velman, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Lauri Laas and Tarmo Tamme, Minister of the Environment, for the processing of the draft package law (No 338). Priit Toobal's chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 21 May this year, together with a number of colleagues from the Centre Party Group, we submitted an inquiry to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimitus, concerning the processing of the draft package law. The National Audit Office has already pointed to numerous shortcomings in the Packaging Act in the audit report "Performance of collection and recovery of packaging waste' published in December 2010. According to the National Audit Office, in 2009 approximately 64 million euros in taxes were not collected to the state due to the lack of transparency and uncontrollability of the system, which is over 1 billion kroons in old currency. Practice has shown that setting recovery fees, collecting them on an equal footing, as well as further use, which should be transparent, is very unclear and uncontrolled. In the report of the packaging audit, the National Audit Office presented proposals for amending the Packaging Act, which has resulted in a draft. The Ministry of the Environment has accepted most of the proposals in the discussions on the audit report, but the draft has not yet reached the Riigikogu for processing. Collection and recovery of packaging is an area curated by the Ministry of the Environment and where earning income depends on the rules created through the Ministry of the Environment and the Environmental Committee of the Riigikogu. The production and logistics manager Anti Tammeoksa, who was one of the main actors of waste law as a member of the Riigikogu in the Committee on the Environment, together with Rain Rosimnus, is considered to be the leading figure of the Estonian Packaging Circular. In connection with this and the Autorollo scandal that has been the focus of the whole media, we have asked the Minister a total of seven questions. Let us hope that the Minister will read it before answering the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U130	Thank you. I now ask the Minister for the Environment of the Riigikogu's speech chair Keit Pentus-Rosimitud to answer the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U131	Good chairman of the sitting! Good heirs! Since you once again mentioned the figures in the National Audit Office's report several years ago in your introduction, I will start with them. In preparing your inquiry, you may have overlooked the fact that the Minister of the Environment at the time already paid the National Audit Office's attention in the course of the audit to the fact that the calculations of the National Audit Office were deeply erroneous. In particular, the National Audit Office also considered to a significant extent plastic packaging waste which is not subject to excise duty as the basis for packaging excise duties. The method on which the possible amount of excise duty forgone was assessed was indirect and the basic data on even the non-recoverability of excise duty of any size was not sufficiently reliable. What I read here now is set out in the reply of the then Minister for the Environment, which he has already given in the course of the audit. But now specifically to your questions. The first question: 'You have worked as Minister of the Environment since spring 2011. Why has the draft amendment to the Packaging Act not yet been submitted to the Riigikogu for processing? ' My answer is that very serious work has indeed been done on the draft packaging law, just as it must be done. Important improvements came into the draft law from the Packaging Commission. The Package Committee is known to include experts from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Agriculture, representatives of the Consumer Protection Board, the Competition Board and the Tax and Customs Board, as well as representatives of the municipality. The representative of Tallinn will also take part in the work of this committee. After the last adjustments or suggestions, the bill has been sent back to the Ministry of Justice for coordination, as foreseen. After that, it will also be possible to submit a draft to the government and then, of course, the draft will be able to discuss it with you. Your second question reads: 'Have you, as a minister, instructed officials to pay less attention to the draft amendment to the Packaging Act and to delay its drafting? " The guidelines given to officials, if you could call them that, have been exactly the opposite. I do not want to make any reproach here either, because this is indeed a work involving, as I mentioned in the previous question, very many ministerial experts, and I think that this work has been done seriously. Of course, work could always be done faster, but haste is sometimes the kind of thing you can complain about. Question 3: 'Has the draft law amending the Packaging Act been drawn up because of the private interests of you or your spouse and friends? " The draft law has not been drafted, and the clue in your question is frankly offensive and, in my opinion, completely inappropriate. Question 4: 'Has the Estonian Package Circulation moved money to your family-related association OÜ Autorollo? ' The company named by the heirs has once belonged to my father. One of the three board members of this company has been my father. But I ask you to ask your questions about the business of this company to those people who have and can have the authority to give them answers and who can even have these answers. It is also reasonable to ask the NGO for these answers, as the persons involved can have such information. I do not have the information that something such as you claim on your question has happened. Question 5: 'Have you personally proposed amendments to the Packaging Act during the drafting process and what are these proposals? ' I also looked at the signatures under questioning. After all, you are all experienced Members of this House, and I believe that you are quite well aware of how one draft is being drafted and how the drafts are being produced. They are the result of discussions, the search for solutions, and I can see that this would be a very serious problem if the minister responsible for the subject were not involved in these discussions or if the bill were not born. So, of course, my role is also to contribute to the legitimacy of the draft legislation, and my proposals for this particular draft law have been focused on ensuring greater transparency and, at the same time, more effective control. Question 6: How much is estimated to remain due to the lack of control and the lack of transparency of recovery organisations? " As already pointed out today in the responses to the two inquiries, excise duty has just increased. So it can be said that the situation, as well as the control, has become much better in recent years. The amendment made at the end of the previous parliamentary term, which made it impossible to produce ex post re-use certificates, has certainly played a role in this, and as a result, the collection of packaging excise duties has probably improved. So, if Mr Stalnukhin here with one of the respondents to the question, why is it that the collection of excise duties on packaging has improved so much, then in 2011 one of these reasons has probably been a change in the rules, which also significantly improved the collection of excise duties on packaging. The seventh question to me is this: 'Have you considered resigning from a ministerial seat because of a conflict of interest? ' My interest as Minister for the Environment is to do my job as best as possible and is aimed at preserving and protecting Estonia's natural environment. I don't have any conflicts about this interest. Thank you, good heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U132	Thank you, Minister. You have at least one question. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When the Prime Minister answered questions about the same subject earlier, he vexed with us that it was as if we did not respect the presumption of innocence. What am I saying? Presumption of innocence is a very important issue for me, an important truth. But in your case, this scandal has come up, and there's no way it's gonna go down in the media. I'm sure you have your point of view who has arranged this scandal for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U134	Thank you. I don't want to go that way of speculation here. As the last few days or weeks have witnessed, this baseless campaign is likely to have some political drives. Who exactly are they? I don't know, maybe you know it better than I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U135	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U136	Let's move on to the eighth question. It was presented by members of the Riigikogu Lauri Laas, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Vladimir Velman, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Valeri Korb, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toom and Kadri Simson on 22 May 2013. The enquiry shall bear the number 341 and shall concern the appointment of members of the management or control bodies of the associations established by the State. Reply by Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Riigikogu member Lauri Laas to introduce the inquiry to the public!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Indeed, on 22 May the representatives of the Central Party Group presented this question. The content of the inquiry is as follows: The issue of the appointment of persons to boards of state companies has also been raised in connection with the recent bankruptcy procedure of Autorollo, which has given rise to much discussion in the media. As Minister of the Environment, on your proposal, one third of the members have been appointed to the Board of the Environmental Investment Centre of the Foundation, whose chairman you are in post. You also control other companies established by the State. It has been claimed that the manning of implementing entities providing euro support, such as EAS and KIK, management and control bodies with persons suitable for the Reform Party and the IRL, has created an infallible system in which they receive euro support from suitable persons for the coalition in power. Here are four questions. The Minister can either confirm or disprove the statement on our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U138	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be answered by the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimitud!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U139	Good manager! Good heirs! I'll go straight to the questions you've asked. The first question: 'What are the grounds for the appointment of persons to the management or control bodies of associations established by the State in the area of administration of the Ministry of the Environment? These are found in the laws and also in the statutes of specific associations. As much of the introduction to your inquiry concerned the Environmental Investment Centre, the Environmental Investment Centre has also approved the Supervisory Board's rules of procedure, which provides, for example, that a member of the Supervisory Board may not take part in the vote if a decision is taken to make a transaction with him, or with a person of equal economic interest to him or her, or to initiate or close a dispute with him or her by the Environmental Investment Centre. In the same way, the Anti-Corruption Act extends to all members of the Environmental Investment Centre's management or control bodies as well as to staff members and not only to all members of the evaluation committee. These criteria are beautifully stated in the laws and statutes. When it comes to KIK, as you know, there are nine members of the KIK Board, four of whom are appointed by a decision of the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu and four by the founder's rights. The Minister of the Environment belongs to the council by post. The founder shall appoint three members of the Council on a proposal from the Minister for the Environment. You may also know that in the case of KIK, the founding right is exercised not by the Ministry of the Environment, but by the Ministry of Finance. The members of the Supervisory Board shall be appointed for a period of three years. The nominee shall always be entitled to recall the member of the Supervisory Board. The second question: 'How is it ensured that the conflicts of interest between the members of the management or control bodies of the associations established by the State are avoided in the case of KIC and other associations within the scope of the ministry which you control? " It is usually guaranteed by statutory requirements, but also by statutory requirements, for the collection of data on compliance with these requirements and for continuous verification. As I have read in response to the previous question, the Rules of Procedure of the KIC Board, for example, provides that a member of the Council may not take part in the vote if the decision is to make a transaction with him or with a person of equal economic interest. There are still requirements to be met. The third question: "Have the members of the management or control bodies of the associations governed by the Ministry of the Environment experienced conflicts of interest in relation to their private interests? " The answer is no. Question 4: Has there been a division within the Government of the Republic, over which companies the Reform Party exercises power and over which companies the IRL? ' Ownership rights in companies, founding rights in foundations and membership rights in non-profit organisations are exercised by different ministries according to their respective fields of activity, depending on the area of government of the particular ministry of which the activities of a private legal person primarily belong. That's what this distribution comes from, and I think it's pretty well known to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U140	Good minister! You have at least one question. Lauri Laasi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U141	Thank you. Madam Minister! Your coalition partner considers that members of the Riigikogu should not belong to the councils of state companies. How do you comment and what assessment do you make of the fact that a member of the Riigikogu, Liisa-Ly Pakosta, belongs to the Riigikogu as a representative of your coalition partner? Isn't that eating your own words? What is your assessment of this as a coalition partner?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U142	Thank you. This is certainly not about eating words, nor is it about going against them. RMK is not a company. RMK is a profit-making state institution and Liisa-Ly Pakosta has been appointed to its council, if I am not mistaken now, by the Riigikogu itself. In my opinion, it is very reasonable and very good that the members of the Riigikogu participate in the work of this council, for example, when I come across the work of the Environmental Investment Centre on a daily basis. I think that applies equally to RMK. But really, RMK is not a company, it is a profit-making state institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U143	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U144	Good fellows! Now everyone has the opportunity to register for a free microphone speech after the hammer hit. So I look forward to active participation! I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U145	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Last Saturday, a very important event took place for Narva and all of Ida-Virumaa. On Saturday, I saw for over five years that there were, according to my estimate, 11000 people who had gathered in one place, and there were two other places in Narva, on a smaller scale. This crowd isn't so easy to get together. Five years ago, more or less the same number of people came to the demonstration after the Bronze Night on 9 May, before that was the last time that so many people got together, perhaps in the late 1980s during the People's Front. Why did these people come together? For the first time in almost 800 years of history, the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church visited Narva and this person found the right and very balanced words aimed at all ordinary people, local government leaders, leaders of state. All of us who shared our impressions after the visit of Patriarch Kirill had the conviction that this person did more in three days to improve relations between Russia and the Republic of Estonia than any politician has managed to do in the last ten years. It seemed that Estonia could thank the patriarch for his visit. This visit had a clear focus on finding a common language, talking about values that are precious and close to our hearts. Unfortunately, neither the day of deportation nor during the visit of Patriarch Kirill had time for one or another to attend. He should have been the person who would have thanked the patriarch for what he did. I think you, who are in this Chamber now, will definitely join me in wishing to say great and very warm thanks to Patriarch Kirill for what he could do here in three days. But I hope that the Riigikogu and, in particular, the Riigikogu Board will also be able to express their gratitude and do so not only in words, but formally by sending a letter corresponding to the patriarch. I think he's worth it. Thank you, and once again thank you to Kirill for what he did here in three days! That was really nice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-17_U146	Thank you. I don't see any more requests. That's the end of the free microphone. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 6.08 p.m.
