ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Minister. We will begin the Monday session of the sixth working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. First of all, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U2	Madam Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. First, the draft state budget law. Second, the draft law amending the 2013 State Budget Act. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Customs Act, the Penal Code and the Law on the Export, Export and Import of Cultural Goods. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi in the proceedings of these three draft laws in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Land Reform Act. Siim Valmar Kiisler, Minister of Regional Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U3	Thank you. On behalf of the governing board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four draft laws. If these drafts comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to process them within three working days. Now some messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Committee of Inquiry on the processing and settlement of claims brought together by the VEB Fund. a Amendment of the decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry to the Riigikogu in order to determine the circumstances in which the claims are processed and met', submitted on 16 October, was adopted by the Riigikogu Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and by the Estonian Centre Party Group. a draft law amending the Civil Service Act, initiated on 17 October, of which the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Board of the Riigikogu has decided to change the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Consumer Protection Act, initiated on 15 October, has been appointed by the Executive Commission for Legal Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded to the European Union Affairs Committee the Government of the Republic. a Single Market for electronic communications launched by the European Commission on 18 October. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions, communication and draft regulation of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. November 7th at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks. I shall vote on the adoption of this week's agenda. Please vote! 77 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U4	The answer to the question begins. Members of the Riigikogu Kalev Kotkas, Andres Anvelt, Neeme Suur, Kalvi Tuld, Eiki Nestor, Jaak Allik, Helmen Küttt, Urve Palo, Jaan Õunapuu, Rannar Vassiljev, Indrek Saar, Heljo Pikhof, Sven Mikko, Mart Meri and Karel Rüütli submitted s. a On 19 September, a hearing was held on the role of the Ministry of Social Affairs in reducing drug deaths (No 357). Mr Kalev Eagle, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Social Affairs! Members of the Social Democratic Party have asked the Minister of the Interior and the Prime Minister several times during the working hours of the XII Riigikogu about the number of drug deaths in Estonia. We repeatedly drew the Minister of the Interior's attention to the fact that the high number of drug deaths depends directly on too little attempts being made to reach street dealers. This year's tactics were changed and the Ministry of the Interior's priority, so-called drug lords, was added to the trapping of street dealers. As a result, the number of drug deaths decreased by 44% in the first quarter of this year. The effectiveness of the police's novel tactics is also demonstrated by the considerable increase in statistics related to drug crime. The Ministry of Social Affairs is known to play an important role in reducing the number of drug deaths. We therefore ask the Minister for Social Affairs to answer nine questions, which I am not going to read out, but to ask the Minister himself to do so before answering them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U6	Thank you very much, Mr Kalev Eagle. Now, please, Minister of Social Affairs of the Speaker's Office, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U7	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll answer your question. First of all, I would like to thank you for the very right and justified theme setting. Indeed, reducing the spread of drug addiction, preventing drug addiction and dealing with the consequences are issues that are not just within the domain of the Ministry of the Interior, but can be said to be almost all ministries involved in this by one side or another, the Ministry of Social Affairs certainly among others. But let's get to the questions. Question 1: 'A measure to reduce drug addiction in the public health development plan aims to reduce drug deaths. What has been done in 2012 and 2013 to reduce drug deaths in the government area of the Ministry of Social Affairs? What has been the regional impact? The Ministry of Social Affairs is responsible for prevention activities, harm reduction activities, treatment and rehabilitation. In addition to measures to reduce drug addiction, some activities, such as needle exchange and drug treatment, HIV and AIDS prevention, are reflected. I will read out the main activities concerning 2012 and 2013: offering outpatient and inpatient drug treatment to adults and minors (narcomania treatment is also provided in detention facilities at the Ministry of Justice's funding), providing anti-dependency rehabilitation to adults and minors, training specialists in drug prevention, harm reduction, treatment and anti-drug rehabilitation, training on overdose prevention, syringe exchange with the aim of reducing the spread of HIV and other viruses, providing counselling services to addicts and their relatives, conducting field monitoring and research (e.g. we have study 'Health Behaviour of Estonian School Students'), developing and distributing various information materials in Estonian and Russian (including 'How to deal with overdoses'? ' or 'Let's talk about drugs'), I also mention www.narko.ee. In 2013, a naloxone programme was also launched to reduce the number of deaths directly due to an overdose of a drug. Naloxone is simply saying an antidote that can be used if very strong drugs are consumed and symptoms of overdose arise. Question 2: "What methods does the Ministry of Social Affairs plan to deal with drug deaths in 2014? ' The 2014 budget for drugrelated activities in the Ministry of Social Affairs is around EUR 4 million. Next year it is planned to expand the naloxone programme already started this year to reduce the number of overdose-related deaths of the drug and to continue all the activities listed above, i.e. the provision of treatment, rehabilitation and counselling services. It is important to stress that next year will be the year in which much of the expenditure paid so far from the European Social Fund will have to be financed from the Estonian state budget. I am pleased that we have been able to do this (assuming, of course, that Parliament supports the state budget in this form, but at least in the draft budget that the government has submitted, it is in it) and we will be able to continue to provide these services with the resources of the Estonian state. Question 3: 'When will the promised naloxone programme be realised to reduce drug deaths? ' With a pilot programme aimed at reducing the number of deaths due to overdose, the first week of September 2013 began in Tallinn and Jõhvi. 500 units of the medicine in the form of pre-filled syringes were obtained under the leadership of the Institute for Health Development and distributed to the first participants. In 2014, we have planned to expand the service on the basis of this year's data. If training is offered in 2013 and naloxone is issued in two regions, Tallinn and Jõhvi, then next year the programme will be extended to other areas and distributed to other institutions. Initially, we intend to issue a thousand doses of medicine next year, but the final number will depend on the actual need and the number of members of the target group who have completed the training. Question 4: '2011. The 2002 ESPAD study points out that over the years, young people have not experienced a decline in drug use. What tools have been allocated to preventing drug addiction in the government area of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and what methods are planned to achieve a reduction in young people's drug use? ' This year, the Ministry of Social Affairs has a budget of around EUR 3.5 million for the wider implementation of drug addiction activities and a further EUR 235000 contribution from the European Social Fund. I must say that it is quite difficult to say exactly which part goes into prevention and which part goes elsewhere, because the various activities are very closely interwoven. Moreover, this particular amount does not give the full picture that the universal prevention principle, which affects not only drugs but also tobacco and alcohol consumption, or reduces risk behaviour in general, is being applied. The aim of a wide range of activities is also to develop the capacity and skills of professionals working with children and young people at local level so that they can do drug prevention work more effectively in their daily work. These include teachers, youth and social workers, police officers, etc. I have a rather long list of examples of prevention, but I think it makes more sense to save time if I send it to you in writing. If you have any questions, we can continue to communicate. In terms of prevention, it is important to stress that the Ministry of Education and Research and our cooperation with them also play a very important role here, as we believe that the issue of risk behaviour must be an integral part of school education. Question 5: "How many people are guaranteed drug treatment at the moment? ' In 2013, it is planned to provide treatment, rehabilitation and counselling services for 1800 to 1900 people. Last year, 1157 people received outpatient treatment and 185 people received institutional care. This year's figure, which will appear by the end of the year, is likely to remain in the same order of magnitude. Drug treatment financed by the state budget offers a number of institutions: Health Centre Hope for Life, Wismar Hospital, West Tallinn Central Hospital, University of Tartu Hospital, Asa Hospital, Corrigo, Narva Dependencies Centre and Tallinn Children's Hospital. Question 6: 'How much resources are foreseen to increase the number of dependent care services and rehabilitation facilities from the state budget and from the European Union Structural Fund in 2014? ' The precise action plan for both the state budget and the European Social Fund is still under preparation, the final action plans, together with the resources allocated to the activities, will be approved in December this year. In the state budget, we have planned about EUR 4 million for drugrelated activities. But it must be stressed that there are a lot of different sources here. As I have already said, some activities, apart from drug prevention, are also linked to the prevention of alcoholism and smoking. In addition to the state budget, many important constructions and services are also planned with the support of Norwegian programmes, including the establishment of a new children's mental health centre in the courtyard of Tallinn Children's Hospital. These construction works are about to begin. According to memory, the size of the facility is six million euros, along with the children's hospital's contribution. The same mental health centre for children, not as a construction project, but as a service project, we also plan to provide services in Tartu, Ida-Virumaa, Pärnu and Viljandi. Such mental health centres help to reduce children's risk of drug addiction and, to deny it, also help to treat addiction. Question 7: "What happens to addicts after they are released from treatment? How are services provided to integrate addicts into society? ' After stopping treatment, a former addict is able to receive rehabilitation services. It is currently financed by the state at the Sillamäe Drug Rehabilitation Centre, where there are 26 inpatient places for men, and Viljandi Hospital in the Centre for the Treatment and Rehabilitation of Dependent Patients, where there are 10 places for women in Estonia, as well as 10 places for men. Rehabilitation develops social coping skills, provides therapy, including family therapy, provides psychological and psychiatric counselling and work therapy, assists in finding a job, and also provides counselling services for people with addiction problems. Question 8: "What is being done to ensure that the staff and psychiatrists in Estonia who have been trained to provide treatment for addiction? " At present, it is only psychiatrists who are in charge of drug abuse. In order to ensure the training of trained staff, negotiations have been launched to provide doctors with training programmes in order to enable them to acquire additional competences. In addition to doctors, nurses, clinical psychologists, occupational Rapids and social workers will certainly play an important role in providing treatment for addiction. Question 9: "How to use the existing hospital network to ensure drug treatment? " It is already the existing hospital network that is being implemented in both drug treatment and rehabilitation services. Drug treatment is provided by West Tallinn Central Hospital, Tartu University Hospital and Tallinn Children's Hospital. The rehabilitation service, as I have already mentioned, is provided by Viljandi Hospital. At the moment, negotiations are also taking place with another hospital to start providing drug treatment. Pärnu Hospital, which has recently made very large investments in the development of a psychiatric clinic, can be mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U8	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U9	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much for your meaningful answers. But can the regional impact of the measures taken by the Ministry of Social Affairs be assessed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U10	Thank you. We know that drug addiction is most common in Northern Estonia, especially in Tallinn and Ida-Virumaa. It is also true that many of these services are specifically linked to these regions. At the same time, there are services where it is extremely important to move a person out of the normal environment. It is therefore quite good that both men and women are offered fixed rehabilitation services in Viljandi, for example. Maybe I'll simplify it a little, but I'll say, if alcoholism is a problem regardless of the county, then in terms of drug addiction, Tallinn and Ida-Viru County are very different from other regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U11	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U12	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! There is certainly a serious problem with drug addiction across Estonia, but you mentioned Ida-Viru County several times. One thing is direct methods, the other is circumstantial methods. For example, what IRL has offered can be considered an indirect method: to move to Ida-Virumaa, the Academy of Home Affairs. This should indirectly contribute to resolving this problem. Would you support this proposal in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U13	Thank you. The subject of the construction of the National Defence Academy goes a little beyond the limits of the question. In addition to the potential impact of the move of this institution on the security of Ida-Viru County or any region, a number of other factors have to be taken into account, including the fact that very large investments have been made in Muraste. We must not forget the possibilities of finding lecturers or staff in one region or another. You can't make one decision or another very easily here. But I think you'll agree with me when I say that the construction questions of the National Defence Academy will go out of a bit of the format of today's inquiry. Therefore, I would not be hasty to take any specific position.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U14	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U15	Thank you, Madam President. Minister of Social Affairs! There is no doubt that much has been done to solve this difficult problem in the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. I especially want to highlight Viljandi Hospital's treatment and rehabilitation centre for addicts, where there are places for both men and women. They do a very good job there. But these people would also need certain follow-up services. When they leave Viljandi or another treatment and rehabilitation centre, they need support to cope with everyday life. Is the 2014 budget intended for funds or projects to ensure that the results of treatment and rehabilitation are confirmed in the home country of the former addict? After all, they are once again at home, as they say, under the influence of bad friends.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U16	Thank you. I've had a long talk with these young men in Viljandi, and I believe, having looked at them, that they really want to be free of drugs. Many of them plan to move to another municipality. I spoke there with the young men of Tallinn who said that they wanted to go elsewhere, that the temptation would be less, so that they would not be reunited with the same company, the same world of temptation. It is also part of the following activities: If you go to another place, the risks may be much lower. It is certainly possible to provide some of the services you have talked about while these people receive rehabilitation services and thus prepare them as well as possible for future life. But I agree that we also need to keep a close eye on what happens after the rehabilitation has ended. Especially because rehabilitation services and inpatient services are very, very expensive for society, but the risk of a former addict re-using drugs, let us admit, is very high. I think that if, as a society, we contribute to bringing these people back to life, it is very right and very justified, but for this money to be used effectively and really to be saved, it is extremely important that, apart from rehabilitation, certain services are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U17	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U18	After my hammer strike, it is possible to register for an appearance in a free microphone. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U19	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Thank God it's over again. Through everything they usually bring with them: active propaganda based on semi-truth, twisting of truth, etc. However, it is rare for a candidate, especially someone who is considered to be a solid person, to use a direct lie. I quote to you a newspaper article (translated from Russian to Estonian): 'But I was most astonished and amused by Stalnukhin's words that Ossinovski was gay. " Jevgeni Ossinovski wrote those words. He claimed that I had said somewhere, whether in a show, in an official meeting, or in an article, that Jevgeni Ossinovski was gay. I never said that Jevgeni Ossinovski was gay. I haven't used synonyms, like gay, faggot, or anything. There are enough synonyms in Estonian. I have not argued that Ossinovski is gay because I simply have no factual material on this subject, except for the indirect fact that Ossinovsky is getting excited about this subject. I didn't say that, though. I didn't say Ossinovski was gay because I don't have a happy ability to determine if he's gay or not. I don't want that either. I just don't care if one person or another is gay, and I didn't say Ossinovski was gay. I don't give a shit about the sexual preference of one man or another. If I listen to the Tchaikovsky opera or enjoy Freddie Mercury's work, I don't care who they were in their personal lives. This page is full of this half-wrong and truth-wringing. Look, it's a disgrace to use such a lie. It's a disgrace, at least in terms of our level. Colleagues from the Social Democratic Party Group! I'm sorry that Evgeni isn't in this room right now, but I do have a proposal. I have this paper with me here. If Ossinovski proves that I've spoken or written such a thing, I'll eat the paper. But I have a suggestion that if he doesn't have the evidence to prove it, he'd eat the paper. If this happens in front of the cameras in the Chamber of Riigikogu, then perhaps colleagues will choose the words in the future and if they lie, they will understand that there may be some kind of punishment someday, ata-against the butt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-21_U20	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 3.29 p.m.
