ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the fifth working week of the 5th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U2	Madam President, thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Act on Victim Assistance and related amendments to other laws. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of this bill in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U3	Thank you. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Five members of the Alliance of Democrats have a question for the honourable Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. This concerns a long-awaited and urgent increase in the salary of the police and border guards. So far, information about wage increases has led to conflicting feelings among the employees of the PBGB. The increase in the level of the salary, the decrease in the number of grades and the change in regional fees, together with the bonuses, has led to a situation where the monthly salary of a police officer increased by EUR 0,44 in at least one particular case. Unfortunately, this is not a case-by-case situation. Such wage-setting may not be expected to provide adequate opportunities for the employees of the PBGB to cope with the overall increase in prices and the increase in the cost of services. Consequently, we have four questions for the Minister of the Interior. Was it known in advance which employees of the PBGB had no reason to expect an increase in wages? How does the PBGB plan to ensure adequate human resources through the current wage-setting process? When is it planned to examine whether wage setting met the objectives set and, if so, to what extent? Does the Ministry have a plan of action in place if it is confirmed that negative labour turnover has increased in the PPP compared to normal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U5	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U6	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Pursuant to § 36 (5) of the Security Authorities Act, the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities of the Riigikogu gives an overview of the Commission's activities and the supervision of security and surveillance authorities in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U7	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U8	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of six members of the Riigikogu, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Its theme is a corrupt official and its involvement in the Latvian Underworld. I'm sure you remember Indrek Moose's guilt. He was arrested on December 21st last year. In January next year, the Latvian Minister of the Interior announced that the Latvian security authorities were looking for links between the underworld characters of Põdra and Latvia. Some quite interesting people were mentioned, and dozens of articles can be found online. Ded Hasani, who is a mythological figure in this area, was mentioned among others. However, the Estonian public has not learned anything about studying this matter on the territory of Latvia. We want to know at least whether Indrek Põder went to Latvia for state money to meet with the authority of a criminal world called Sliva. We have a few more questions for the Minister of the Interior. We hope to get concrete answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U9	Thank you. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft law. If it complies with the provisions of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, it shall be submitted to proceedings within three working days. I have also accepted two inquiries. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, they shall be communicated to the addressees without delay. An overview has also been adopted which is not accepted, but is taken into account. Now to the messages. The governing board of the Riigikogu has taken Priit Toobali, Aadu Musta, Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toomi, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Repsi, Aivar Riisalu, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Heimar Lengi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Lauri Laasi, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Tarmo Tamme, Olga Sõtnik, Kalev Kalso, Valeri Korbi, Vladimir Velmani, Eldar Efendiev, Kadri Simson and Jüri Ratas to the proceedings. The draft Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia was initiated on 14 February 2004 and has appointed the Constitutional Commission as the leading committee for the election procedure of the President of the Republic. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. The following communications to the Commission on European Union affairs were submitted on 14 February 2004: Firstly, the European Commission's Communication 'An active energy market'. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the communication. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. February 28, 2010 at 4 p.m. Secondly, the European Commission Communication 'Protecting companies against misleading marketing practices and ensuring effective enforcement. Revision of Directive 2006/114/EC on misleading and comparative advertising'. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the communication. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. February 28, 2010 at 4 p.m. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. The members of the Riigikogu formed the parliament group of the Republic of Korea on Thursday of last week. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15. Let's get to the weekly agenda. You've been given your agenda. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the fifth working week of the fifth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U10	We're going to answer questions. Members of the Riigikogu Ester Tuiksoo, Peeter Võsa, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Tarmo Tamm, Lauri Laasi, Kadri Simson, Kalev Kallo, Valeri Korb, Viktor Vassilyev, Enn Eesmaa, Yana Toom and Vladimir Velman submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder on 22 January 2013. In the name of the heirs, please speak to Ester Tuiksoo! Ladies and gentlemen, quiet in the Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, On 22 January, 12 members of the Centre Party Group submitted to the Minister for Agriculture a question on how we are coordinating the advisory system. As of now, the coordinating centre is with the Rural Promotion Foundation. The people of the advisory system, or consuls, who cooperate with it, are not satisfied with the situation and have sent a letter to the Committee on Rural Affairs on this subject. The sector is also dissatisfied. In this regard, we have asked the Minister four questions and now we are happy to hear his explanations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U12	Thank you. I'm asking for the Secretary of State for Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U13	Greetings, honourable Members of the Riigikogu and Honourable Head of the Riigikogu! I would like to thank the respondents for the questions they have asked, and I will try to provide exhaustive answers. The first question: 'The representatives of the Rural Advisory Centres consider that the Rural Promotion Foundation has not managed to coordinate the advisory system within three years. How do you comment on this statement? " Within three years, the Ministry of Agriculture and I, as a minister, have not been given any official address on the poor functioning of the advisory system as a whole under the coordination of the Rural Promotion Foundation. Agricultural consultative work has been a constant development in its history over 20 years. There have been many projects trying to clean up the consultative system. Since 2005, there was a concentration of individual consuls at the advisory centres, and in 2010 the Rural Development Foundation received an administrative task to act as a coordinating centre and developer of the advisory system. The development of the consultative system can only take place in multilateral cooperation, and changes naturally create uncertainty. In carrying out the task, MES did not act unilaterally, but commissioned various studies and held meetings. A joint action agreement was formalised and the development plan for Estonia's agricultural and rural economy advisory system was drawn up for the years 2012 to 2020, which was also signed. 27 rural economic organisations, including most consultative centres and producers' umbrella organisations, joined the JCA. According to this agreement, the idea of setting up an advisory organisation until the summer of 2012 was pursued on the basis of farmers and other organisations. Unfortunately, what was desired did not materialise. The second question: 'Continuous changes hinder the normal functioning of the advisory services and the provision of services to the agricultural sector, according to the parties. What are the reasons why this system needs to be reorganized again? " Although surveys by users of existing advisory services have shown great satisfaction with the quality of services, there is still much room for improvement in the advisory system. At various meetings with producers, it remains to be said that, in certain areas and at certain levels, the advisory system does not provide the necessary advice to economic operators. I would point out, as an example, that while there are 54 in the field of rural entrepreneurship and the financial economy, 22 in livestock farming, 28 in forestry and 76 in community development, 12 in environmental protection and conservation there are only 2 in the area of land improvement, 1 in the area of co-operation and food management, there are, however, no consuls. There are therefore certainly reasons why the system should be further developed and reorganised, with a desire to improve it. Question 3: Will these changes in the advisory system be introduced at your command and knowledge? " No significant changes to the consultative system have been decided today. Of course, I am aware of the proposed changes and, if they are to be implemented, I am certainly aware of them and I welcome them. I can assure you that without the Minister's knowledge, no substantial changes will be made to the consultative system. Question 4: "What are the specific plans of the Minister for Agriculture for improving the situation and restoring farmers' satisfaction in the area of advice? ' As a result of the analysis, the Rural Development Foundation and the Ministry of Agriculture have committed themselves to developing a cross-Estonian consultative organisation and market-based advisory services by the beginning of the new programming period, 2014. The Rural Promotion Foundation has been an evaluable cooperation partner of the Ministry of Agriculture with its long-term activities in supporting rural development and implementing entrepreneurship-enhancing targeted programmes. In addition, the Rural Development Foundation, as a provider of loans, guarantees and grants and financial advice related to its core activity, has gained a reputation among producers. We therefore believe that the experience of the Rural Development Foundation will enable the agricultural and rural economy advisory system to be developed effectively. The conditions for applying for the "Support of advice services' measure of the Estonian Rural Development Plan 2014 to 2020 are being developed. Under Council Regulation No 73/2009, the Member States of the European Union have an obligation to establish an advisory system for advising farmers on agricultural land and farm management issues. The advisory system shall include at least statutory management requirements and standards for maintaining land in good agricultural and environmental condition. In addition, it is recommended to include a number of principles that are climate-friendly and environmentally sustainable as of 2014 as part of the consultative system. In the light of the new programming period, the details of publicly funded activities will be reviewed, including the financing of up to two hours of advisory services for farmers and the training of consuls. The transmission of information relating to the State aid requirement shall be integrated into the activities of the advisory system. It should be noted that the advisory system is only one of several information channels through which information is disseminated. No vision can better demonstrate the effectiveness of the changes than a genuine consultative organisation. Therefore, the establishment of an advisory organisation within the Rural Promotion Foundation was launched in autumn 2012 in order to consider in the future the possibility of transferring it to an organisation bringing together representatives of farmers, rural education, agricultural sciences and consuls. Unfortunately, such an organisation has not yet emerged. In 2014, the new financial period of the European Union will begin and the Republic of Estonia will also develop a new advisory measure within the framework of the rural development plan. That is why we will not have a new model for financing the consultative system for the next period, negotiations and preparations. However, I would like to stress that all proposals to improve the advisory system are welcome and the Ministry is prepared to consider all proposals so that, in the next period, the advisory system is as effective as possible and is primarily intended for the manufacturer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U14	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U15	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Your review was that order is good and order is not good. You've tried to reform, but it's more like breaking. Those who need advice also disagree. Larger companies receive the advice themselves, while smaller ones are struggling with it. Why has the State not come to the aid of producers' representatives? You've been negotiating with them, but it hasn't worked out. Has the state, for its part, made every effort to finally put the system in order?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U16	Thank you. There's a system. I think the consultative system has been so over the years that some things are good and some things are bad. So if you get the impression from my report that it's like it's okay and it's like it's bad, then it is. There are things that are very well and work. In general, the advice that producers receive is very satisfied with the satisfaction of over 80%. But there are areas in the consultative system where no advice is given. There is also polarisation: large companies themselves are able to buy advice on a market-based basis, even from abroad, but small ones are not able to do so. The situation is that there are good things and there are bad things. I think that in the future it will remain that we will not be able to create the perfect system, but we will try to do so. I think the Ministry is very well aware of the weaknesses that exist in the advisory system. What has the Ministry done and could have done more? In theoretical terms, there was always something more that could have been done than has been done so far. But when it comes to the umbrella organisation, which is made up of producers, scientists and advisers themselves, the key to its formation lies with these people themselves, it can only arise on the basis of a voluntary agreement. The Ministry of Agriculture certainly cannot and does not want to form such an organization from the top down, by order. We have tried to bring the parties together at the negotiating table. Over the years, we have met with them several times and offered that if such an organisation were to emerge, we could transfer the coordination of the advisory services to this organisation. Of course, it cannot be said that it will happen. Then we must negotiate the conditions under which we are prepared to do so. In principle, according to the Ministry, the best solution would be for producers' organisations (in particular farmers' associations, the Farmers' Confederation and the Chamber of Commerce), the University of Life Sciences on the scientific side and the advisory services on the advice side to form a common umbrella organisation. So far, such an organisation has not been formed in Estonia. As a compromise option, I think the most appropriate option is the Rural Promotion Foundation, which has been working on it for the last three years. I think he's done it pretty well. As far as dissatisfaction is concerned, as I said, in three years there has been no official appeal either to the Ministry or to me, which would have revealed dissatisfaction with the coordination of the consultative system. The main reason for this year's dissatisfaction was, in particular, the desire of the Rural Promotion Foundation to restructure the funding of dissemination of information. The Rural Promotion Foundation wanted to deal with the information error of the state itself, not through the advisory services. This concerns the financial interests of the advisory services, and I think that is where this dissatisfaction has come from. But like I said, we're not going to reorganize anything this year. The advisory services can be calm, this year the funding will remain the way it has been. But we definitely need to think this through in a complex way for the new period. When financial interests bounce, it does not always mean that the system is bad, but sometimes it means different interests and maybe one or the other option will be better than the current system. That is what we need to find out in our disputes. But I think that the cause of dissatisfaction now is rather different financial interests, not that coordination of advisory services has suddenly become worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U17	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U18	Thank you. Dear Minister, Your answer to the last question was very informative and probably appropriate. I'll keep asking from here. You referred to a problem that arose primarily within this foundation itself, I understood that. You've met this target group. Can you describe the satisfaction of looking at this advice service from the consumer side? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U19	Thank you. The problem is not within the Rural Promotion Foundation. The problem is the extra-fundamental relationship with the foundation. The County Advisory Services have addressed the Ministry as the Rural Promotion Foundation planned to restructure the financing of the public dissemination of information. This has created a problem because the service has previously been provided by the county advisory centres. However, surveys carried out in 2010 and 2012 by the University of Life Sciences and the Institute of Conjuncture show that the service received is very satisfied. I really dare to use the word pair'very pleased'. The problem is that the advisory service is not available to everyone. The cost of the service is also a problem and in certain areas the problem is that the service cannot be obtained. But the extent to which the service is provided is satisfied.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U20	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I was pleased to hear that you are making a very positive assessment of the current advisory system. I'm sure the Ministry will move on with better management of the system. Has there been a question of the regional representation of the advisory service? Will they continue on a regional level? As you said, the availability of the service leaves something to be desired. Perhaps we could make the units even smaller or offer advisory services at four places in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U22	This issue has been discussed several times. We have considered in the ministry what the regional organisation of the advisory system should be. We have not considered dividing Estonia into three, four or five regions. This proposal has not been discussed and I personally do not support it. We have discussed that if the Rural Development Foundation coordinates the provision of advisory services and if it wishes to provide these services itself, would this mean some degree of centralisation of advisory services and what this could entail? As a '16th centre', would this mean competing with the other 15 regional centres, which may not be the same as in a market economy? We have discussed how to find the best solution in a situation where the MES actually has potential that should also be exploited in the consultative system. At the same time, there is certainly a problem with the legal status or organisational basis of the advisory centres themselves. They are currently organised on different bases in the counties. In some cases they are located within the Farmers' Confederation, in some cases within the Farmers' Confederation, in others they are private limited companies, in some cases completely independent advisory centres. In fact, this legal or organisational form has evolved over the history of all counties. There is no doubt that we do not want to disrupt the positive developments that have been brought about by the restructuring, but certain harmonisation in a situation where there are different organisational bases is obviously reasonable. We are also looking for a solution to the question of the organisational form of the county advisory centres themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U23	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U24	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. You said that there are certain areas where there is no advisory service at all, where there is no advice. Are you going to repeat what these areas are where you can't get advice? In my opinion, there were a few areas where the advisory service would be very necessary. What do you do when you don't get advice? What's your plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U25	Thank you. There are several aspects. European legislation obliges farmers to set up an advisory system in each country, but there is no obligation to deal with all areas. We will give advice even in the wider spectrum than the Council regulation provides for. The Council regulation still provides for advice to be given to farmers. As I said in the report, Member States have an obligation to set up an advisory system to advise farmers on agricultural land and farm management issues. The advisory system shall include at least statutory management requirements and standards for maintaining land in good agricultural and environmental condition. This is the minimum that the consultative system must allow in the country. All we offer in addition is a national decision-making process. We have, of course, organised a wider advisory system, and producers can also get more advice. But there are areas that we think are important, but where there is no advice. As I said, there is no consul with an invitation in the area of collective action and food management. These are our children of pain. This shows that there is a need for further development of the system. It has been argued that the system works very well and that it does not need to be restructured. I think it's necessary. Whether restructuring and development are the same, it is already an assessment issue. But I think we still have room for improvement here. What we have done has been doing quite well, but there are a number of areas that we have not reached, and there are probably a whole range of areas where we may not have to consult through the advisory system. For example, there are a large number of importers who bring technology to Estonia, including fertilisers, herbicides, pesticides. They advise the others themselves. On the one hand, it is very good because they are very aware and competent in what goods they bring to Estonia. But they may not always be objective about the impact of their techniques, fertilisers or chemicals on farmers. Here, too, we need to find the best solution so that the manufacturer receives objective advice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U26	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Minister. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you for your answers. At the end of your speech, you stated that the state has an obligation to advise producers in certain areas. This has, of course, been tried to do, but counseling has not actually been done. There has been constant efforts to reform this system. The Minister said that no substantial changes would be made to the consultative system without his knowledge. That's when you have to look at you and ask, "Why is this happening?" It is not true that the sector is satisfied. At meetings with representatives of the sector, especially with smaller producers, there has been a great deal of dissatisfaction. I've heard enough about that. I agree that the ideal system, which everyone would like, cannot be created, but such a move from one place to another is not considered right. Perhaps now it would make sense to continue working with producer organisations, to go to their aid and to prepare a coordinating system. The Rural Promotion Foundation is undoubtedly a very good institution within its areas of activity, but let us be honest, advice is coordinated there at a weak level, if not to say that there is no coordination of advice. I want to hope that the Ministry will be more active in the field of counselling after today's debate. We know that there is an umbrella organisation on the basis of coordinating county centres. I think that if the Minister wants to know everything that is welcome, he could also help the advisory system.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U28	Thank you very much. There is no more negotiation request, I will close the negotiations. The debate on the first inquiry is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U29	Next is an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, of Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu on 14 January 2013. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U30	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, During my nine years as chairman of the Narva City Council, I had three very difficult meetings with people whose close relatives had left home and had gone missing. Talking to them was very difficult psychologically in every sense. Recently, I looked into the archives of the Estonian Päevaleht and came across an article in 2007. Journalists had found out that 300 people had disappeared in Estonia in 2001, and 513 people had disappeared six years later. Thus, 513 families from all over Estonia were waiting for their loved ones and did not find out about them. After that, I looked at the homepage of the Police and Border Guard Board. According to this website, 52 people are being searched, although, given the pace of the increase in the number of missing persons between 2001 and 2007, 700, perhaps even 800, may now be missing. As a result of this concern that we should all share, I have asked the Minister for the Interior a few questions and I hope to have some substantive answers. Because of time savings, I'm not going to read the questions. I hope it's the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U31	Thank you very much. I'm asking for Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U32	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good inquisitor, thank you for your questioning. You have been asking about missing persons in the Republic of Estonia since 1991, you want to know how many people there are, what the current number is, what the reasons are that the case is not being brought, and what the process of searching for missing persons is unknown. As of today, 352 people have disappeared in Estonia. These are those who have been missing more than ten calendar days. The missing persons shall be considered as missing persons by the police authority to be persons whose circumstances indicate that their disappearance has been caused by a crime or accident, as well as persons who have left their place of residence or place of residence who are unable to provide true information about their identity due to their state of health or age, or for other reasons, as well as persons who have left, for example, the institution of treatment. The inquiry asked what number of missing persons had been missing since 1991. This is difficult to say because a significant part of this data has been archived. Only cases where no person has been found shall be kept active. Nor would the removal of such a total number provide an adequate picture in the context of this issue, as the methodologies for entering missing persons into the database have been different since 1991. For example, all losses reported to 110 numbers since 2012 will be entered into the database on a case-by-case basis. This means that some people have been missing 50 times in one year. These people are primarily clients of care establishments. If we're talking all the data in the precinct together, we can talk about 352 missing persons. This means that there is an open administrative file on the disappearance of these persons, which means that they have been missing for more than ten days. The process of searching for an unknown missing person begins with the receipt of a notification or application to the police authority or when the police officer himself has established the fact that the person has disappeared in the course of one of the proceedings. In such cases, intensive identification of the last position of the person shall be initiated. This is done through a range of measures (questioning, data analysis). If it has been established that the person may be lost as a result of a crime or accident, then criminal proceedings will certainly be opened. In such cases, evidence of the offence and the location of the person shall be sought in parallel. Each individual case must be assessed on the basis of the facts available. There are no separate units designed to search for persons, but there are specially trained officers in police units who search for missing persons when they are part of the criminal police. For example, a total of 42 criminal proceedings have been opened since 2003, when there has been reason to conclude that a person has disappeared independently of his own will. Where persons have complaints about police action or also failure to act, a complaint should first be made to the chief police officer or to internal control, who will check whether a particular official has fulfilled his duty with due care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U33	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U34	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Can you comment on the questioner's claim that there are in fact many more missing persons in Estonia than there are in the police records?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U35	Thank you for your question. I can rely on the figures I put out in response to my inquiry. As of today, there are 352 of these people. Prefecture numbers vary. As I said, a total of 42 criminal proceedings have been opened since 2003. One observation concerning criminal proceedings. Criminal proceedings do not necessarily need to be initiated. This will certainly be the case if there are circumstances that need to be investigated and suggesting that a person has been deprived of liberty illegally, force, coercion and violence, or that there may be an accident. In general, missing persons are sought under administrative procedures. This is due in particular to § 3 of the Police and Border Guard Act and is a risk-control activity. A wide range of enquiries, processing of personal data and other administrative procedures to identify the whereabouts of the person shall be carried out. For example, if there is reason to believe that a missing person is being held in the territory of an immovable property, it is possible to enter that territory in the context of an administrative procedure. However, criminal proceedings are generally not initiated, but are carried out in the context of an administrative procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U36	Thank you. Please, Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U37	Good minister! Do families with missing members have access to psychological assistance through your administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U38	Thank you very much for your question. This is largely about the subject of sacrificial assistance. I think that the subject of victim assistance is primarily to curate the Ministry of Social Affairs, but the police have very close cooperation with social services and certainly also with supporters of victim support. So, yes, as far as possible and as many people as they want, this help is provided to people in order to alleviate this difficult situation. It can be said that during the last eight years, the victim support system in Estonia has become considerably better and more European. More money is now being spent on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U39	Thank you. Any more questions for the waitress? No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U40	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, My life has gone so far that, strangely enough, I believe in the Estonian Päevaleht more than the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Estonia. What did I find out today? What can I say to those people who came to me with their trouble? As the Ministry of the Interior, despite its full strength and 6,000 employees, cannot name even an approximate number of people who have disappeared since Estonia regained independence. There is no answer to how many of them have been found, etc. Between 2001 and 2007, an increase in the number of missing persons was clearly seen: from 300 to 513. What happened after 2007? Was our life so good about the crisis and the police started working so well, more people were doing it, that now only 352 are missing? Does this mean that everyone who has disappeared has been found and 161 more of those 513 people have been found? The fifth question of inquiry is most important to me, because I have to report on this: 'This inquiry is based on a citizen's address and so please explain what a relative of an unknown missing person must do if he sees that the police officers of his place of residence are not actually looking for a missing person? " That question was left unanswered. What choice do I have? Print this minister's answer, give people and tell them to watch the statistics, because the statistics are certainly very beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U41	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The debate on this point is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U42	The next item is the question to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, of 15 January 2013 by Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu, about the suspension of the reconstruction of the Narva border crossing point. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U43	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, We have often talked in this Chamber about the problem of the border crossing between Narva and Ivangorod. The queues at the border, the impossibility of organising border crossings normally, especially at the beginning of the summer or at the end of the year, when hundreds of means of transport and thousands of people are in queues, all of this has a serious impact on the Estonian economy as well. Of course, it is very important to get more tourists from Russia. These tourists spend money in Tallinn, regardless of our prices, they are the best customers. Some time ago, there was an opportunity to improve border capacity. There was a promise that European money would be allocated to this and that it would be dealt with. The reconstruction project was scheduled to end in December 2014. However, two and a half years before the end of the project, Riigi Kinnisvara AS announced that they would not be able to ensure the completion of all activities by this deadline and refused to carry out the project. Although we know that if there is an interest, there will be an urgent procedure, if necessary, and everything else. I must remind you that the Russian side was confident that work would be done by December 2014. However, we refused to do so; we refused to reconstruct the grand border crossing point. The situation will remain the same for a long time. There will be no cardinal change in the capacity of the border for the better. As has been said, the situation may remain rather pitiful. That is why I wanted to ask a few questions. The border capacity will not be improved, the work will not be done, the money will be given somewhere else. Here's what to ask the Minister about. Finally, I have to tell you that, with the first impetus, I have received a proposal from the Ministry to present this question to the Minister for Regional Affairs, because it is his responsibility. Colleagues, this is a border, not a regional issue. This is a very important issue of national security and must be dealt with by the Minister of the Interior. I hope that he will answer the four questions he has asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U44	Thank you. I'm asking for Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U45	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Thanks for asking. The heir would like to know about the reconstruction of the Narva border crossing point. He asks what money has been spent preparing for reconstruction and claims that the preparation project will not be realised. They also ask how to be sure that construction, construction projects and expertise can be done in time. As Mr Stalnukhin rightly mentioned, this is not a question for the Minister for the Interior, in essence the Minister for Regional Affairs could answer that question. But on behalf of the Minister for Regional Affairs, I can give you a brief overview of the state of the project, the reconstruction of the Narva border crossing. The regional minister has been preparing a project "Complete reconstruction of border crossings of Narva and Ivangorod' in cooperation with Riigi Kinnisvara AS and several authorities of the Russian Federation since June 2010. Its aim is to reconstruct the Narva and Ivangorod border crossing points in order to synchronise the capacity of pedestrians, buses and passenger cars and to ensure an increase in capacity. This project is the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument (ENPI) Estonia-Latvia-Russia 2007-2013. One of the four large-scale projects of the 2006 cross-border cooperation programme is a priority in Estonia and Russia. It is considered a strategically important investment on the Estonian-Russian border; both parties are interested in its success. For information, on 15 January 2013, the contract partners reached an agreement on the feasibility of implementing the project, which allows for the organisation of procurements on the Estonian and Russian side separately, and also provides the opportunity to continue this project and complete the construction works. There is therefore no reason to comment today on the statement you have made that this project is not recommended to be implemented. As regards what money may be used to finance this project, if the solutions and agreements reached so far with Russian partners do not lead to the conclusion of a grant agreement for the project, the following explanation can be given. The Joint Monitoring Committee of the Estonian-Latvian-Russian cross-border cooperation programme will decide on the use of this money in accordance with the regulations of the European Union and the conditions laid down in the programme. For all projects in the programme, one deadline is set at 31 December 2014. Whether and to what extent it will be completed by this deadline will depend on the capacity of the projects. As regards the preparation costs, EUR 50000, the programme rules put this amount at the expense of drawing up, analysing, translating and project management costs for the road border point Narva 1. After the signature of the grant agreement, these costs shall be covered by the Programme Support Instruments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U46	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U47	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In his oral presentation, Mr Stalnukhin touched on the issue that the security of the Estonian state is at risk. With regard to these repairs, would you give your opinion on this claim?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U48	Thank you for your question. Every assessment that is made in this Chamber is up to the judge. That is what this Parliament environment is for, so that you can make assessments without fear of any follow-up and the resulting responsibility. It was up to Mr Stalnukhin himself. Today, it can be said that this project was carried out in 2010 and is quite actively implemented. The complexity of this project certainly also relates, but, as I said, certain agreements were reached in mid-January that could move forward in order to carry out procurements on the separate Estonian and Russian sides. On behalf of the Minister for Regional Affairs, I can only confirm today that this project is moving forward and hopefully the deadline will also reach a nicely effective conclusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U49	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U50	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pakosta in particular. If you think that the 15-km order of cars on the border, where cars stand one after another from Narva to Laagnan, as we have seen hundreds of times, does not endanger Estonia's security, then you are wrong. But it's not my job to explain the simplest things to you. As for the answers I have now received, I only came here to remind the Minister of something called formal logic. If you say that the patient will surely survive, you have no right to say in the following sentence: 'Or he will still die. " Either you reached an agreement on 15 January, or there is a possibility that this money will be used for a beautiful purpose in the future as part of this project. Fogs, vague answers, information is passed through the Minister of the Interior's mouth, but it's like it's coming from the Minister of Regional Affairs. He's not taking responsibility. I don't think we'd have heard normal answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U51	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The debate on this point is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U52	Fourthly, we will discuss the inquiry to Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, submitted to Riigikogu members Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korb, Vladimir Velman, Peeter Võsa, Kalev Kallo, Priit Toobali, Viktor Vassilyev and Marika Tuus-Laul on 16 January 2013. I'm going to ask for a speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin again!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U53	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, We still have dozens and dozens of Mondays before we start developing this subject with the Minister of the Interior. Take today's inquiry as an introduction to this big issue I've already been here asking questions about the events that have taken place in the Capo. I have reminded you that, when you look at the last annual report, it turns out that almost one in four corruption crimes are committed at the Police and Border Guard Board, etc. This whole process began in 2005, when it suddenly became clear that the then Minister of Justice, Ken-Marti Vaher, had approached his subordinates with the idea of going after corrupt officials by means of a limit. During Stalin's time, a decree was signed, giving a check number, how many people to deport, and how many to shoot. With the exact same method, our current Minister of the Interior came out at the time. Then it overthrows Juhan Parts' government. One way or another, Ken-Marti Vaher had already spoken on several occasions about the fight against corruption. A very interesting article, 'The reduction of state theft creates jobs', which, in my opinion, was such a dualist, he posted his web of time. It showed five main directions in which corruption should be combated. However, we can see that it has not produced any particular result. Eight members of the Riigikogu ask the Minister some quite theoretical questions. We can compare his answers today with the answers he gives next Monday. We have three questions. I do not intend to come here after the debate with a final speech, but if the Minister does not read the questions, then I will only come here to read them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U54	Thank you. I'm asking for Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Thanks for asking. To illustrate: Mikhail Stalnukhin's monologue made a large number of mistakes. It's on your conscience again. But as has already been said, anything can be done in Parliament. Here is the democratic forum. I guess those decision-makers and make-believers are probably outside this hall. As far as 2005 is concerned, your malicious interpretations will soon rise to the very sky. But it's what it is. You asked three questions and referred to my article in 2009. You asked about the implementation of the ideas at the time, as well as about the legislative framework for action against corruption. You also asked how many internal resources of the criminal authorities are devoted to investigating corruption, how many people have worked in the police and whether I am still of the opinion that it is important to channel internal resources to investigating corruption. Of course I am. I've always felt that way. I will be happy to respond on this subject, and I will do so long and hard on the next Monday, if you will give me a chance. As regards the article referred to in the inquiry, which I published on my timeline in 2009, which concerns the prevention of corruption, the only thing that can be said is that, from the so-called special package proposed in it, the government has now implemented a number of measures. Firstly, the extension of the investigative powers of the Defence Police Department. This took place in 2007 and led to a significant change: the six largest municipalities were placed under the investigation of the Defence Police. In these major municipalities, including Narva, which you have been leading for years, where the investigation of corruption did not take place in substance until 2007, a number of cases have now been discovered and brought to light, many of which have also been confirmed by a court seal as official cases of corruption and serious scandals. In addition to Narva, Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu, Kohtla-Järve and Jõhvi were transferred to the defence police. It was, I think, an important step forward. This was also written by the IRL in the agreement of the government coalition. We also wrote to the final agreement of the government coalition on the extension of the competence of Estonia's most capable research institution, the Defence Police. Since 10 October 2011, the Defence Police has also been placed under the supervision of the Board of Directors and the members of the Supervisory Board of a public or state-owned legal person and of a legal person established by the State, where their activities pose a threat to national security. Pulling this border between the Police and Border Guard Board and the Defence Police is important in order to determine exactly what is within the competence of one institution or another. Other officials remain under the investigation of the Office for Corruption Crimes of the Central Criminal Police of the Police and Border Guard Board. Contrary to what you have stated in your inquiry, the Defence Police Department has, in my opinion, done a good job in the fight against corruption. Let us take as an example a number of cases of corruption discovered in Ida-Virumaa and Tallinn. When we talk about the Police and Border Guard Board, in autumn 2011, we formed two separate units in this organisation, which are specifically designed to combat serious crime. The first of these is the Office for Corruption Crimes, which brings together the investigation of corruption crimes. The second is the Crime Income Detection Office, which is also a new structural unit and brings together the management of the detection and confiscation of all substantive proceeds throughout the Republic of Estonia, in all prefectures. The CFI was set up to identify, in particular, the proceeds of serious and hidden crime, including corruption. The purpose of this unit is to become a competence centre and, where necessary, to enable the detection of proceeds from criminal activities also in the case of criminal offences investigated by other investigative bodies. The purpose of the establishment of the Bureau of Corruption Crimes was to establish a central competence centre in the Police and Border Guard Board once again, with the competence of the other 220 municipalities of Estonia for possible violations of law, in particular infringements of the obligation of integrity, which are dealt with in accordance with the Penal Code. While in 2009 only the Department of Corruption Crimes with specialised officials had been established in the Northern Prefecture, the Office of Corruption Crimes now has services in all prefectures. In addition, a procedural service has been set up and an analysis service has been set up as a completely new sub-unit. While 21 officials began working at the time of the establishment of the office, since 1 January 2013, 28 officials are working there at the beginning of this year, i.e. we have increased the composition quite significantly. The aim of 2013 is to recruit three more professionals. The Ministry of the Interior has allocated money for this. By 2013, an additional €1.4 million has been allocated to increase the procedural capacity of the Central Criminal Police, including the handling of corruption crimes. The additional money also applies, of course, to the Defence Police Department, both in 2012 and 2013. I am also thinking here of additional resources aimed at improving the motivation of officials, i.e. simply to raise their salaries. A new anti-corruption law will enter into force on 1 April 2013. Together with the establishment of the Honest State Action Plan, the legislative and strategic framework for anti-corruption activities will be renewed. As we know, the first anti-corruption strategy was adopted in Estonia in 2004. It was presented at the time by the Ministry of Justice, and I myself contributed modestly to it. The Government of the Republic confirmed this strategy in 2004 called the 'Honest State' and it has already received a number of sequels. During the current government coalition, a new anti-corruption strategy will be adopted, i.e. a follow-up of old strategies on a number of issues, including local authorities and private sector corruption. The aim of the strategy is to narrow corruption opportunities, increase intolerance to corruption, find viable solutions to confront precisely hidden state thefts and complex schemes. In general, corruption is considered to be a serious hidden crime, but it also contains its own layers. It is the problem of hidden theft of the state that has been pointed out by experts who believe that the common concepts of bribery and bribery and giving may be too narrow for the legal system. Take, for example, a number of cases from Narva, which have been addressed to the public over the years and which have also been discussed in response to inquiries. Persons involved in the management of the city have been actually punished for corruption crimes. On this basis, it can be said that the current legal area allows this type of crime to be combated successfully. But we must admit that there is clearly room for improvement here. Punitive regulation of one of the sub-categories of corruption, the disposition of power trading, needs to be further defined and aligned with the recommendations of international experts. As we know, last year the Supreme Court also drew attention to the problem of the indeterminateness of the position of influence trading since 2006 in a particular case, where the central dispute took place over the illegal fitting of this disposition feature. Essentially, the Supreme Court's decision means that this regulation needs to be reviewed. Only so much can be said that legislative action in relation to the definition of the position of power trading is seriously on the agenda, which is dealt with by the criminal policy officer, the Ministry of Justice, and is essentially dealt with by the Working Group on Codification of the Penal Code. Finally, as regards the further verification of the funding of political parties, a committee on the supervision of the funding of political parties was set up within the Riigikogu, whose task is to check that not only the parties but also the electoral associations and individual candidates comply with the requirements laid down in the party law. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U56	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U57	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! In the introduction, you said that there were a lot of mistakes in my speech. Please make three mistakes! 'A large number' means much more than three, but bring at least three of the mistakes that were in my speech. Or maybe admit you're an impudent demagogue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U58	I am not going to make such assessments of honourable Members; it is up to everyone again. What you said was going on in 2005 was basically not a shred of truth. You know perfectly well what happened in 2005, particularly in relation to the investigation of corruption. Don't you know? I don't think you remember that. I'll refresh your memory. In 2005, there was also a vote in this Chamber, which was as if motivated by the strengthening of the so-called corruption investigation. In this regard, we had started working with the Ministry of the Interior in 2004. It was a political debate that led to a change of government. It had a very unambiguous and clear political background. No one, no one can claim in 2013 that it was some kind of decree, some kind of quota or something like you mentioned in your speech. It's just not true. That's a lie you're saying. You've said it several times from here. I'm gonna go over this one more time. At the end of 2004, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior started working together to bring the investigation of various serious covert crimes to a new level. As you will remember, in 2004, the Code of Criminal Procedure also gave a leading role to the prosecutor's office in criminal proceedings. For the first time, a unique situation arose in Estonia, which is still valid and has fully justified itself that in criminal proceedings, the leading party is the prosecutor's office, which is subordinate to the Ministry of Justice, and the investigation capability is demonstrated by the police, which is subordinate to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Consequently, it was important to determine the volume of work, i.e. the resources that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior put into the investigation of serious covert crimes. It was given a very unambiguous political connotation, talking about quotas and metrics that were not true at the time and not true afterwards. I can only say that the purpose of this amendment was to bring the investigation of serious hidden crimes to a new level in Estonia. The foundation was established in 2004-2005, in particular by building an independent and independent prosecutor's office and allocating resources to it, as well as by some changes to the police. The real change concerning corruption crimes took place in 2010 at the time of the first establishment of separate structural units focusing on corruption crimes by Minister of the Interior Pomerants. In Estonia, the problem of investigating these crimes in conjunction with economic crimes has been the problem of fighting corruption throughout the ages. But if you compare economic and corruption crimes, you will see that they are two separate types of crime. The investigation of economic crimes, particularly simple economic crimes, is incomparably easier than the detection of serious corruption schemes, which may take months and years in some cases. If there are economic and corruption crimes in one of the structural units of the police service together, the result is that corruption crimes are not paid attention in substance or less. It is therefore essential that prosecutors and investigators focus their work on investigating corruption crimes. This has been done, in particular, in recent years. In response to the inquiry, I introduced the steps that have been taken during my term of office at the Police and Border Guard Board, as well as the Defence Police Department, whose competences have been extended. In my opinion, it is also Estonia's most capable institution to combat serious covert crime. Defence police are investigating corruption crimes involving threats to national security. The contact between corruption and national security, however, is extremely intense. The Defence Police Department is known to be a security authority. In at least eight other European countries, as well as in the United States, there is also a security authority with procedural capacity and competence. This is a common practice in Europe. In particular, the Nordic countries, our good examples from Scandinavia, will take advantage of this opportunity. As a whole, the investigation of corruption and other serious hidden crimes has improved considerably over the past eight years. When I took office as Minister of Justice in 2003, I would not have thought that there was essentially no investigation of corruption in local governments in particular. There was no such capacity, there was no allocation of money, there were no experts or professionals who could handle clear corruption cases occurring in Estonian municipalities at the time. A good example was what took place in Tallinn in 2000-2001. I don't know if you remember the so-called 'downtown waking scandal' when essentially half the old town was awakened to people who were very closely associated with the then city power. It has to be admitted that the police were unable to collect ex post court evidence, as investigation of corruption crimes is often only possible in real time. Of course, it takes a lot of money and working time, and it needs to be focused on the best brains capable of confronting this crime and discovering more complex schemes. Unfortunately, this capacity did not exist in Estonia at the beginning of the 21st century, but I am glad that at least in recent years it has developed in Estonia. It is clear that there is always room for improvement, but that is what we will continue to work on, and that is what I, as Minister of the Interior, have set my priorities for.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U59	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U60	Thank you, good manager. Minister of the Interior! Corruption is a serious issue. You mentioned Tartu among other cities. Last week, a serious investigation was closed. A member of the City Council was accused of having influenced the work of the Commission as a member of the City Council Commission. As I understand it, last week they realized that the accusation was absurd. But that's it. You told me nicely that anything can be said in the Riigikogu Hall, that everyone stays on the speaker's conscience. I'm sure you'd like to take a look at the verbosograms. You can also read the horrible things that sounded in your own mouth. I don't think you really mean that. But I'll give you an example as a question. You mentioned several cities and said they were transferred to the defense police. Is that really what you're thinking, or was it a mistake to correct in the verbatim?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U61	Thank you, Mr Black, for this question. I have no doubt that there are different sentiments in the verbatim charts. We are talking here with relatively free text, especially when answering questions, and from time to time we form rather complex sentences. When I mentioned that some municipalities would be transferred to the defence police, it was my idea that the defence police would be brought under the jurisdiction of the police to investigate corruption in the event of possible abuses by their authorities. I thank you for bringing this to your attention. As far as evaluations are concerned, there will be a democratic forum in Parliament where we will argue with each other and explain our views, and we often do not come to a common understanding. I think it's kind of inevitable. There are different interest groups in society, different parties with their own perceptions and weather views. The starting points from which people come to this hall to defend their positions may be completely different, as we have heard today. That's how you take it. I think the most important thing is to look at what the current government, or any government, is doing constructively. We can always stick to one letter, be the so-called star-mongers, turn even the most positive things into negative, and thank them for it. But I don't think anyone's ever gonna win. My aim here is not to explain my answer to Mr Stalnukhin's questions at length and widely. But thank you for the opportunity to explain what we are doing! I very much hope that the opposition will also look constructively at the steps taken. I have always been inspired by the optimistic view that glass is half full, not half empty.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U62	Thank you. Please, Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U63	Thank you. Honourable waitress! What happened in Narva has indeed shocked the entire Estonian people. Can you identify any other government that has discovered serious corruption crimes? To be honest, your answer was a little blurry, so what is the situation in the Estonian country with corruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U64	Thank you for your question. There are many municipalities. As I said, the defense police's research capacity has evolved over the years. In my opinion, the Defence Police is currently the strongest research institution in Estonia, capable of responding primarily to these crimes, which involve a clear threat to the security of the state. You can certainly mention Tallinn here, where in recent years, in particular, a number of things have been initiated. But when it comes to the general corruption problem in Estonia, the answer is once again multifaceted. There are a number of international indices for assessing the perception of corruption. One of the best known is the Transparency International index, according to which Estonia has a relatively good position compared to other Eastern and Central European countries. Together with Slovenia, we are always at the forefront of Eastern and Central European countries, in the sense that we have the least sense of corruption. Compared to our southern neighbours, the difference is very noticeable (by lunches I mean the other Baltic countries), which, however, affects our good examples of the Nordic countries, they are quite down. This shows that there is much room for improvement. Denmark, Finland and Scandinavia are still the top ten. A country like New Zealand is also mentioned here. In the dot calculation, Estonia will placebo 32nd place by 64 points in 174 countries. Denmark, Finland and New Zealand are allegedly the world's most transparent countries with the lowest sense of corruption by 90 points. This means that we have room for improvement, but the place among other countries with similar starting positions is not bad. When it comes to how society perceives corruption, it may be recalled that a few years ago, serious suspicions were submitted to three Estonian judges and criminal proceedings were initiated within one year. This may have raised a public question of what has happened now, when the honourable judges, who are representatives of the most important institution and are judging all of us, are suspected of corrupting activities. Is there really something wrong, or does it show the increasing capacity of our country to detect, for example, those who are not the most transparent of their activities among judges? I dare say that this was another option, which is that the state's capacity has improved. I think that these cases should rather be highlighted, showing that we are able to clean our public sector, the national administration ourselves. If no such cases have been detected in any other Eastern or Central European country, this may mean that the capacity to investigate corruption is simply so weak that the judiciary will never be reached. I think that such a country is certainly much worse off than Estonia, where it has been possible to bring these cases out among the judiciary, in the defence police itself (e.g. the case at the beginning of last year) and also in the Police and Border Guard Board, to which reference has been made here. Let us recall, even years ago, the case of the traffic police or the procedural procedures that were carried out last year in relation to the head of internal control, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U65	Thank you very much. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. On the second question of this inquiry, this sentence is set out: 'Professor of Criminology Jüri Saar also considers it important to pay more attention to the phenomenon of 'the hostageing of the state', or systematic political corruption, which manifests itself as a selfish activity of networks in the shadow of national institutions. ' I have raised a topic in this hall, and I have been talking about taking a waiting period at the border crossing point of Koidula and Luhamaa. How has this happened? Isn't this some kind of hidden corrupt scheme when passengers are charged a waiting period without passengers using this service? How do you explain that? The Chancellor of Justice has said that this situation is completely unacceptable. Yet people pay the price. They don't even know what they're paying, yet that's the reward they're paying. As your minister, you have signed this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U67	Thank you for your question. We've been discussing the pending fee here in the form of an inquiry. There are different approaches. I understand you have an approach. However, the approach taken by the Ministry of the Interior is that it is a one-stop shop provided. We have created waiting areas and an electronic reservation system. We enjoy the situation in the Republic of Estonia, where there are basically lost queues on the border between Estonia and Russia in physical terms, which is extremely positive. However, queues have moved into an electronic environment, which means that you can book your queue. As I have said here, there will be no charge if there is no queue at all, if it is neither physically nor electronically. There have been cases like this in Estonia, for example, at the turn of the year there has been a barrier. Those who have crossed the borders between Estonia and Russia have then done so without paying any fees, and the law on the state border has been implemented. I dare say this argument is going on, there are different opinions, and we have to move on from here. If the dissatisfaction is caused by the fact that the Estonian state has lost years of serious suffering at the border crossing points and has done so very successfully, then we can continue to argue whether we want the situation back or whether another solution is possible. In any case, the current solution is that the waiting area service is a complete service which is charged to those who cross the border. Other taxpayers will not receive this burden, but will be borne by those who use the particular service, that is, crossing the borders of Estonia and Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U68	Thank you very much. Please, Ülo Tulik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U69	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good minister! By listening to your answers, I dare say that serious steps have been taken in a positive direction to combat corruption. But what do you think has been the most fundamental and important decision you have made in your department in the last two years to reduce corruption in the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U70	Thank you for this question. Corruption, unfortunately, is a phenomenon that is not enough to be eliminated by one or two steps, but very different lines of action must be in place at all times. We have been saying that corruption is clearly one of the most hidden forms of serious crime. I am thinking precisely of the more complex schemes that have emerged over the years in the central administration and local governments of the country. In order to reduce this complex phenomenon in society, a number of steps are needed. I think that the starting point is the first Estonian anti-corruption strategy, adopted in 2004 by the Juhan Parts government, 'Honest State', which set out the framework and set out more than 20 actions in order to reduce corruption in different institutions and levels, whether in municipalities or in state institutions. Within this framework, all of the following governments have largely built on and implemented these activities. The investigative capacity of the prosecutor's office and the police has been strengthened, separate units have been set up, the procedural capacity of the defence police has been increased and preventive action has been taken, which has led to an increased awareness of people and society. For example, a website on corruption was already opened in 2005. It still provides information to people under the administration of the Ministry of Justice so that they can even understand which phenomena are covered by corruption. Since 2004, various target groups have also been regularly consulted on their exposure to corruption. Once again, if you look at different sectors, there is one topic that is dealt with in the Republic of Estonia, I think, quite hidden, the corruption that appears in the private sector and related to it. The latest anti-corruption strategy concerns corruption in the medical field, which many people have been exposed to in one way or another. This certainly also concerns retail trade and a number of other areas. It can be said that there have also been no simple solutions in other developed European countries. Estonia's advantage as a small and innovative country is that we have taken a number of technological solutions to make dealing with the country as simple as possible. The more vague, the more confusing, the more bureaucracy the citizen's dealings with the state are, the more corruption-oriented this whole environment will inevitably be. I think that here again Estonia can be highlighted as a small country. I dare say that, compared to many other European countries, we have made good progress in dealing with citizens' affairs with national authorities. Progress has been made here. In particular, this concerns, for example, the procurement of a number of permits and licences, which have been made more transparent by different authorities over the years. All these preventive steps will reduce the risk of corruption, make the country more transparent and prevent corruption cases in the future as a whole. Finally, one more small remark. Generally speaking, this is white-collar crime. White-collar crime means that these people value the risk of getting caught by committing an offence significantly more than maybe those involved in non-white-collar crime. This means that if they are convinced that the country is strong and that the national authorities have made the risk of being caught large enough, it can, in many ways, prevent thoughts of corruption and make society more transparent again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U71	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U72	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! For years, as we know, the Defence Police have been in charge of investigating the largest corruption cases involving local authorities. In the meantime, the defence police have come up with a very important segment of state-owned companies. That's my question. Is this feature of the investigation of corruption related to the largest local authorities rather temporary, or do you see it as a long-term task for the kapo? Or should it still at some point release this function so that it can literally investigate cases of corruption related to national security? In the police department, this structure is already in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U73	Thank you for a good question. I think that today is hardly the time to talk about restricting the powers of the Defence Police. On the contrary, we still have a few cases in which I dare say that we are more likely to come up with an extension of the powers of the defence police. These six municipalities are the largest municipalities in Estonia, especially in terms of budget volume. Some experts assess when there is a threat to national security, more narrowly, perhaps more widely. I believe that these six municipalities are appropriately qualified by the Defence Police. We're building anti-corruption capabilities in parallel with the Police and Border Guard Board. I daresay, by looking at the history of Estonia after its release, that it will take a while. We are rather moving towards extending the powers of the Defence Police, in particular by specifying precisely which institutions we need even more attention from the Defence Police. This is in addition to the decision at the end of last year, which gave the Defence Police competence to state-owned companies, state-owned companies and public bodies. But there are, I think, a few more missing from these facilities. Above all, I am thinking of profit cooperatives and perhaps some other institutions. But we will come up with this proposal when the analysis is complete. This also requires additional money in the area of the Ministry of Justice's administration, in particular from the prosecutor's office. Competence needs to be clarified and light beams increasingly directed towards areas that have so far received less attention. So my brief answer is, no, we'd rather move towards extending the powers of the Defence Police. This does not mean that we are somehow diluting this assumption that the competence of the defence police must be a threat to national security.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U74	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U75	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The previous issues concerned corruption and border crossings. I can assure you that you've already told me twice or three times in this Chamber that you don't need to pay the fee. Ten days ago, I went to Pihkva, there weren't any cars in line this morning, but we had to stop by the cash register. You're saying the main job is to book a place. But why is there such a big difference between prices at the Narva/Koidula border crossing point?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U76	Thank you for your question. These are different agreements, as well as an assessment of the capacity of the contractual partners to manage this system. I repeat my point, with the creation of the booking information system, the Estonian state chose to ensure that the burden is not borne by taxpayers on a wider scale, but by those who use the service. That's what we're after. This was primarily due to economic inevitability. The financial situation in Estonia was particularly difficult at the time. The Ministry of the Interior solved this issue by setting up a reservation information system with partners from the private sector. But it is clear that everything costs to create and maintain the system. If we stop running this information system, it is clear that the situation will be restored. At least in my opinion, the former situation was such that I wouldn't want it back, and somehow I don't think you want it either.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U77	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U78	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! You know, my opinion is that Estonia needs strong and sustainable police. A well-paid and socially insured police officer is needed for Estonia. Estonia needs strong defence police. All directions must be covered, we must be protected, our country must be protected. But one thing our country does not need is a Minister of the Interior, as is the current Minister. When he started his speech, he announced that there were a lot of mistakes in my introductory speech. I asked him to name, if not a lot of mistakes, at least three mistakes in my speech, or to admit that he's just a demagog. And what did we hear? For a long time, I don't know what to compare it with, i.e. running water and empty, absolutely empty speech. The ability to speak for ten minutes does not yet indicate the level of intelligence or development of a person. This is demonstrated by the ability to answer specific questions. But that's what we're gonna talk about. I came here to talk to my colleague Pakosta, who has unfortunately gone out of the hall. As he stated in his question, he is amazed or shocked by Narva's events. Interestingly, I have never heard from this lady that she would have been amazed at the sale of residence permits if, for money, the official residence documents of the Estonian state were given to criminals and villains, as Koit Pikaro once called them, and it was done so boldly that it was immediately understood that they had a roof, they are not threatened by anything in this country. Listening to the Minister, I can see where they've taken that opinion. There is really no danger to them. The minister's gonna be talking some bullshit about Narva every time. Mr. Minister, every year a police yearbook appears. It has been published in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. Open it, please! There is a chapter entitled 'White Kraker Action', which talks about corruption and shows how many corruption cases there have been in Estonia during the year. For the last three years, this figure has fluctuated from 196 to 237. It shows in which municipality how many such crimes have been committed. For your information: 5.5% of the Estonian population lives in Narva, but the maximum number of corruption crimes that have been there in one year is 6 or less. You, on the other hand, dare to denigrate the entire city, based only on your political priorities! You're just a political speculator! That is what I wanted to suggest to Mrs Pakosta: Unlock the police yearbook and get acquainted with the white-collar activities. However, I would like to tell you what the Minister is specifically talking about. Plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U79	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U80	Today, I had to go to trial, I don't know whether this trial was held or not, the former deputy mayor of Narva, Andrei Filippov. He was arrested in his office, cuffed, and taken to his cell. He sat for 11 days without knowing what he was charged with. Then the men came and said, "Write the statement that you are leaving the deputy mayor's office, and the next day you may be free. But if you don't, you'll be sitting for six months. " He knew this would happen. He wrote a statement and resigned. The whole town waited six months for which he was accused, why he was made a criminal. I've already told you the next story. The man was repairing an apartment of 26 square meters, and he did so officially through the company. The company officially bought construction materials from Ehituse ABC and became like an order and court, like any of us with an Ehituse ABC membership card, with a 7% discount. This amount was about EUR 470. Now he's being accused of corruption. I've talked about it many times. We live in a country that has become a police state because of such a country as Vaher. If you're Russian, middle party and live in Narva, that's the crime scene. That's enough to put you in jail. Kind of like the Vaher it pleases. It doesn't satisfy me. I said at first that we needed strong, but honest, socially secure and highly paid professional police. We need exactly the same defense police. We do not need a court that is not independent. You know it wasn't me who said it, but Märt Rask, the President of the Supreme Court. We don't need a prosecutor's office who runs into the first whistle to do what he's told to do. And there is no need for police officers who follow any political order coming from above. Colleagues, as I said at the beginning of this evening: we will talk about this next Monday, next Monday, etc. Either we suppress the politically-sold system that is put on our heads, or they destroy the Estonian state. The Estonian state has become the place where every third person wants to run. Do you think it's only for material reasons? No. I went to Albania when there was a war, but I haven't seen more happy people anywhere than there, even though they were all beggars. It's something else: depression and what's being pushed on all the time. One of the most important persons in this process is, unfortunately, our Minister of the Interior. Thank you for listening!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U81	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U82	Ladies and gentlemen, Mikhail had a very emotional speech, and my heart is shaking, and I get scared. I have to admit, you're right in a lot of ways, and I agree with you, but I'm trying to keep it calm. I will continue on this subject, which I have talked about repeatedly in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. In particular, I am talking about the situation in border regions where the state has imposed a charge that a person has to pay, even though he does not use the service. When my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin said that this inquiry is an introduction for the next few months, and his theme is 'Corruption in Estonia', I propose 'The People Are Speaking'. The people really speak in South-East Estonia that the Minister of the Interior has made such an agreement with Paldiski Harbours AS that all people who come to the border zone are forced to pay a waiting fee. I would very much like the Minister for the Interior to listen attentively, because there were also errors in his answers. I'm trying to figure out what the situation in the border zone looks like right now. Let's imagine that a person comes into the border zone and the queue is zero, i.e. no passenger cars are in line in the waiting area, the road is free. If the vehicle has arrived at the border and the road is free, it should not be booked in the queue because it is not possible to line up if there is no queue. This is completely absurd! If the road is free, the car can travel to the border and cross the border without having to book a place. The second situation is when the car enters the border zone and is routed from the country road to the waiting area with road signs. The Minister of the Interior has signed a contract with Paldiski Harbours AS for Koidula border crossing. The decision to amend the administrative contract of the Ministry of Interior and Paldiski Harbours AS, signed digitally by the Minister of the Interior, has been published in the State's Official Journal. The other party to the contract is Aleksandr Kovalev from Paldiski Harbours AS. The amendment of the contract created a situation where all these charges increased. If first EUR 4 50 cents had to be paid at the Koidula border crossing point and EUR 1 10 cents had to be paid for the use of the waiting area for border crossings, then from 8 October all these charges have increased and, together with VAT, for example, EUR 5 per category B car, plus a fee for booking the place. The situation is also completely unacceptable when a vehicle enters the border zone and has already been paid for the border order fee. The vehicle shall not be released from the waiting area until a deferred fee has been paid, although no service is used. The vehicle has simply entered the waiting area because the road signs are not allowed to travel to the border. The vehicle is charged EUR 5 but also includes a reservation fee. So on one border crossing of the same vehicle, the reservation fee is paid twice, only to different companies. When booking at home via the Internet, the reservation fee is paid to GoSwift, then in the waiting area it is paid to Paldiski Sadamate AS. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U83	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U84	We have a huge request for the Minister of the Interior to come to the Koidula border crossing. Then we would explain to him how this thing works now, which contracts are in force, and that in fact people should not be charged if they have not used the service. The Chancellor of Justice has also done an analysis and has clearly stated that charging should not be organised in this way. The Minister of the Interior was proud to have discovered a number of corrupt acts. He said it would be difficult to detect serious corruption patterns. In 'The People Are Speaking', it can be said that people have discovered a very complex system of how the Minister of the Interior literally offers a roof and a solid income to a company. At the same time, we know that not all passengers who pass the waiting area use this service, but they are forced to pay for it on the basis of a contract concluded by the Minister of the Interior. That's it for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U85	Thank you very much. Does the Minister have a wish to object? Please, Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U86	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I certainly am not going to argue emotionally with Comrade Stalnukhin, but I can say one very simple thing: God save us for Mr Stalnukhin to prevail! Unfortunately, considering the speech he has made here today, it must be said that the rule of law in the Republic of Estonia would be the end. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U87	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation, I will close the negotiations. The debate on this question has also come to an end.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U88	The fifth item on the agenda is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Valeri Korbi, Aivar Riisalu, Tarmo Tamme and Vladimir Velman, to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, on 17 January 2013. I'm asking for a speech chair for Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U89	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The factual basis for this inquiry is that the number of drug deaths increased sharply compared to the same period last year in nine months. While there were 83 of them in nine months 2011, there were 123 of them last year. According to a report published in November 2011, the number of drug deaths in Estonia per million inhabitants in Europe is at the top. In addition, the report indicates that Estonia is also at the forefront of injecting drug users in Europe. It also says that only 5% of drug users undergo substitution therapy. The number of patients who undergo this treatment is referred to as 1000. So since Mr Ken-Marti Vaher has been Minister of the Interior, there have been very dark and tragic changes in this area. Together with my colleagues, I want to know if he understands how this work can be done and what can be done to improve the situation. I'm sure in the next 10 or 20 minutes, all we can hear is water, water and water, pure demagoguery, but we can't hear specific answers. But the lack of an answer is also the answer. It shows the professional level of one man or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U90	Ken-Marti Vaheri, the esteemed Minister of Home Affairs of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U91	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Comrade Stalnukhin, I will take your words for me only as a compliment. Thank you very much. As regards the increase in drug deaths, this is a very serious issue. I would like to thank the questioners for raising this issue. I'd be happy to answer you. I will start by assessing how serious this is for the Estonian state and the people. I think this is a very serious problem for the Estonian state. In 2012, according to preliminary data, 160 people died as a result of drugs. More people die as a result of drug use than in traffic, fire or water accidents. The problem with drug addiction is the emergence of addiction and the resulting loss of quality of life. This dependence is also a very good ground for the spread of organised drug trafficking. Therefore, reducing drug crime and contributing to reducing drug deaths are one of our clear priorities. I hope Comrade Stalnukhin will also listen and do not talk to Mr Korb, because this is a very important nuance which I am stressing now and which, I hope, you will take into account in the future. The police may do everything they can to limit the spread of drugs that they depend on, but unfortunately, it will not be helpful if addicts are not treated or dealt with in drug prevention. However, these two activities require effective cooperation between several institutions. Drug addiction is such a problem in society, a phenomenon in which different authorities are very close to each other. If we're talking about ministries alone, we're dealing with five ministries here. In particular, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance, through the Tax and Customs Board, are exposed to the reduction in the supply of drugs to a stronger side. The Ministry of Social Affairs, as well as the Ministry of Education and Research, has contact with the softer side, i.e. the treatment of addicts and drug prevention, and the Ministry of Justice is exposed to crime prevention as a whole. It is precisely in order to better manage and coordinate this cooperation that, in the spring of 2012, we set up a high political level, a government committee on drug prevention. This is a new step in addressing this problem in order to strategically manage and coordinate both prevention activities and those aimed at reducing drug supply. It is important that, in addition to the permanent members of the Government Commission, representatives of various NGOs, representatives of state and local authorities and experts are involved in the work of the Commission in order to bring together a large number of parties as a stronger force, to ensure monitoring of common policies and activities, as well as better use of resources and to ensure that the fight against drugs is kept under constant observation. You are asking how the policy of sanctions against addicts should be changed in order to reduce the number of injecting drug users and drug deaths. I do not think we need to change the penal policy. If you are asking for a penal policy, criminal practice against established drug addicts, or addicts, without going into demagogy, then it must be said that punishment is not the solution here. The penalty may be targeted at primary consumers. If we look at the previous criminogenicity of 122 people killed in the course of nine months in 2012, we can see that 61% of them had been caught by the police since 2001 with drug abuse, 52% of them had been repeatedly caught and 31% of repeat offenders had been caught more than ten times. From this statistics, we can conclude that, unfortunately, without effective treatment for addiction, these people cannot be rehabilitated, and we will not only reduce the number of drug deaths by changing our criminal policy. I repeat, not to give you the opportunity to set up demagogical spider nets, that my comment also concerns drug addicts. Rather, we need to think about how alternatives to sanctions can be applied to motivate drugs to be treated. Prevention is also an important keyword. I will give an example of prevention in 2013. The Police and Border Guard Board, together with the Rescue Board, will participate in the "Protect yourself and help you" project for schoolchildren. This is the so-called KEAT project, which teaches lessons in Estonian schools, in addition to other activities, which focus specifically on drug prevention. This project will reach all sixth grade students in Estonian schools according to the plan. The drug prevention component focuses on drug awareness and the ability to resist and not say social pressure. A very important drug prevention project will be launched in March 2013, i.e. in a few weeks' time, where the Ministry of the Interior has taken the initiative. Although, as I said, our exposure to this issue is more linked to reducing drug supply, but since our ministry is feeling and our authorities are feeling this pain, that is, we know the consequences, seeing drug addicts commit new offences, etc., we have also taken a much more active role in prevention than in previous years. In March of this year, in essence, we will start a cooperation project with one of Tallinn's parish governments in the run-up to the Northern Prefecture in a few weeks' time to find suitable social services for minors who have been exposed to drugs. Its aim is to provide social services to minors who have been caught, for example, by drug use rather than only being punished. The aim is to wean them out of potential drug dependence or also from the habit of using drugs by providing counselling and various social services. More active steps must be taken towards both parents and children to keep these households out of drug addiction. You are also asking whether more should be invested in drug-addicted rehab. The answer is yes. I'm sure there's more to bet. An established addict is a sick person. We definitely need to think more and more about how to treat drug addicts. According to the experts, we have about ten thousand drug addicts. I dare say that it is not evidence-based assessments, but certain peer reviews say that the number of drug addicts has decreased. As a positive trend, the average age of drug addicts is rising. The situation of rehab is certainly not satisfactory at the moment. At the same time, what can we do for the generations that come upon us? Effective preventive measures have been taken to prevent the emergence of potential drug addicts in the future, perhaps we can do a great deal to prevent a new generation of drug addicts from growing up. This is largely addressed by the new programme for reducing drug dependence for the period 2013‐2016, which has been coordinated by the same government committee on drug prevention. The Ministry of the Interior has voluntarily taken on a certain lucky, coordinating role there. In addition to ensuring addiction treatment and rehabilitation, prevention is essential in this programme. For example, there are very comprehensive awareness-raising programmes and steps aimed specifically at minors, but also at parents, which I believe is even more important. You are also asking about changes in the composition of the police, as well as what the Ministry of the Interior intends to do to reduce the number of injecting drug users to reduce the number of drug deaths. As I said, one of the priorities of the Ministry of the Interior is, above all, to reduce drug crime, but also to help reduce drug deaths. With regard to last year's number of drug deaths, there is never too much to talk about statistics that apply to these 160 people. 80% of drug deaths occurred due to an overdose of fentanyl in those subjects, most of whom were long - term drug addicts. As a result, the activities of the Ministry of the Interior's area of administration were primarily aimed at reducing supply of drugs, both last year and this year, at reducing the distribution of the strongest drug, a synthetic opiate called fentanyl, and other opium derivatives. In this way, we can also reduce drug deaths. We already allocated additional resources in 2012 to improve the fight against drug addiction, which will also be done in 2013. We are increasing the number of drug units by nearly 10% and increasing the resources available to obtain technical resources. In addition, the pay rise, very clearly more motivation, will also be given to the police officers of the drug units, the detectives. The money will be close to EUR 180000. The aim is to clearly direct the spike to serious drug crime and organised groups. The direction is to break down criminal networks that mediate this synthetic opiate called fentanyl and an even stronger opiate called trimethylfentanyl to Estonia. The police have also changed their tactics in the fight against drugs, and more attention is paid to catching street dealers. An important objective of their capture is precisely to reduce the availability of drugs among minors. Several special operations were launched last year, resulting in the detection of 51 suspected street dealers. In total, in 2012 the police sent around 580 suspected drug-related crime suspects to the prosecutor's office, with nearly 30 more people than in 2011. No such specific operations were carried out in 2011. The results for 2012 show that these operations are necessary, will continue this year and will be carried out in both the Prefecture of the North and the Prefecture of the East. The regions of these two precincts are the most complex in terms of the spread of drugs. Finally, there will be even more cooperation between the criminal police and the law enforcement police. The law enforcement police are systematically patrolling drug-related gatherings and transmitting information to the criminal police. Law enforcement police are being trained to identify and block possible drug groups and street dealers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U92	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's start asking questions. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U93	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In your introduction, you addressed me with the expression'supplier Stalnukhin'. This is, of course, very humiliating. I don't want to be your comrade. In order not to make a tragedy out of it, let's keep playing this game. I want to ask you what I should call you, either Comrade Vaher or Genosse Vaher. What do you prefer? Every time you call me comrade, I start calling you that way. Choose what you like better!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U94	Thank you for your question. You've got it all wrong. My goal is certainly never to humiliate anyone. This is completely incorrect information. If you took it that way, I'm sure I'm sorry. There is no way that my speeches will ever be personal. If anyone does this to me, it's his own free choice again. I said that I would take everything you have said as a compliment, and I will do so in the words of all the other Members. At the end of my previous speech, I mentioned that by listening to how you explain your principles and weather vision, I feel a little concerned about the Estonian state in that sense that if these principles somehow become prevalent with the Estonian state power, then I feel that the foundations of the rule of law are badly affected. But I hope that doesn't happen. For God's sake, don't take my word for it any less humiliating! There's no way I want to humiliate anyone. I will certainly criticise and accept the right to criticise these principles and the weather view that one person or another represents. I hope that you will allow this to happen to me so that I either respond to your criticism or I give my opinion on your assessments, but it is always very clearly impersonal and it is precisely those positions that you represent. I apologize again if the word I used once, if I remember correctly, touched you somehow!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U95	Please, colleague Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U96	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Let me ask you something about this subject for a change. You mentioned in your report that drug addiction is a disease. Some of the statements made by colleagues give the impression that the treatment of this disease should be dealt with by the police. How is it actually organised, and how do you assess the cooperation between authorities in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U97	Thank you for your question. As I said in my reply, drug addiction is one of the problems of society, which is plagued by very many countries in the world. In particular, they are struggling to address this phenomenon, to find effective solutions and, above all, to implement them, because it is a very multifaceted and multi-layered issue. As I said, it is divided into treatment of addicts, rehabilitation, i.e. dealing with the demand side, reducing supply, i.e. dealing with the whole issue of the police and the prosecutor's office, and definitely preventing dependence and also reducing losses, which is once again a completely separate line of action. The combined impact of all these lines of action can be translated into results that can be measured, for example, by the number of drug deaths and also on the basis of ESPAD studies, which highlight the exposure of minors to drugs. It can be said that drug exposure has remained the same over the last five years. There has been no progress in the positive sense, nor has there been a fall back in the negative sense, nor has it been the same. This means that it is precisely in relation to minors that our task is very difficult. The first part of your question concerned the treatment of addicts. Unfortunately, the police cannot deal with the treatment of addicts. It has its own systems, belongs to the Ministry of Social Affairs and is run by the authorities there. One thing is clear: the treatment and rehabilitation of addicts is several times more expensive than the prevention of addiction, i.e. those efforts aimed at current minors and parents, to shape their attitudes and to raise awareness. It is incomparably cheaper than dealing with those who have developed addiction to cure their addiction, to rehabilitate them, to bring them back to society. It must be said that this task was also very difficult for a young country, financially, years ago. Even now rehabilitation of addicts is extremely expensive. Money will be found for this, but it is clear that it is not enough. As far as prevention is concerned, I can say that one pleasant and positive news from last year is that the Norwegian aid programme is channelling almost six million euros into Estonia. The aim is precisely to work with minors and their parents, to develop specific social services and to offer them to minors who have been exposed to drugs. The main aim of this money is to partially reduce the damage that has already occurred, but to reduce this damage in a forward-looking and forward-looking manner. But the most difficult task for society is to deal with the 10,000 people who are already addicted to drugs. Last year, the majority of the dead due to overdose were dependents, with an average age of 31 years. The average age has risen as a positive trend, which means that younger people are getting less on, but it is far from losing those who, unfortunately, depend on the syringe.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U98	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U99	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I am pleased that our disputes over the past two years have borne fruit: you yourself said today from the remote that the number of drug deaths still depends on street sales. But that's it. As we can see, the police, the police organisation and the director-general also play a very important role in the fight against drug crime, which determines the tactics for years and is responsible for this. I've received information that you've cancelled the results of the Police and Border Guard Board Director-General's competition. It's been two weeks since Raivo Küüs left. Is this information true? If so, why did you do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U100	Thank you for your question. An evaluation committee has been set up for this competition and for candidates at all, involving several parties, including the Secretary of State, the State Attorney General, the Chancellor of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Deputy Chancellor and the Head of Staff. As far as the competition itself is concerned, the evaluation committee decided. To me, this committee has not submitted any candidates. A similar model was implemented to find the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board in 2010, when candidates were examined by an analogous committee and possible candidates were screened. The Commission is moving forward with a targeted search. I hope that a person with fresh eyes and good leadership and experience will be found and his candidacy will be presented to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U101	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U102	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. My colleague Liisa-Ly Pakosta has already asked part of my question, but I do have another question for you. You're working very well with the Ministry of Social Affairs. There has been feedback from both the Ministry of Social Affairs and several institutions, such as the Viljandi Hospital Foundation, where a department for treatment of addicts was opened. But do you have any information that, in order to deal with addicts, there is a real shortage of treatment places or more funds? If addicts are not dealt with, then there is no point in rehabilitating. Is that a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U103	Thank you for your question. That's definitely a problem. The financial side and the number of treatment places can be added to what was also mentioned at the last meeting of the Council on Drugs Prevention, that there is a shortage of professionals capable of providing modern rehabilitation and treatment for addicts. Training such individuals again requires money. There's a deficit here, too. Indeed, our cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs is, in my opinion, getting better and better. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in addition to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education and Research, also cooperate very actively through the Government Committee. I hope that this cooperation will result in more and more concrete steps to reduce this very serious phenomenon in Estonian society. This phenomenon of drug addiction as such, drug addiction, as I said, dates back years. That's actually a problem for the last 15 years. The consequences that we see or feel in the number of drug deaths, for example, have certainly not arisen overnight. As I said, most drug deaths have been reported by long-term addicts. Long-term addicts have died primarily due to fentanyl overdose. Why has this happened? The reason is that this drug is a hundred times stronger than heroin and is a very small step from a highly ecstatic state to death. Overdose is very easy to come, especially if the percentages cannot be accurately estimated when the fentanyl mixture is prepared. It is also likely that damaged batches have reached the markets and that people have overestimated their abilities and experience to date. The result is this tragic figure, which last year was 160. I might add that we have discussed the introduction of naloxone in Estonia on several occasions in the Committee on Government of Drugs Prevention. I think it could be a pretty good tool to reduce drug deaths in Estonia. It is used in several European countries. This naturally requires a very good training of the drug addict himself and his loved ones to know at what point naloxone can be taken, etc. The pilot project will take place in Estonia in the first half of this year. I think that a naloxone in Estonia could be quite good at preventing drug deaths, because it works when an overdose of opiate has been received. The situation in Estonia is that, in more than 80% of cases, this is an overdose of synthetic opiate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U104	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U105	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. For ten years we have been dealing with drug addiction problems in Kohtla-Järve. I'm gonna take part in this job, and I'm gonna invite you guys over for another couple of hours to tell us what's going on on the spot. I'll tell you right now, I don't think there's any simple, quick solutions here. We should talk about this in two parts. First, we need to predict what will happen with the use of drugs. Secondly, when it comes to statistics, we can say that chemical preparations are being successfully used in many European Union countries to prevent overdose-related deaths. We don't have that system right now. Why aren't we using these preparations?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U106	Thank you for your question. I think your question may have been answered by the answer to the preceding question. The introduction of this same naloxone means the creation of this system in Estonia. The pilot project will take place during the first half of this year. Yes, the introduction of this preparation has successfully reduced drug mortality in several European countries. It's being tested and analyzed by the Ministry of Social Affairs. I think it is time to go this way in Estonia too.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U107	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U108	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Drug addiction is a serious issue. Unfortunately, children are increasingly involved. How has it become possible that 6 out of 15 rural governments do not have child welfare specialists at work?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U109	Thank you for your question. I have not studied this subject from the bottom of the competition for rural governments. I don't have the statistics. If you say so, you should look at the reason why there are no child protection workers, and then we must definitely draw conclusions from this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U110	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Indeed, it is not only tragic, but it is increasingly about all of us. So I'm going to ask you, as minister, a little bit more. You're doing all kinds of analysis and research, getting data from scientists and medical examiners. To what extent does the spread of drug addiction affect a normal young person who is not directly involved in drug addiction through a group of friends? What is the risk of becoming a non-conventional addict now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U112	Thank you for your question. I referred to one question in response to ESPAD's study, which is, I think, the most comprehensive study in this area. A final study was carried out in 2011. A survey was carried out on the exposure of minors to drugs. Among those aged 15 to 16, this figure was close to 30%. Clearly, we have to do a lot to reduce this percentage. Young people, of course, are different, there are those who first try the drug because it is due to certain social pressures or also to the inability to say no to their friends. Stunners are tried for new experience and for other reasons. Inevitably, as I have mentioned many times, the role of parent is extremely important. Dependent substances are very closely linked. Again, I refer to the ESPAD study, which points out a clear link: the proportion of young people who have started from cigarettes has moved on to alcohol consumption and then have started to try drugs, which means that there are few people who are about to reach drugs. They are still starting with so-called 'legal drugs'. I think one of the very important conclusions of ESPAD regarding parents is that, in those families where parents knew what their scrubs, for example in the evening, are dealing with, for example, who had control of their child, exposure to drugs and other addicts was much lower than those where family control was considerably less relaxed, where minors basically did what they wanted, they spent their free time as they wished. Those households, unfortunately, tried various drug addictions significantly more frequently. The attitudes that come from home, from family, from parents to all addictions are extremely important and play a significant role in the development of drug addiction in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U113	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I am opening negotiations and I would like to ask my colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U114	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm shaking ashes on my head: in fact, this question should have gone to the Minister of Social Affairs. Probably because it's drug deaths, the main reason we turned to the Home Office. But what can they do? It is not possible to give them such a plan if several kilos or tons of drugs are to be confiscated during the year so that they do not remain on the market. Actually, there's another reason. Today, I and colleague Tamm listened to another audit by the National Audit Office on the child protection system. It was a whole new thing to me. I did not know that in six out of 15 county governments there are no child protection specialists, that 60% of Estonian children will grow up in municipalities where there are no employees at all. Of course, I knew that one in five children lives below the poverty line and that such a child usually also has a poor family, that he has only one parent. What can an elder who, at best, works in two or even three places pass on to his child and when will he be able to raise him? It was also recalled today that in 2009 a certain part of the public money was taken away from local authorities, in particular sport and youth work. All these processes will continue and will be strengthened in the future. It has to be said that as soon as the full transition to Estonian takes place in the school, more and more Russian children will remain on the street. A complete tragedy occurs when the vocational education system is also transferred to the Estonian language. This means that there is no escape at all, there is only one way out of the street. As long as the current policy continues, I believe that even theoretically there is no way in which we can give up our first place in the area of drug deaths to another country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U115	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U116	Let's go to the next question. This is Tarmo Tamme, Olga Sõtnik, Jüri Ratas, Priit Toobali, Viktor Vassilyev, Ester Tuiksoo, Mailis Reps and Kadri Simson on 21st of January. a request for information on the protection of domestic consumers. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U117	Madam President! Mr Juhan Parts, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, thank you very much. Of course, enquiries concern the protection of domestic consumers. On 1 January of this year, the electricity market opened up completely in Estonia. So far, it has been served to consumers as an inevitability to join the European Union. However, the study shows that in a large number of Member States domestic consumers still buy electricity at regulated prices. The regulated price of electricity used by households was used by 14 Member States on 1 January 2012, while in Bulgaria, the Netherlands, Croatia, Greece, Cyprus, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Hungary (therefore, ten countries) the regulated price was applicable to all households. Article 3, point 7, of Directive 2009/72/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules for the internal market in electricity clearly states that Member States shall take measures to ensure the necessary supply of electricity to vulnerable customers in order to address the issues of energy poverty identified, including in the wider context of poverty. This can be done by national energy plans, by improving energy efficiency and by providing incentives in the social security system. While electricity markets are open in many countries, domestic consumers are treated as vulnerable consumers, price regulation is in place in these countries, allowing low-income consumers to sell a certain amount of electricity at lower tariffs. The National Audit Office's report also shows that a number of countries have gone this way, that uninsured consumers are given a certain amount of free electricity and that electricity producers are prohibited from interrupting the electricity connection during the winter months. In Belgium, for example, 5% of the population can buy electricity at a special, lower price. The Government of the Republic has so far advised people to heat buildings to reduce electricity consumption. However, this usually means a long-term bank loan, the monthly repayments of which may be higher than the energy savings from insulation. Mr Minister, we have four questions to ask you in this regard. Maybe you're so kind, you read them and answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U118	Thank you very much, Mr Tarmo Tamm. I would like to ask the speaker to reply to the honourable Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U119	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs, I will answer your four questions. Question 1: 'How do you assess the outcome of the accession negotiations between Estonia and the European Union on electricity market issues? ' I would rather answer from the point of view of what has ever been the point of the European Union's policy to develop a single electricity market. Indeed, the benefits of opening up the electricity market to the European Union as a whole are seen in the fact that price increases are slowing down in the long term. The European Union opened its electricity market in the form it operates with the Electricity Market Directive in 2003. Over these ten years, the price of electricity in the European Union has risen three times less than that of natural gas and four times less than that of oil. Why am I giving these examples? Ultimately, electricity is also one type of energy and any energy can be viewed on the basis of the price of the main energy sources on the world market. The benefits to the Estonian electricity economy can be assessed, on the one hand, through our stronger integration with other countries that follow the same rules of the internal electricity market. Joining the Nordic electricity market, as well as the Central European electricity market, are our strategic goals. We believe that this will ensure our energy security and security of supply. There is no reason to believe that this will not provide the best price for electricity for all consumers in the long term either. When Estlink 2 is completed, we have fully joined the electricity market in another European Union country. This means that we are part of the electricity market, where thousands of producers produce electricity, and there is always a reasonable production price corresponding to consumption. The main advantage of connecting to the Nordic electricity market is certainly also the low carbon intensity of their production, unlike, for example, the production of Estonia itself or Central Europe. In 2002, it was decided that the Estonian electricity market would gradually open up. We know that at the end of 2008 we opened up 35% of the market to large consumers, and by the end of last year the market opened up completely. Whether this could have happened sooner or later and whether the transition would have been smoother, it is very difficult and quite unnecessary to speculate about. Estonia's argument at the time was to find better ways to reform oil shale energy, to bring it into line with market requirements. We know that with regard to the environmental charges for oil shale energy and, above all, the CO2 cost component, there was a complete transition now, on 1 January 2013. Maybe it was well timed. Consequently, it is worth saying that delaying the opening of the electricity market would probably not have given the Estonian consumer anything. Indeed, from the beginning of this year, the new regulations of European climate policy no longer allow the CO2 quota required to cover Estonia's electricity supply to be obtained free of charge. We know that, until the end of last year, the price of so-called regulated electricity did not reflect the CO2 quota. This is quite a significant amount, which, of course, also depends on the market price of CO2. Thus, if the opening-up of the electricity market had been delayed, which is not real, since the main tasks of the European Union have been fully harmonised internal energy markets by 2014, the electricity production price would have increased by the price of the CO2 quota and other environmental charges. At the same time, we would not have had the opportunity to build Estlink 2 sea cable, which would have led to a significant increase in the price of CO2 if electricity were produced from oil shale in Narva Power Plants, the price of which would be significantly higher for the consumer than when purchasing electricity on the free market. In the light of the above, it can be argued that opening up the electricity market, giving the consumer the opportunity to buy electricity from different producers and creating external connections will benefit the consumer. This prevents possible price increases and, in a competitive situation, makes the activities of electricity sellers effective, which, to be honest, has been demonstrated for the first months since the opening of the electricity market. However, on the basis of the first few months, it is, of course, early to draw conclusions on the new situation. Looking at the market price of electricity on an annual basis, we can see that the highest prices are in January-February, since then consumption will decrease and electricity will only be produced by more advantageous electricity producing companies. The second question: 'When do countries that use regulated prices to domestic consumers plan to switch to a fully open market today? " First of all, it must be clarified that the electricity market is also open in those Member States of the European Union where regulated prices are used by a particular group of households. The opening-up of the electricity market concerns the access of electricity consumers to different generators. Estonia has regulated the production price of electricity, which is not done or allowed anywhere in the European Union. Here Estonia was unique. Regulating the price of electricity used by households means different regulation from opening up the market. European laws allow prices to be regulated for vulnerable consumers, while competition gives consumers greater effect. This can also be seen in Estonia when comparing price packages for the general service of electricity sellers. In those countries where the price of electricity used by domestic consumers is regulated, there are always mechanisms to compensate sellers for the price difference. This, in turn, has led in some cases to a rather uncontrolled impact on the state budget, to market distortions and often to an increase in the tax burden on the rest of consumers. In other words, when we are talking about regulating the price of electricity used by domestic consumers, it is not through the'savings' or less profitability of the producer or seller, according to market rules, but only at the expense of other consumers or by paying from the state budget. If we look at the various practices you are referring to, as I said, they have an essentially built-in alternative social system that may not give the result that is wanted. In other words, for those who have social problems, the increase in energy prices can be compensated by other public funds. A pretty good example is Latvia and Lithuania. They have this regulation pretty confusing, and they're about to change it. The news came today that the Latvian government will end the regulation of the price of electricity used by quite confusing households in the second half of this year. I didn't remember the exact date. However, both in Latvia and Lithuania, this regulated price, which is paid by some domestic consumers, is higher than the current market price of electricity used by Estonian domestic consumers. The third question: 'Why does the Estonian Government not use the possibilities under Article 3 (7) of Directive 2009/72/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council to protect domestic consumers? ' The consumer protection measures resulting from Article 3 (7) of the Internal Electricity Market Directive are implemented in Estonia. The main requirement is that a vulnerable consumer must not be switched off from the network at a critical time, according to Estonian law, from 1 October to 30 April even if the consumer does not pay for the network service. If the consumer does not pay for electricity, he must not be excluded from the electricity grid from the electrical installation and debts must be recovered through court. Market surveillance is carried out by the Competition Authority and the Consumer Protection Board. The fourth question: 'The government has excelled in promoting needs-based support. Why is there no plan in Estonia, like Belgium, to provide regulated-price electricity to certain social groups with lower incomes? ' In Estonia, as I said in answering another question, there are no special tariffs for uninsured consumers provided for by law in the case of gas, the heating economy or why not bread. We are meant to support them through the social system. As I said earlier, the practice of countries using regulated prices has been seriously criticised by the European Commission and by a large number of independent analysts, because such a 'double social system' is also difficult for consumers who could gain some economic effect from it. This increases, as I said, the burden on other consumers, which in turn may give rise to a certain snowball effect, depending on how the state has tried to define this "uninsured consumer" in energy regulations. Of course, such a system will significantly increase the administrative burden for the public sector, which will have to manage it all. Whether social benefits are paid or so-called energy social packages are made, consumers pay for it themselves. In the case of social energy, whether other consumers through higher prices, as I said earlier, or taxpayers through the state budget must compensate for the difference in the real price of energy. So there is clearly a choice here, either to pay social benefits to those who really need them or to create a complex administrative scheme in the form of social energy. I will give you a brief overview of the situation in Estonia. According to the 2013 State Budget Act, in 2013 the subsistence limit for a person living alone and the first member of the family will be EUR 76 70 cents per month, the second and each subsequent member will have EUR 61 36 cents per month. In addition, additional social benefits can be obtained. It is paid to a single parent whose family members are minor children. In order to ensure that the amount of money remaining within the income limit is paid, the income support is paid, including for the payment of the electricity bill. Income support is paid by the municipality from the state budget. By the end of last year, income support in Estonia had been paid a total of 16 million euros. Local authorities may also pay additional social benefits from their budget in accordance with the conditions and procedures laid down by the council. Thus, if a family or person is in trouble as a result of rising energy prices, the current social system, including income support, should still be used. This is much more practical than to foresee some sort of separate social energy in the energy price system and to determine who has access to it. The use of the social system has been a Nordic route. If you look at the overview of Europe's countries, I understand that you have done so in preparation for an inquiry, you will see that all the more competitive countries in Europe use a single social system, not a double social system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U120	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U121	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You have certainly calculated in your house what the price of the CO2 quota should be, so that the price of electricity has risen to the same level since the beginning of this year, even if we had not opened up the market. Can you tell me what it's like? Secondly, Latvia and Lithuania are often mentioned as examples. The question is why we do not do as they do, as if they had been better off opening up the electricity market. You yourself said that in Latvia some consumers have a much higher electricity price than we have here in Estonia. Perhaps you will also talk a little bit about the chronology of the opening of the Latvian and Lithuanian electricity markets?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U122	I will answer the first question first. The rule of the axe is this (but it is really the rule of the axe, I hope all listeners will understand this): one euro for a tonne of CO2 means one euro in addition to the cost of producing electricity in megawatt-hours. In other words, if in 2012 the so-called regulated price was around EUR 32 per megawatt-hour (I speak in euro for megawatt-hours, not in cents per kilowatt-hour), then last year's mid-year forecasts for the price of CO2 on the market fluctuated between EUR 7 and EUR 10 per megawatt-hour. Two years ago, when Eesti Energia made an investment decision, the European Commission recommended that EUR 19 per tonne of CO2 be used as a basis for market investment. If you look at the prices in January, you will see that the reality is about EUR 4 per tonne of CO2. But the question is what the CO2 quota market is going to do. We can say that in January, when the new system was launched on the European market, all predicted very high CO2 prices, but in the new market situation, when all issuers have to buy quotas, the market price is relatively low at EUR 4. If we add up 7 euros, which was, I think, a conservative estimate six months ago, we get about 40 euros for a megawatt-hour. We must take into account, in particular, that pursuant to Estonian law, a number of environmental charges also entered into force. If we look at the stock market price, which was EUR 40 cents in January (EUR 40 to 41), it will come more or less along with environmental charges. Of course, the situation of producers who issue CO2 may change sharply if other price prospects arise in the issuing trade. It's all very short-lived. We know that there is currently a very serious debate in Europe, because the CO2 market is not sufficiently launched to motivate cleaner solutions for the environment. Whether it is in our interest (I mean companies and also the Estonian state) or not, it is a separate issue, but the intercourse is something like this. We could say it's pretty much one to one. If the cost of CO2 is lower, of course it is more useful to the manufacturer. We see that also those Estonian producers that produce CO2 by issuing can export it. This is useful for our foreign trade balance; we are also competitive in the Latvian and Lithuanian markets, for example. I take this opportunity to say that I do not think that the middle party dares to ask me this question and I mention that one separate story is an article published by Kalev Kallo on the weekend. I read it and found eight false claims. Then I stopped reading. It was a series of direct numerical false claims. He manipulated the numbers. One lie concerning Kalle Palling's question was related to the same CO2: you see, Eesti Energia does not have to buy everything, Ansip, Parts and Government, the bad IRL and Reform Party traded it out of the European Commission. No, categorical no. Actually, we're trying to subtract it. A free quota of CO2 is a calculated unit in order to make investments leading to an improvement in the environmental condition. It has been transferred to cash so that the return on the investment is higher. It does not exempt an undertaking from having to obtain an operational CO2 quota on the market. Kalev Kallo manipulated him by showing how he discovered money in the pocket of a bad company. But that's it. As far as Latvia and Lithuania are concerned, I would not go into the details. This has been repeatedly declared, and I believe that we can realise it. The system of the Latvian and Lithuanian electricity producers' markets still adapts to the rules of the Nordic power exchange and is concentrated around this institution. We know that this decision has basically been made in Lithuania. A few years ago, they made their own kind of stock exchange. They keep market entrants in a position to work very opaque with large retail clients. It's rather difficult to enter the market there, it's not on our market. But both Latvia and Lithuania have declared that they will finally join the Nord Pool system and will lose the various restrictions on access to different consumers, which are, I dare say, random in nature. I hope this happens in a year or two. Promises have been made earlier, but it seems to me that, at least in this respect, regulations are moving forward in Latvia and Lithuania, which will certainly ultimately win the Estonian consumers too.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U123	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U124	Thank you. Dear Minister for Economic Affairs, Rising electricity bills will not only increase people's household costs, but higher electricity bills will also lead to higher prices, as all small and medium-sized enterprises will add this to the price of their goods and services. However, in order to ease the price increase, it would be possible, for example, to lower the electricity excise duty. When we first raised this issue in spring 2011, you said on 16 May that it cannot be said that the opening up of the electricity market will lead to price increases. You said that if we look at Nord Pool's experience over 10 to 15 years, we will see that there have been times when the price there was cheaper than the regulated price in Estonia, that this could also be possible now, and this could be our scenario. Perhaps in May 2011, you promised that the price on the stock exchange could mean a fall in the price of electricity. What are you predicting, when will the Estonians be faced with a fall in electricity prices and whether this could also happen to household consumers using general service, or whether it would definitely be necessary to go to the stock market?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U125	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that, when we are talking about the impact on the economy, I am not talking about the impact on inflation at the moment, but about the impact on the economy, on the competitiveness of the company and on the possible increase in prices, most of the business was actually concerned at the beginning of 2009. This is 35% of our electricity market, mostly large consumers and exporters. In this Chamber too, if you remember, there was a very big discussion that perhaps the opening-up of the electricity market should be postponed, as it reduces the ability of our companies to export and compete on international markets. In a time of economic crisis, this was, frankly, a serious place of analysis. We analysed the cost component of electricity prices in the various sectors. It turned out it wasn't significant. Eesti Pank also said about small businesses that the cost of electricity as a cost component is rather marginal, perhaps 1% of the costs. It depends, of course, on production, but it's quite small. Returning to 2009, when we opened the electricity market, it has to be said that, of course, this was a change for these companies. However, I recall that after the opening of the electricity market, good export performance developed in 2010, exports started to progress. With such a change, it is not possible to search for linear relationships that will cause something terrible to happen. That is actually the case, I think, in many cases, also in this case. Of course, the situation needs to be monitored and the same issues remain relevant to the extent to which there is competition for products and services whose price is only on the Estonian market, and how one or the other company is trying to take advantage of this price increase. But I wouldn't create a linear relationship here. I forgot the main question. So, when's the price going down? I say with all seriousness, without trying to please your constituents, honourable middle party: it is an asset to draw some fundamental conclusions about the stock exchange price and its formation from a half-year, year and even two-year perspective. That depends on a lot of things. Let us remember what the regulated price would be today in this situation, and I will disregard all the positive factors: the investment environment, the accession to larger markets, etc. The regulated price would be EUR 40 per megawatt-hour. Let's remember that and see what comes next month. I'm pretty sure if this is the situation, the stock market will definitely go down. As far as the general service is concerned, I have not been able to say this from this remote control since 1 January, but the fact remains that all these fears about the opening up of the market, which you, too, have been relatively active, have not received much public response. 65% of consumers entered into one contract or another. I do not particularly like to talk about a record, but if you look at the experiences of other European countries, you can call it a remarkable result. I do not believe that an Estonian person or an Estonian entrepreneur is so silly that he does not get more or less up to date, he does not make himself generally clear, he cannot choose a contract, he cannot make a sound decision. That was actually the answer to those fears. Why am I saying this? I think that the number of people who have not signed any contracts and who use the general service (which is therefore used in more than 30% of the places of consumption) is decreasing. This makes sense because, if it is possible to conclude a contract, it is likely that the cost of selling, which is in itself a very small part of the final electricity bill, will certainly be a better managed cost for this consumer too.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U126	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U127	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. A few days ago, we could read that rising electricity prices would increase the income of the country by one tenth. Was an accelerated transition to a free electricity market without exceptions a conscious step by the government to increase revenue from the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U128	The answer is no. On your question, there were, as usual, some of these morning undercombat charges. If you look at electricity revenue in the budget, you will see that there is certainly no increase. The government has no such desire. Secondly, speaking of the accelerated transition, it has to be said that the Estonian people approved accession to the European Union in 2002, based on the Treaty of Accession to the European Union. You say, of course, that the ordinary person who visited the ballot box did not take out this 500-page accession treaty and did not start reading it. Of course not! But the fact that 11 years ago the Estonian state committed itself to joining this single market, which is part of the electricity market, cannot in any way be called an accelerated transition. Don't forget, I've had a chance to meet hundreds of people and talk about it. Let me give you an example. If you remember, Edgar Savisaar, as head of the Estonian SSR government, fought for regulated prices until he was removed from that booth. Then came the reasonable Tiit Vähi, who released all prices, and the Estonian people moved to a normal market economy. It was hard, all of us did. I remember when I graduated from college, there was no money to buy a soapbox. But we embraced the market economy, but now, in one area, we're bulging as if it were some kind of global achievement. At the same time, I do not want to say at all that it is not important for the government coalition, and in my opinion, that all people, including those who are struggling to cope, find a reasonable solution so that we have a social benefit system that can compensate for this share of the human budget. After all, we have confirmed that social benefits cover this increase. Now it's going to be made into some kind of big number, talking about an accelerated transition, or 11 years' notice. How much did we know in advance that the idiotic Soviet plan economy would end in the end? Savisaar was the last bunk in front of that silencer. When he got kicked out of there, the market economy started and we started to live normally, at least in economic terms. Thank you, Tiit Vähi.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U129	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! This is not exactly your area of responsibility, but you stressed that Estonia chose another support system using income support. Now we've got the first power bill. Do you not have at hand the first conclusions that these first months have brought about in terms of the number of applicants for income support? Has the number of applicants increased since last year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U131	Thank you. Good question. I don't have these accounts here, but I think it's worth watching, looking at the structure and size of income support and other social benefits payments, and looking at them a year ago. That is certainly what my social affairs minister colleague is doing, and I will take a look at it myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U132	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U133	Thank you. Minister, is everything regulated in the Estonian legal area in relation to the open electricity market, or are there still bottlenecks where the state could take further steps?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U134	There are certainly bottlenecks, I am absolutely sure of that. This is a somewhat new position and bottlenecks are from the perspective of all parties. If the imperfection of the electricity market is referred to and done constructively, then, I think, there are many things that can be improved. Provides improvements from the point of view of consumers, from the point of view of sellers, from the point of view of manufacturers and regulators. Within the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Consumer Protection Board and the Competition Board are directly involved in this area, as are companies such as Elering. All of them have monitoring, analysis and, if necessary, changes in their work plans this year to make it very friendly to the consumer, so that it is actually more or less the same as in Finland. We believe that this is reasonably organised, even if the price is an unpleasant surprise for us, but we know that at least the system is transparent and fair and the price is set correctly in the long term. This is ensured that we are part of a larger market. This will ensure more sensible investments and a more reasonable price. We're not building our hopes on some big Allah who gives us a little bit of social electricity, I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U135	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U136	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with the question of my colleague, Deniss Borodich. Today there is no way to get this overview, as income support will be formalised every month until the 20th. But social workers have already complained that a much bigger problem is that a two-member family, such as a mother with a child, has a subsistence limit for which this allowance can be paid, EUR 138, but very many families, and I believe that many people living alone also have an income of one or two euros higher than that limit. They cannot apply for income support, even though in fact their coping has significantly deteriorated compared to the time before the electricity price rises. Social workers have complained of another concern: needs-based family benefits do not take into account costs at all. This means that only income is taken into account when applying for it. Are you familiar with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U137	I believe the Minister of Social Affairs is following these issues. I certainly support the fact that we must make the social system effective, sometimes less bureaucratic. Your examples show that one or two euros above a certain level will give a person a signal that he may have to show himself even worse than he actually did in order to receive this support. I have no doubt the Minister of Social Affairs is holding a pulse here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U138	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U139	Thank you. Good Minister, you have stressed on several occasions that all this had been known to the people of Estonia 11 years ago, they had to be well prepared to go to the free market. But from what you're saying, it's like a person's fault is on a low income. I think that, not only in the view of the opposition voters, but also in the view of the IRL voters, this is one thing that the government should consider. You said that exports increased significantly in 2010. But we must not forget the low ground it was based on. My question is this: has the Government of the Republic done everything in its power to help the underprivileged people in connection with the rise in electricity prices?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U140	Thank you. That's a really great question. But knowing you, good questioner, and your sincere and great heart, may I ask that maybe we can bring the discussion to this level so that you do not put words in my mouth in the introduction to your question. I think it is a very dangerous disease that is spreading in the public space of Estonia. You can do that, but I don't think it's correct. I didn't say the things you said I said or the impression you had of what I was saying. Now the answer to the price of uninsured people and electricity. I believe that the government has not worked in vain to raise the salaries of all public sector employees this year, to raise pensions and allowances as much as possible. We know the state of our state budget, as well as what it may mean, but it may not. I think this is an important step. Of course, we will do the maximum to ensure that people's income continues to grow. We know what it depends on. When we made the budget in September, there was a clear understanding that wages, pensions and subsidies must rise. However, in view of the very pure 'balance' objective, there were certain risks that the government took in order for people's incomes to grow.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U141	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U142	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. You have repeatedly had to participate in cross-examinations on electricity prices and are therefore familiar with the taxes imposed by the state to the full. Here's the question. In your time, you commented on the introduction of an electric excise duty. If we look at our electricity bill now, we will see that it also includes other national taxes. As a minister today, can you say with certainty to the person who is examining his bill that these national taxes are in proportion, they are in normal balance compared to the rest of the budget, and you are not going to change them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U143	I would point out that the imposition of taxes is the exclusive competence of the Riigikogu. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the payment of renewable energy. Once again, I have heard that, for some incomprehensible reason, the system created by the Riigikogu under the leadership of the Centre Party is very burdensome for the consumer, I would say that it is bloodthirsty, it has drained the blood from the consumers. It's true. Look at how much the renewable energy fee component has increased over the years. This is the result of your work. We've been trying to ease it. Please adopt this law, then consumers will pay 300 million euros less in the next seven years. Please do so and there has been a reduction in national taxes! Don't make big words! We've been having an argument over electric excise. Let us not forget that when the electric excise was introduced, one environmental charge was abolished. Secondly, the relief you offer by reducing electric excise is not significant. That doesn't solve the problem of people who care every cent. It will not solve this issue, but it will raise a new issue in this Chamber. If you reduce electricity excise duties, will you be willing to give up the increase in people's salaries and pensions? There are such connections. Of course, this is a kind of redistribution. But electric excises are all paid: rich, even richer, and well poor, too. Think of what is socially fair and what is effective! Don't make big words! You want to turn the country's wallet over with your chaotic proposals. I wouldn't advise you to do that. So the answer to your question, ladies and gentlemen, is the renewable energy charge. Accept this law now! There will be a small fall, but for seven years it will mean EUR 300 million for consumers. Accept the law! I have not noticed the enthusiasm of any central party or social democrat for reducing the renewable energy fee, because in its time, as I have repeatedly said, it was the Centre Party that introduced this bloodthirsty support. The Minister for Economic Affairs was then from the Centre Party, and the Social Democrats supported this idea with fever. Personally, I didn't support it. People get confused every now and then. You came and spoke with enthusiasm about how we're going to keep our nature cleaner. Let us fix this mistake together! I wouldn't thank you any more that it was the Centre Party that set it up.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U144	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U145	Thank you. In fact, the Social Democrats have submitted a draft to Parliament on a significant reduction in the renewable energy fee. My question, however, is that of my colleague Jaan Õunapuu, which dealt with the underprivileged and the easing of the rise in electricity prices. You said that one thing the government has done is an increase in the wages of people working in the public sector. Did you mean that people working in the public sector are underinsured? Is my logic correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U146	No, you don't. Similarly, employers and employees found an opportunity to agree to raise the minimum wage this year. I think this is also an important step. However, there is no point in proving to me that the minimum wage is not enough. I think we would all sign a statement that the minimum wage could be twice as high. But all of us, being sane people, realise that we still have to work and work to make sure that the minimum wage is not EUR 320, but no matter how big, for example EUR 600. Surely the conclusion that you have made cannot be drawn. I was talking more about a raise in wages in general and those who are less insured. Well, a lot depends on people's spending. My dad's a pensioner, he's doing very well. He always wants to give me ten euros to buy me something good. He's got money. Of course I won't.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U147	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Tarmo Tamme, first of all, the speaker's colleague.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U148	Madam President! Minister, thank you very much. I'm sorry that such a serious issue is being made a joke. It's not a joke when people turn off the electric boiler and start cooking hot water again on a wood stove. This is the reality of Estonia now. Estonia's reality is also that according to the survey, one third of the Estonian population has already decided to leave Estonia or they are planning to leave Estonia. Is it not one reason here that the price of electricity imposed by the Estonian state is above reason? I just read a student's opinion story. The author wonders how it is possible to manage home expenses in Estonia at all. A large part of the cost of home is up to the Government of the Republic. I guess the Government of the Republic has decided that it is the easiest way to fill the state budget, that it is the most secure tax. The price of electricity is actually the tax. It's a hidden tax, let the Minister speak here what he wants. Is this the Estonia we wanted to see, that if we go around tonight or at night, the villages are blind, the streets of the city are only lit by a few lanterns, because the budgets of local governments are regulated by the number of lighting points? I don't think that's very rational. When it is said that local authorities could pay people more benefits, then, yes, there are many other lanterns that need to be turned off. Surely the increase in electricity prices could have been mitigated. There were a number of measures to this end. One was the same reduction in electric excise that we've been very much defending here. This would have reduced electricity prices by 4.6%. VAT exemptions could also have been introduced. Interestingly, if 14 countries are thinking about price regulation for vulnerable consumers, how they can handle it, we are told to take income support, and 66 euros should keep a person alive for a month. Well, let the Minister try to handle the money himself. Only then could he say that the state protects people. The profits of Eesti Energia could also have been taken out less. Does the Estonian Competition Authority still work? I read that Eesti Energia has a profit margin of 26%. Whose pocket is the money taken from? The Competition Authority should intervene here immediately and summon the leaders of Eesti Energia, because I find this profit margin outrageous. The argument that we had to switch to the free market at the moment does not apply because Estonia had four years to switch to a free electricity market. This obligation would have been in 2017, by then all the networks should have been built up. For example, Estlink 2 has not been built, but it might have brought significant relief to Estonian electricity consumers. When it is said that electricity consumers are being protected by lowering renewable energy charges, it must be borne in mind that this will only bring relief of 1.6%. Actually, it's a world-view question. The Minister is an advocate of the free market, but the people of Estonia also have the opportunity and right to freely choose the country in which they want to live. They choose the country where people are treated more normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U149	Thank you. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U150	Ladies and gentlemen, Our Minister of Economic Affairs may be a supporter of the free market, and we in the Riigikogu do not have anything to do with the fact that Estonia has transferred to the free energy market, other than accept it. The free market may have increased the exchange price of electricity, but this price increase should not necessarily have been so high for domestic consumers. The fact that the free market will bring an increase in prices to the domestic consumer and to the small and medium-sized enterprise started to talk as early as 2011. I also reminded the Minister that in 2011 our proposal to reduce electricity excise duty was improved as from 1 January 2013 saying that the free market could also mean cheaper electricity. Now we know that the free market has not meant cheaper electricity. The average electricity bill has risen by 23 to 25%. In 2012, the Ministry of Economic Affairs changed its rhetoric and said that, true, national decisions add a number of additional charges to the electricity tariff, the highest of which is Elering's network fee, but also taxes, in addition to excise duties, the renewable energy fee and all the VAT. The Ministry of Economic Affairs came up with the idea of reducing the renewable energy fee. It was suggested that instead of reducing the electricity excise duty, there would be a reduction in the price of renewable energy. Indeed, even according to the most courageous plans of the Minister for Economic Affairs, its impact would have been half that of reducing electricity excise duty to the minimum permitted in the European Union. Half as small, but with a reduction in excise duty, a reduction in the renewable energy fee would still be helpful. It's the middle of February today. Let us be honest, Minister for Economic Affairs Juhan Parts has reached a dead end by reducing the renewable energy fee. The Riigikogu has not reached the impasse, Edgar Savisaar has not reached the impasse, but Juhan Parts has reached the impasse. At the time that this law was passed, the Centre Party was indeed in government, but at that time Parliament had a different role to play. Minister of Economic Affairs Edgar Savisaar did not offer the high renewable energy fee that Juhan Parts wants to attribute to him now, it came from the Riigikogu. At the time, the majority of the Riigikogu, which may not always have come together with the majority of the government, was able to think and take decisions. Now the majority of the Riigikogu does what the government wants, without the ability to think. But sometimes when a part starts to think, the great laws that come from Juhan Parts are stuck. That is why this draft renewable energy fee is stuck in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Not for the sake of the Centre Party, not for the sake of the sots, in our opinion, this bill could have reached the grand hall of the Riigikogu, which is tossed because the IRL and Reform Party cannot reach an agreement between them. Of course, party discipline does not allow us to ask for the help of the Centre Party and the Social Democrats, if that is necessary. The thing about the renewable energy charge is that the law has now been processed in such a way that we can probably discuss it here in one way or the other, but it is of no use at all. This reminds us of the anti-monopoly law, which brought about an increase in the price of water and heating across Estonia, and the law that was adopted for those in need of home loans, which does not help anyone. If the draft law on renewable energy charges reaches this hall, it will probably not reduce the subsidies for renewable energy producers. There's a ringing title, but the power bills are just as big when they get to the mailbox. So it's nice to have rhetorical excuses for not doing anything. I think the honest answer is, in fact, what was said today in the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu: high prices are simply suitable for the current government, because higher VAT is added to high prices and this helps to fill the state budget. There is nothing concrete about the price increase. Any rhetorical excuses can be found for your inactivity. The fact is that the government does not want to control the price of electricity, because the high price helps to keep the state budget in balance on paper very conveniently. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U151	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U152	Next, we will discuss the members of the Riigikogu, Rannar Vassilyev, Kajar Lember, Jaak Allik, Helmen Küti, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Andres Anvelt, Marianne Mikko, Neeme Suur, Karel Rüütli, Rein Randver and Jaan Õunapuu on 23 January. a request for information on AS Eesti Energia's investments in Jordan and the United States of America. I would like to ask my colleague Rannar Vassilyev of the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U153	In addition to the interesting topics concerning the price of electricity, which has attracted quite a lot of attention here in the Riigikogu Hall, as well as the topics concerning the investments of Eesti Energia in the construction of Narva's new power plant, their justification, meaningfulness and perspective in the future, the topics related to Eesti Energia are even more exciting. In addition to the domestic market, Eesti Energia has also invested enthusiastically in foreign markets. Two investments that have been of interest to the members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party have been made in Jordan and the United States. As we know, since 2010, Eesti Energia has participated in a joint project aimed at producing oil shale oil in Jordan. At first, the share of Eesti Energia in this joint project was 76%, now it has fallen to 65%. The participation of the Near East Group in Jordan's local company has also decreased from 20% to only 5%. In fact, we are not interested even so much in the fall in the participation of Eesti Energia in this project, as it is the decline in the participation of this Jordanian company. Our concern arises from the fact that, given what the state is, it may seem to be quite beneficial for the success of the project if the participation of the local company is significant. If this is no longer so significant, the question will inevitably arise as to whether the project perspective will be as optimistic in the future as it was before or no longer. This is why we are primarily interested in the investment of Eesti Energia in Jordan. We also have the question of how much has been spent on the planned investment and whether the objective of the investment, which was initially the production of oil and electricity, has been adjusted or is still in force in this form. The second issue concerns the United States of America, namely the state of Utah, where Eesti Energia has also invested. On the basis of the materials published in the press, the members of the Estonian Energy Council have called this investment risky. The last tests carried out on oil extracted from oil shale in America were not very promising. There has been speculation about a possible loss of up to $100 million. I also say that an inquiry has been made about euro, but in fact, at least the press claims there is an estimated risk of $100 million. The perspective of the future of this investment has given rise to similar questions. We are particularly concerned that Eesti Energia is a company that has had to be boosted from the Treasury in its investments. It is recalled that last year, EUR 150 million went to be boosted under the name of the expansion of the share capital, with EUR 200 million planned for this year, or a total of EUR 350 million. As mentioned, in addition to the investments planned on foreign markets, Eesti Energia has serious plans in Estonia as well, above all they plan to invest in oil shale power plants. Consequently, we have seven questions to which we ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U154	Thank you very much, Mr Vasiliev. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U155	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, I would first like to thank you for these questions. These are practical questions and I think they are also necessary so that we can talk about things the way they really are. I'll stay within the limits of questions in my answer. The first question: 'Has Eesti Energia's business plan for investments in energy production capacity in Jordan changed compared to 2010 and has the studies carried out changed the objectives of investment to produce both oil and electricity? If there are changes in plans, what is it about and what is it about? ' Eesti Energia's plan to develop both electricity and oil shale oil production in Jordan is still in force. The e-solution of Jordanian oil project will last until 2015. The design, construction and procurement of mining operators of the power plant are ongoing, the results will be available in the second quarter of this year. The capacity of Jordan's first oil shale power plant is planned to be 460 megawatts. It is planned to be completed in early 2017. In 2013, the price terms of the electricity sale agreement with the Jordanian State will have to be agreed upon after the outcome of the procurement. By the beginning of 2014 at the latest, the project will also have to find donors, i.e. investors. In the background, Jordan will continue to be interested in mobilising local resources. Eesti Energia is known to have a concession contract with Jordan amounting to 1.1 billion barrels when transferred to oil. The first priority for the Jordanian state is to start producing oil shale electricity, because the high price of electricity production is still a major problem there. Just in the background, the price of electricity production in Jordan is 180 euros per megawatt-hour, i.e. it is five times more expensive than in Estonia. In parallel with the production of electricity and related mines, the oil industry project is being developed. The second question: 'How much of the planned investments has the Estonian side so far taken advantage of and what has been achieved today? 'Estonian Energy does not have 'planned' investments in Jordan, which must definitely be done. Eesti Energia has forecasted the need for investment. The Supervisory Board of the company has also provided the maximum amount of investment promised, which has been published regularly in the annual reports of Eesti Energia. The investments have resulted in a concession for the use of oil shale deposits containing 1,1 billion barrels of oil, researched oil shale in the deposits, an assessment of the potential environmental impacts of the development of both the electricity and oil industries, technical documentation for the construction of the power plant, an international procurement for the construction of a power plant and the opening of a mine. As of the third quarter of 2012, Eesti Energia had invested eight million euros in the oil shale project in Jordan. This can be read in the annual report of Eesti Energia, as I have also referred to. The forecasted, not planned investment in other pre-developments is 22 million euros, which has been set by the Eesti Energia Council as a ceiling. Eesti Energia's share of Jordan's project is 65%. Question 3: "Why did the joint venture's participation in the energy company change? 'The aim of the strategic investor involvement was to obtain additional development resources and share development costs. As a strategic investor, the leading Asian energy company YTL was involved because Eesti Energia wants to share the costs of the project. It is also an experienced partner in this area. He has developed and operates many large power plants in the world. The installed electricity portfolio of YTL is 5500 megawatts, owning coal, oil and gas power plants in Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia. The involvement of YTL was also a good business transaction because the sale of the stake to YTL covered the costs of Eesti Energia's project so far. Thus, in three or four years the activities of Eesti Energia have created real value. If we do a simple calculation, we will see that the volume of costs has already been recovered by selling this minority shareholding in the company. But this is not, as we know, the purpose of this investment in Eesti Energia. Question 4: "Doesn't the Estonian side see the risk that the Jordanian side has significantly reduced its share of capital, i.e. almost five times in the whole project? Do we have any information on why such a reduction took place? ' Eesti Energia does not see this as a threat. After reducing its participation, Eesti Energia has a majority stake in the Jordan project and the company is actively developing the project. Jordanian local company has not been or will not be a strategic investor in the project; it is a local private company. Their wish is to sell part of the stake. This is because they are unable to finance 24% of the project's further development. When the company was set up, this Jordanian company was obliged to finance the project to 24%. Question 5: 'How much has Eesti Energia invested in the United States so far? To what extent are further investments planned? The oil shale project "US or Utah' has invested 33 million euros in the preliminary development phase of Eesti Energia, of which the purchase of oil shale stock was 30 million euros. Total oil shale reserves amount to 2.6 billion barrels, most of which belong to Eesti Energia. Not all of them, but most of them. I do not say the bill here because some oil shale stock is also in the US federal land, but the majority is in private land and according to US law it belongs to more than two billion tons of oil shale Eesti Energia. As of now, the budget for the approved preliminary development phase of the company will be EUR 37 million up to and including 2016. Question 6: How do we plan to finance investments in Jordan and the United States? In addition to 150 million euros last year and the 200 million euros planned this year, are there plans to expand the share capital of AS Eesti Energia from the state budget? ' Jordan and the US project has so far, in the development phase, been funded by the cash flow of the sales of the Estonian Energia oil industry, which is earned in open markets. The investments made by the state last year in share capital were not made on the basis of the calculation that investments were made outside Estonia. These are still investments in Estonia. In principle, if the development phase reaches the investment phase, the State may consider whether or not to invest capital if necessary. The current approach of the company is that sufficient investors will be involved in the investment phase. As in the case of the Jordanian project, where 35% of the international investor is already involved, other investors still need to be involved in the investment phase of these projects. The value of this project for Eesti Energia is growing in the process of developing it. Here, too, the same example of Jordan, where some years of development achieved the attractive value of the project, is fitting. But, of course, the aim of both projects is still to reach a real investment phase. In this case, these projects will certainly include solving the investment issue. Eesti Energia retains economic interest, while there is no need and no requirement for the state to increase the capital of the company by this percentage. Question 7: How risky are you assessing AS Eesti Energia's investments in Jordan and the United States? ' As I said, the projects are currently in the development phase, the risks have been clarified, they are being managed. The main starting point for these external projects is what all the world's energy organisations are talking about in their future prospects (International Energy Agency, World Energy Council, oil think tanks, which are more than one in the world), that, as has happened in the case of gas, oil production will inevitably enter the market and achieve non-conventional sources of competitiveness. The second starting point is that Eesti Energia has certain experience, technology (as is the case with other companies) and the opportunity to develop it, given the general trend that the Estonian economy is constantly internationalising. The risks are, of course, different. I think that the most important risk for these projects is the price of oil. We know that producing oil from any non-conventional mineral (the greatest experience in Canada in producing tar sands) is a turning point in profitability, a price horizon that shows the project's realisticness. If we look at any global forecast of energy price trends over 15 to 20 years, we will see that no forecast is showing, and no international company, not to mention those countries that are directly interested in the relatively high price of oil, does not think that the price of oil at changing prices would fall below 80 dollars per barrel in 20 years. Given the trend in energy consumption, which will double by 2030 due to global demand, and the end of cheap stocks in many parts of the world, we see that drilling for oil from conventional oil sites is becoming increasingly difficult, it is clear that we will also see this risk happening in the future. In fact, all other risks are in many ways in the hands of the company. The United States has been asked about environmental requirements. There's a lot of bullshit in there too. For God's sakes, don't read that other Savisaar shit! Someone's writing him the wrong thing, and he has nothing else to say. I suggest you look at the analysis and reports of the U.S. National Audit Office on the production of non-conventional oils in the U.S. These are not only reports for the last two years, but also for 2010, which they renewed in 2012. These reports show great potential, show the direction in which the federal government and authorities must continue to work. In this context, we see as particularly positive that there is also very strong support from the state for the development of this industry.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U156	Mr. Secretary, time's up. Let's continue with the questions. Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U157	Thank you. Good Minister, thank you very much for your very good answer. I think that's the kind of explanation you need. I still have no reason to express my dissent about your performance or to speak of my impression. But I want to ask you about the meeting of the Estonian Energy People in the Economic Commission at the end of last month. They pointed out the issue of risks: geological studies, environmental impact assessment, oil shale testing, when 600 tonnes are transferred to Germany and what it is. Can you tell me if this is the right view that the risk is high and, in this connection, maybe the state is missing some part of the dividend?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U158	I don't think so. I think the important political issue and the question of this hall is whether we share the trends described in the world's energy. Unexpectedly, I would say so, the world is experiencing a so-called oil shale Renaissance, its chances are improving. Maybe in ten years, we'll talk a whole different story when there's been some complete technological twist. But neither in technology for a very, very large number of reasons, especially when we look at energy production, there is any change that is not imagined today. I've always brought this comparison: telecommunication and internet. The second question is what our economy would gain if we tried to concentrate more forces, these experiences and what to deny there, also technology, whether it is good or bad, what its environmental and economic efficiency indicators are and how it fits the oil shale in the various regions. After all, it is well known to everyone, read even the old, decades-old scientific treatments that oil shale has different compositions. I have always said to private operators that, given the global trend in energy, the possibility of producing oil from non-conventional mineral resources is growing, we should contribute much more nationally. We've taken some steps here. We try to develop geology, chemical industry and related energy at Tallinn University of Technology. I think that all the initiatives that are being taken in Ida-Virumaa are welcome, whether it is the Centre for the Competence of the Oilstone or a professional higher education on this subject. I think we should be brave enough to put money in there. There are certain possibilities. These projects have also been carried out today, as many wise people are present in Estonia. The problem is there aren't enough people. The development of these projects requires considerably more people who can solve different issues at world level. As far as technology is concerned, whether this or another technology is concerned, I would leave it to the experts to decide. After all, this is a natural situation when we know that oil shale has a different composition and there is a need to develop, modify, correct technology in one situation or another. It's a normal innovation. Look at the 2011 Statistics Estonia's data on the leap we made with our development and research costs. After all, we used 1% of national income so far, in 2010 we reached just 1.5%, while in 2011 we spent 2.41% of total income on development and innovation. There are many reasons for this, but one is certainly that not only Eesti Energia but also VKG, as far as I am aware, the chemical industry of Kiviõli has started to contribute in one way or another. After all, Eesti Energia does so very much, in part it invests in cooperation with partners. I think there is potential for development here. The role of the state is not to come and evaluate business decisions. It would be a cardinal mistake if we, as politicians, were to start making business decisions. In one question or another, especially in the case of the previous question, this can be seen on a permanence basis. Follow the Finnish political debates. I would never imagine the most important man in the Republic of Finland to say quite a bit about a company: "What, are you going to see any opportunities internationally?! ' It's out of the question. If we want to talk seriously about the need for our economy to be internationalised, then of course it must be tried in areas where we have some advantage. Here we have a small advantage.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U159	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U160	Thank you. First of all, I cannot quite agree that the Riigikogu should not give an opinion on commercial decisions, especially those concerning the state's purse, such as the expansion of the share capital for the construction of an oil shale power plant. This is the competence that the Riigikogu should have or, rather, it certainly has that competence and hopefully the competence to give at least some form of principled opinion. However, I want to thank you very much for your substantive answers. You mentioned a possible change in the price of oil on the market as a key risk, and then you also introduced the quality of oil shale, especially in the case of Utah. It also seems to me that the risk might lie in this other component. How do you assess the opinion of the members of the Board of Eesti Energia (you have appointed these members yourself) that this is a very risky investment?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U161	Thank you. Just a comment: of course, I don't mean the decisions that the Riigikogu has to make, even if they have business meaning. I was still thinking about the business decisions that, by nature, should be the decisions of the company, not of the shareholder. We have to be able to tell the difference here. But that's it. Of course, we can also discuss details and information if necessary. But I often hear from another company how we have to fly to one place or another and we have to start making these decisions at the political level. But that's it. I don't know how to assess that risk. The decision on one thing or another has been made by the Estonian Energy Council. This particular commercial decision to enter into a concession agreement with the Kingdom of Jordan and to acquire shares in the US has not been taken down by a shareholder. These have been Council decisions. These are in this sense business decisions that need to calculate commercial risks, the ability of the company to realise the project and the need to strengthen management capacity. Certainly, such international projects by Eesti Energia are from a different league than that of managing one or another investment here in Estonia. Of course, I also believe that this requires greater competence from the company board to check the development of these projects at a strategic level and, if necessary, to make their own decisions or talk to the shareholder, that is to say, with us here, that something needs to be changed in the company. But I don't appreciate it. I have not noticed whether any member of the Council has said such a thing. The Council has taken these decisions, and I know that it has done so as a result of a rather thorough analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U162	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U163	Thank you, Mr President. The Prime Minister can certainly find a lot of interesting business and political aspects for both Jordan and America's projects. My question is political in that we have not talked about the value of the spiritual energy of these projects. If management and specialists are involved, this spiritual energy may go too far on these projects, so we can no longer handle our home affairs. You were just here to protect the price of electricity. I think it's evil to do two very risky projects like the one in our home electricity market. Do you share my view that there are too many risks?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U164	No, I don't. I wouldn't say it's a risk. If you say so, some kind of online reporter will present it again as some kind of casino business with state money. It's just not like that. These projects are large in scale and require a much more professional management capacity from companies; they are international projects. But to say that Eesti Energia is not able to manage them in one way or another in order to cope with problems at home, it is not right. With this, I uncompromisingly agree that things must be in order at home. But it does not necessarily mean relatively subjective and often very emotional assessments that at home, it is precisely because of the fact that there is an international project going on somewhere. We see very large companies operating in international markets, not to mention our region. You must also learn to run larger companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U165	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U166	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Today's technology and its possibilities leave behind, you can safely say up to 35% of oil shale. You've been a minister for many years. I want you to know what has been done in recent years to make this figure go down.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U167	Thank you. I understood from the question that so much is left unextracted. On this sad day, when we were all struck by some very sad news this morning, it may be difficult to answer. I don't think I'm qualified to give any advice here. But I do know that, of course, the economic interest of the company is to make maximum use of the available mineral resources within the mine.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U168	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U169	Let's move on to the next question. I ask Valeri Korbi, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu, to introduce the inquiry to the public! The topic is Elektrirail new trains, corresponding to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U170	Ladies and gentlemen, On 23 January 2013, 11 members of the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry to the honourable Juhan Parts. The issue of questioning is the new trains of the Electric Railway. We wrote that at the end of last year the long-awaited new passenger train FLIRT, produced in Stadler, arrived in Estonia. By 2014, all Estonian passenger trains will be replaced. This is undoubtedly a very commendable undertaking, as new means of transport make it more convenient for many people to train, and the safety of the Stadler train FLIRT has also been praised. However, several safety experts are concerned as new trains can only be raised on the side. This means that if something happens to a train, parallel tracks or parallel roads are required. In this context, we have four questions for the Minister to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U171	Thank you. Please ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications of the Riigikogu to answer his questions!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U172	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The first question: 'With the support of the European Union, there has been a great deal of investment in infrastructure in Estonia in recent years. Does today's rail infrastructure meet the needs of new trains? " Ten years ago, when, due to the poor situation of railway infrastructure, trains were running at a low speed, which had an impact on the timetables of passenger trains, this is no longer the case. Between 2007 and 2013, the railway infrastructure managed by Estonian Railways has been invested with the European Union's funds around 22 million euros per year. Compared to the 2002-2006 period, twice as much investment has been made. As a result, we can say that two thirds of passenger train sections provide a speed of 120 kilometres per hour. The right-hand rail system makes it possible to reduce the connection times for passenger trains. The rail infrastructure is currently of sufficient quality to increase the speed of passenger trains in sections to 140 km/h. Estonian Railway, together with the Technical Surveillance Authority, is now explaining which sections and curves can be set at this speed. With regard to supporting infrastructure, platforms and all this, the investment programme will continue in this respect as well. We very much hope that, by the middle of next year, we can say that the vast majority of the supporting infrastructure will meet the requirements of new trains. Perhaps there are still a few loose ends, but infrastructure will help to ensure more or less the speed at which investment in new trains is profitable, as well as supporting infrastructure components. The second question: 'There are numerous level crossings in Estonia, which are one level with the road. How is it planned to ensure the safety of train running after increasing the planned train speed? 'The rules for the use of railway vehicles laid down by the Decree of the Minister for Economic Affairs have been amended and, irrespective of the increase in speed, the introduction of LED-type traffic lights and infrastructure is foreseen as a safety measure for crossings by 2018 at the latest. The aim of the amendment is to update the entire existing base for safety equipment for level crossings so that, according to the Technical Surveillance Authority, this would also be appropriate for speeds up to 140 kilometres per hour. Estonian Railway is expected to meet 70% of the requirements. The 2013 budget of the Technical Surveillance Authority also provides for the means to inform about changes caused by new trains, raise awareness among road users and thereby increase safety. Question number three: 'Everything that moves inevitably takes time. Do the structures involved in train running have all the necessary equipment and personnel needed to maintain, maintain and maintain new train formations? ' Elektriraudtee AS, together with the trains, acquired the necessary depot equipment and spare parts needed for maintenance during the five years of operation. The train manufacturer is obliged to train train drivers and maintenance and repair staff during the test period of the trains. The electrical railway Pääsküla depot is undergoing preparatory work and from 1 July 2013 the company is ready to operate, maintain and repair new trains. Question 4: "How have the testing of new trains gone so far? ' Train setup is currently underway, train electronic control software is being set up. There has been a separate check of compatibility with infrastructure, which has, as expected, succeeded. From 8 January, trains will be on test runs. They have not had any serious problems. The tests have so far been carried out according to plan. The aim is to complete the tests on 28 June when the first train formations start running on a line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U173	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? It is. Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U174	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. Certainly, the most important thing is that train traffic starts offering an alternative to bus traffic at a serious level. As Minister for Economic Affairs, do we take slow or fast enough steps here so that we can see it as a form of public transport that really offers an alternative?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U175	Thank you. Am I right to understand that rail traffic should offer a credible alternative to bus and coach traffic? Was that a question? If the investments we are currently making on train traffic cannot be taken seriously, what can be taken seriously at all? What we have done in the whole infrastructure has almost been upgraded, we have bought a new fleet of rolling stock and done everything else that comes with it, is, I dare say, without wanting to account for everything, one of the most important investments in public transport in the period of independence. How passengers receive these trains, how they can put the details to work, so that the system can find maximum use and be able to compete with buses and cars, is shown in the coming years. In my opinion, the focus should be on compatibility: how people get on the train, how bus routes take into account the possibilities of trains (of course, where there is a train line). The centers are here in the cities, I think. Tallinn is certainly important here, because electric trains travel in many areas of Tallinn, but the compatibility of Tallinn public transport lines with other transport is out of date. Let us see where people live and work now and where they lived and worked when public transport to Tallinn was planned. The transport development plan for the years 2014 to 2020 which we are currently discussing must focus very seriously on this. But you can find similar examples, I think, in other major cities. Compatibility is very important, then trains will definitely be used more.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U176	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U177	Thank you. When we talk about convenience, there must be not only comfortable trains, but also comfortable railway stations. Five years ago, we were talking about a program in our country that helps renovate railway stations. Has anything been done about this lately or not, Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U178	Thank you. That's a good question. If you mean buildings, they are of very different status, both in legal and ownership terms. These buildings, which are in the hands of Estonian Railways in one way or another, are gradually being repaired. In some places we have worked with the municipality, the Tartu station building is the last example here. But the general picture should consider whether there is any solution that would allow all these Estonian railway stations, which are located in some very beautiful historical buildings, to be used for the same purpose. However, when you read in smart books about how a passenger thinks, it turns out that the passenger does not come to the station to sit in the building and wait for the train. Normally, the passenger comes to the station to get on the train immediately. All the pompous buildings built for public transport are partly a remnant of the horse age. People were once on a bus or a train from an airport I'm not talking about an event on my own. Now they want to move forward from the station very quickly. In general, it makes sense to raise this issue. I have thought about it myself, and we have discussed it, but there is no general solution to what to do exactly with these buildings yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U179	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U180	Let's move on to the next question. I ask the representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu's speech chair, Deniss Borodichi! The topic of the inquiry is the quality of Estonian Air's services, corresponding to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Please, Deniss Borodich, you have the floor to introduce the inquiry.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U181	Good chairman of the sitting! Good minister! The Alliance of Democrats has submitted an inquiry, the focus of which is the quality of Estonian Air's services, and that is precisely the consumer's view. In recent months, very much has been said about Estonian Air and its future. It has exceeded the news threshold on a wide range of issues, whether it be changes to the strategy, a loss of severalty million euros, the purchase of irrational aircraft, redundancies, a possible reorganisation plan, etc. At the same time, it is sometimes the impression that all these issues, which are undoubtedly very important, are often forgotten the basis for the operation of the service sector, i.e. the quality of services, especially on those routes where there is real open competition. Some time ago, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip compared the activities of Estonian Air with those of public transport. I also agree that the main objective of the user of aviation services is to obtain a safe, convenient and affordable price from point A to point B.Quality can be assessed as an initiative based on the fulfilment of promises: to see if the customer has been taken to the desired destination at the promised time. In the case of Estonian Air, it seems to me that serious problems can be observed here, as customers cannot be moved to the desired place or at the promised time. He constantly hears that the routes are being cancelled, cancelled or delayed. If these criteria are not met, customers' confidence in the company will be lost, resulting in customers becoming more favourable to other operators and therefore the long-term operation of the company may not be sustainable. As a result, we would like to have an assessment of the quality of the services provided by Estonian Air as a representative of the Minister as shareholders, how he sees it in comparison with the services provided by other companies, what is the readiness to act on all technical issues and the conclusion of how he assesses Estonian Air's ability to compete with other companies in the aviation market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U182	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, of the Riigikogu, to answer his questioning!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U183	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The first question: 'How are you satisfied with the quality of the service provided by Estonian Air? ' If you look at all the indicators that affect the quality of aviation services, perhaps from the questioner's point of view, it has to be said that in general, Estonian Air can be satisfied with the services. This does not mean that there is no much better way to do this and that there is no room for improvement. Estonian Air has been a necessary and reliable airline for Estonian passengers and other visitors. From now on, I will also say a few figures that confirm this. In the last few years, especially last year, it has certainly not been possible to be satisfied with the financial performance of Estonian Air, while the number of passengers in the past year was record-breaking for Estonian Air. The second question: 'Which routes have been decided to close in the last three months and how do such decisions affect the reliability of the company and, consequently, the sales figures? Has there been a change in customer preferences in favour of other operators? " The opening and closing of the routes will take place on the basis of market demand, and all airlines in neighbouring countries will do the same. Due to the small size of the company, the changes in the schedule are more acute than in the large companies. Estonian Air is a company operating in an open competitive market. Economic conditions in European aviation have changed rapidly and much, and a small airline must respond to them as flexibly as possible. Based on the current economic performance and future prospects, last year the Supervisory Board of the Company decided to adjust the Estonian Air's course of action. Estonian Air will focus only on those important destinations in Estonia where there is constant demand. It was decided to close the lines for which there was insufficient demand or losses. This summer Estonian Air will continue to fly to ten destinations: Stockholm, Copenhagen, Oslo, Trondheim, Brussels, Amsterdam, Moscow, St Petersburg, Kiev and Vilnius. During the summer holidays, Paris and Nice are added. The company reduces the costs so that they are on the same scale as the new business volume. There is no indication that customers would prefer other companies. Estonian Air is the only airline that aims to develop routes starting from Estonia. Therefore, it has an important role to play for customers starting or wishing to fly from Estonia. Question number three: How many flights have recently been cancelled or delayed due to technical failures in aircraft? How do you assess the situation in the example of other operators? " In January this year, the regularity of Estonian Air's flights was 99.3%. This means that an average of 99,3 flights of each of the 100 scheduled flights took place. The average industry in the European Union is 98%. Estonian Air's figures are therefore above average. In January, five flights were cancelled for technical reasons from the 1061 flight planned. Estonian Air's situation is quite good in this regard, but we, for whom it simply exceeds the news threshold, will be anxiously addressing every news. It creates an idea that regularity is bad, but the figures show the opposite. I don't have last year's bill here, but even then the regularity of the flights was better than average when looking at other companies operating on the market. Question 4: "What is the company's technical readiness to solve similar problems (sufficient technical personnel, fallback aircraft, etc.)? Is this readiness sufficient to provide a high-quality service on routes operated? If not, how and if not, will it be improved? " Air safety is certainly the first priority of Estonian Air and will remain so. The company's restructuring plan focuses on balancing the company, servicing a network of 10 high-demand lines. In proportion to the reduction in flight capacity, the company's costs and number of employees will also be reduced. The company will cooperate closely with the Authority and other relevant organisations during the restructuring process. The company has the required readiness and capability to provide a high-quality service. The fifth question: 'In summary, how do you assess Estonian Air's ability to compete with other operators in the aviation market? If there were no capacity, would it be a better solution for the sake of clarity for the company to fail? ' Estonian Air's main competitive advantages are direct connections and a high frequency of flights to important destinations in Estonia, which are primarily based on the needs of the Estonian market. In addition, the company cooperates with several global carriers in the area of code sharing in order to provide cross-border connections from large hubs to hundreds of financial and economic centres in the world. In competition with other airlines, it is important that the company's costs enable it to offer a competitively priced service in a profitable manner. This task is certainly complicated by the modest size of the Estonian Air's aviation market and therefore cannot buy aviation fuel or services at both favourable unit costs and large airlines. This is a big problem for Estonian Air. The unit costs of a small enterprise are inevitably higher than those of a large company. So there's gotta be a way to grow the scale. This has been a problem for the company since the current main shareholders no longer put money into the company in 2009. However, the interim attempt to grow the company showed that the costs for such a model were higher than expected and that the benefits were lower than expected. Following a change of business strategy in the autumn, Estonian Air has taken several steps to make its activities more efficient and to bring costs together. This concerns the reduction of personnel and fleet and the transition to only one type of aircraft. As a small, efficient airline whose network is based solely on the needs of the Estonian market, Estonian Air is able to cope with the current restructuring plan prepared by the Supervisory Board and the Management Board, but the work on the details of this plan is still ongoing, as you know. It is certainly not necessary to emphasise that direct flights with a sufficient frequency have a significant impact and economic value, with a direct impact on the economy of EUR 130 million per year. Transport Commissioner Kallas said in 2011 that the impact of such a company on the country's economy is more than EUR 300 million per year. Ensuring links with Europe is a strategic issue in a place where we live. We know that air services are one of the five key factors that investors consider when choosing the location of the investment. There are many other reasons why the existence of an Estonian airline in the reality of the current European aviation market is rather a practical necessity, not a matter of pride. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U184	Good Minister, there are questions for you. Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U185	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Estonian Air's question has been very sharp for at least six months. The economic results and impact on the economy have been discussed, but a great deal of policy has been changed. How do you feel, or what do you think, as a minister, that the Ministry of Economic Affairs should deal more with the economic side from the viewpoint of both the company and the Estonian economy or with political hoarseness on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U186	Thank you for that question. To put it mildly, I became speechless and began to wonder what you mean by political struggle. However, I would also correct the idea that this issue has been up for six months. I think it's what we have, I mean, a country by 'we', but if you want, the government or the Ministry of Economic Affairs has been up since 2009. Let's look at this period in this key. There have been different developments and complications here, but in fact, the country still chose in 2009. In a situation where Estonian Air basically needed substantial investment in an obsolete fleet, advance payments were made to a well-known company in cooperation with one of the main shareholders and no more money was put into capital, we were faced with the choice of whether the state would allow the company to take a "natural course', as our Lithuanian colleagues did, or whether this decision would take into account the economic policy implications (I do not know if that was what you meant under political influence). I'll tell you why. Of course, the background at that time was the economic crisis, which also had an impact on aviation, and the price of fuel was high. But we too had an impact on the European Open Sky Treaty and an open aviation market for five years. As a result of the low-cost airlines and other companies operating in the region, price competition was very intense. The choice was there. The purpose and main task of Estonian Air are now exactly the same. The aim must be that the company is financially sustainable and can provide satisfactory air connections in this region. I do not think that the European aviation market, which has developed very intensively for 15 years in the European Union, is perfect. My answer is going to be too long if I start bringing all the facts out here. Okay, there are difficulties, they have objective reasons, but there are probably not the best decisions made in the company. The public reflection of these decisions is exactly what it is. There are specialists of all kinds. Some think that everything was right, and others beat everything to the ground. I would certainly try to avoid politicisation because it is a unique situation. I did not bring here a list of Estonian Air's fate mates to show what many European airlines of different sizes are currently wrestling and how many are being encouraged financially. We don't have to go beyond our area. We can see that this situation is quite similar. The question arises as to why everyone is doing this, whether there is a common knowledge here. Maybe it's not. We can look at Malta, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Poland, etc. I'm sure there are some objective things here. The task now is to see how the company can be restructured. Cooperation with the European Commission is important here. Lithuania's experience is an excellent example that connections in some form are recovering, but they are of a different quality. Our need is for us to be able to travel in the morning to certain important destinations for which there is basic demand and come back in the evening. Maybe there could be two or three more flights during the day to get into the wave of forward flight. I can more or less estimate what low-cost airlines and other companies can offer, not to mention the impact of the disappearance of such a company on the markets. The interests of large airlines are quite the opposite. They calculate the cost-benefit relationships with a completely cold nerve. They see how much people can be put on an airplane in Estonia and transported to a large station: just enough to make the profit-cost ratio positive, otherwise the timetable will be changed. Maybe someday the time will come when the market will put it in place. But we have a certain peculiarity here. If we look at the competitiveness of our economies, the attractiveness of our economies, as I said, the issue of associations is very important. The questioner wanted to know if the solution wasn't bankruptcy. I think we need to try to find a solution that works under the market rules that Europe has. If that's not possible, then it's what the questioner offered. There is certainly a question in itself, which needs to be discussed, whether market rules need to be adjusted in any way, so that they are reasonable given our interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U187	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U188	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Certainly most people who have been in contact with air traffic or met with economic people agree that Estonian air connections are not a minor issue. But at the same time, the resentment for leadership choices and even the legend of salary numbers versus what we finally got for it has caused emotions. My question is: what can we learn from our southern neighbours? They and their airBaltic have gone through that gauntlet in the other key, yes, and maybe a little bit on the other scale. But what positive lessons can we learn from them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U189	Let us not forget one thing. I saw when Väino Sarnet was on some kind of TV show, talking really business, just one but. Estonian Air missed what AirBaltic did in 2003. We know why he missed it. The reason is the same shareholder structure. AirBaltic, if we look at him "theoretically," it's a pretty good idea. I also cannot fully understand those who say that people, wherever they are, could not fly anywhere through Tallinn. I can't rule that out in the principle. I agree with what you said. I have no right to express my emotions. In 2010 and 2011, the government took different decisions in the restructuring process. Looking at what the company's management bodies have offered and at what risks have finally materialised, there is a certain gap here. I totally understand these emotions, I don't disagree. With regard to the current state of our southern neighbours' business, there are very serious problems with the admissibility of state intervention from the perspective of the European Commission. As far as I understand, the European Commission is looking at this and they have gone much further than in the case of Estonian Air. In addition, there is a dispute between shareholders that has not ended. There are still a lot of unresolved issues in this company.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U190	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U191	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It would certainly be in the interest of all consumers to be able to fly from Tallinn to as many places as possible. One option is that this would happen partly through Estonian Air, but it would also be possible to fly with other companies. It is really happy that these companies have recently come to Tallinn, such as Ryanair or Aeroflot, which is back in Tallinn. Is there work at government level to attract new companies to Tallinn? If so, what is your opinion, what are the other possible partners of Tallinn Airport?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U192	Thank you. The simple answer is that it is still a direct commercial activity at the airport. This is the task of Tallinn Airport. By the way, the same applies to Tartu. We can also dream of other connections to island airports that are properly developed. The business task of Tallinn Airport is to compete and achieve closer air traffic. Here, of course, our relatively small local market is putting forward objective boundaries. One of the things we did at the level of the government and also at the level of the Riigikogu was that in 2009 we took the opportunity to make airport tariffs attractive to low-cost airlines as well. To the extent that the rules on European airports allow, we will cover the costs of'security' at the airport from the budget. To this end, the budget shall provide for a separate subsidy. This actually allowed an agreement to be reached with several companies and they have started flying to Tallinn. It has certainly diversified flight opportunities. Of course, questions may be asked about these quality and other aspects, I mean, above all, the stability of the flight plan. But this was one way. If we look at the European Commission's regulatory initiatives, we will see that the European Commission's direction is to reduce the possibilities for intervention. For example, with regard to the airport State Aid Guidelines, the idea is currently on the table that, under no circumstances should the State grant more than 50% investment aid to the airport. We have to consider that we have invested heavily at Tallinn Airport, but this was in many ways possible because the authorised amount of State aid was 85%. Such a debate is ongoing. Our position is certainly that the state should have the opportunity to invest. Otherwise, I think that these investments will not come at all, and the development of the airport could be halted as a result. The state can conclude bilateral air services agreements, establish contractual bases so that third countries can use the airport not only for passenger transport but also for freight transport in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U193	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-18_U194	Good fellows! Now, after the hammer hit, it is a great opportunity to sign up for an appearance in a free microphone. Anyone who wishes to do so, I beg you to take this opportunity! There's no call. Today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 19.42 p.m.
