ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Good morning. We will begin the session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 12th working week. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. It is not recommended to hand over any drafts or requests for information. Let's go to the messages. On Wednesday, 18 December, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Regional Minister Siim Valmar Kiisler. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 76 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 25. Let's go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U2	Our first item is the Prime Minister's review of the state of R &amp; D and government policy in this area. I'll introduce you to the procedure for this discussion. First the Prime Minister's presentation is up to 30 minutes, then the questions for the waitress. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask one oral question. There are then negotiations in which representatives of the political groups can speak. That concludes the first item. Let us begin now: the Prime Minister's review of the state of R &amp; D and government policy in this area. I would like to present the speech chair to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U3	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! The long-term competitiveness of countries depends on the success and impact of R &amp; D and innovation policies on the economy. However, a favourable economic environment allows for the inclusion of knowledge-intensive foreign investment and for research and innovation to be combined. Statistics have put us among the best European countries from our R &amp; D capacities for the second year in a row. In 2012, Estonian R &amp; D expenditure accounted for 2.19% of GDP. Total expenditure on research and development in the economic sectors amounted to EUR 380.69 million in 2012. Although it is about 1% less in absolute terms than a year earlier, it reflects a positive long-term trend. Compared to 2007, when the current financing period for the European Union began, total expenditure has more than doubled. Estonian R &amp; D spending has been the fastest growth in the European Union. Seven years ago, the corporate sector accounted for around 44% of R &amp; D expenditure compared to the economic sectors, currently accounting for slightly more than 57%. There has been a volatility in funding propositions for a few years, but in the last ten years, the increase in the contribution of the business sector has been a definite trend. We can be satisfied if the contribution of the business sector is two thirds of R &amp; D expenditure by 2020 and the total R &amp; D expenditure in the country represents at least 3% of GDP. The business sector's R &amp; D activities continue to be the processing industry and the information and communication sector. Compared to 2007 and 2012, R &amp; D expenditure in these activities has increased by 3.5 and 1.8 times respectively. Developments in other areas of activity have been more modest. In the case of the manufacturing industry, intra-branch R &amp; D contributions are quite differentiated. In order to ensure the competitiveness of products, producers of electrical equipment, computers, electronics and optical equipment have invested more. For example, manufacturers of furniture, paper and timber products have completed smaller investments. The production of R &amp; D-enhancing companies has proven to be more thriving in international markets. The export of electrical equipment has increased more than 2.2 times compared to 2007 and 2012 despite the crisis, while the export of furniture has increased only 1.3 times. However, higher export revenues mean improved capacity to contribute to research and research. The added value created will also increase faster in more research-intensive activities. Improved corporate productivity, employment, increased investment and overall welfare growth are precisely the economic and social impacts we expect to achieve when we talk about the importance and results of research and innovation. Honourable Riigikogu! In the last and the end of the year, we have received recognition in the field of research and innovation, both at European and global level. The number of high-quality Estonian research publications increased to 1618 by 2012, which was 550 more than in 2007. At the time, we predicted an increase in publications to a maximum of 1200. The number of patent applications per million inhabitants has doubled compared to 2007. Estonian researchers have also succeeded in the Seventh Framework Programme. As of November, 489 Estonian organisations have participated in this as partners, with which the European Union has funded more than 80 million euros. This demonstrates the good ability of our scientists and research initiatives to compete in an international scientific community. As the first Estonian, at the end of last year Ülo Niinemets, Professor of Estonian University of Life Sciences received a grant from an experienced researcher of the European Research Council to study the relationships between plants and climate. Grant applied for 2304 scientists, received 296. This is a very large objective international recognition for our top-notch scientist. The follow-up and growth of top researchers and the transfer of researchers to the private sector remains an important challenge. Compared to 2007, the number of scientists and engineers had increased by nearly 900 by the end of 2012. There were 4582 full-time researchers and engineers in 2012, 1421 of whom were employed in the private sector. We have about 80,000 companies declaring turnover, or operating companies. Although the implementation of scientists and engineers in the business sector has increased moderately over the last seven years, we need a dramatic improvement in the trend. In addition to the ongoing reforms of the education system, we should look for additional solutions that offer the private sector flexible and effective opportunities to hire researchers and engineers. The amendments to the Aliens Act, which entered into force in September, are the right step to encourage the arrival and work of top specialists in Estonia. The change allows the Estonian company to recruit a necessary top specialist or researcher from abroad within a few days. It is good that these changes also apply to foreign students. 190 people completed doctoral studies in Estonia in 2011/2012. For the last six or seven years, the average number of doctoral graduates has been around 180 people. Yes, we have made good progress compared to the 1990s, but more is needed for rapid progress. The issue of attracting and implementing talent to us is not only a challenge in Estonia, but other countries are also actively seeking solutions. In the recently published INSEAD's global talent competitiveness index, Estonia's attractiveness among 103 countries was assessed as worthy of 23rd place. Although Estonia is considered to be a little open, our advantage is seen as a well-developed general living environment and an educated population. This is a sign that we could be much more creative and confident in the global'snatching' competition, but also in the implementation of our talents. The position of Estonian science and researchers in the international community is improving. Through the programme of internationalisation of science, we have directed nearly 13 million euros to Estonia's participation in international research initiatives. In cooperation with our neighbours, we plan both infrastructure investments and participation in the new European Union Research Facility Horizon 2020. Cooperation is the basis for success. Thanks to this, we can rightly talk about Estonia as a space state right now. The reliability of ESTCube and the quality of data transmission are highly valued in the world, and the English science magazine New Scientist has described it as a success story. The birth of ESTCube is certainly one of the kinds of activities that society and the business world expect scientists to do from the idea of Finnish scientist Pekka Janhunen has been converted into something tangible. The electric solar squirt tested on a nanosatellite can provide the opportunity to build the fastest man-made vehicle in the world with speeds exceeding 30 km/s. Now it's a space shuttle called Voyager 1, which travels at a speed of about 17 km/s. I will certainly bring out a similar success story and recognise scientists and experts who have worked in the field of Estonian transgenic technology development in recent years. The first transgenic clone calf born at the end of June at the Estonian University of Life Sciences June was the second of its kind in the world. It is quite common in science that it takes a long time to pick fruit. First, Professor August Rauber, who worked in Tartu in 1886, described the cloning of animals. That was 127 years ago! Now we can say that the idea of a century ago opens new doors in today's scientific world. The contribution of June to Estonian biotechnology is difficult to overestimate. May he rest in peace! Good listeners! Estonia's R &amp; D and innovation has been one of those areas that we collectively consider to be a national priority. Seven years ago, we agreed and formulated the main challenges and objectives of the country's R &amp; D and innovation strategy. The results of the period ending this year will be more comprehensive in the first half of next year. I believe that in the last seven years, we have moved vigorously towards the goals set at that time. This confirms the accuracy of our choices so far and the favourable ground for giving new meaning to research and innovation policies. A number of processes have been carried out in 2012 and 2013 to develop strategic frameworks for the different policy areas up to 2020. Tomorrow, the third R &amp; D and innovation strategy 2014-2020 'Knowledge based Estonia' will come to the first reading in this very hall. The new strategy will give greater priority to the competitiveness of the country and the well-being of its population, using the potential of R &amp; D and innovation. This means, in particular, opening up a developed research and innovation environment for businesses and requiring closer cooperation between universities and R &amp; D institutions and the business sector. In addition to the excellence of Estonian science, we need to focus even more on changing the economic structure, knowledge-intensiveness, meeting societal and social challenges, internationalisation of local R &amp; D and innovation. During the preparation of the new strategy, an analysis of growth areas was also carried out on the basis of the OECD's smart specialisation methodology. By using qualitative and quantitative research methods, the sectors with the best growth potential for Estonia's economic development were found. In removing these major obstacles to development, we could create new added value in the economy. The greatest potential for developing the Estonian economy is worth looking for in the horizontal introduction of information and communication technologies, medical technologies and the use of local resources. The development of growth areas must certainly begin to serve wider interests. The debate on genetics and the future of personal medicine launched in society is just one possible example of the direction in which we should move forward. Similar choices are faced by a number of other areas of life that we have invested in as a precondition for developing. The new period of structural funds starting in 2014 will provide us with an additional opportunity in the form of euro money to respond to the country's most important long-term challenges. In the share of the EU's common budget of 5.89 billion euros, the government plans to channel some 600 million euros to a knowledge-intensive and internationally competitive economy, about 360 million of which, together with state funding, into the R &amp; D measure. The aim of the Structural Funds is to give a positive momentum over a given period in order to achieve a leap of development in a given area. The European Union's monitoring of innovation highlights Estonia's strong strength in the availability of the resources required for research and development. We are third in the scoreboard for this indicator. The problem, however, is the low economic impact of R &amp; D. In this respect, we are in the 21st position among the Member States. This means that Estonia must constantly seek a balance between opportunities, needs and effectiveness. Given the high level of our research and innovation environment, appropriate balances should be sought in particular from better synergies between science and the business sector. With public money, we can only support sustainable activities, research areas, research institutions and businesses. A more rational use of resources is a sine qua non of the sustainability of our research system. The road map for investments in Estonian research infrastructure implemented in 2010 is an example of what focusing on important scientific directions of the state means. In my opinion, it has provided sufficient certainty to the scientific community in its plans for the future. The renewal of the Roadmap will be completed at the beginning of next year, which will assess the prospects for the objects and new ideas that were included in the Roadmap in 2010. The list of objects in the Roadmap will also be updated. Obviously, realistic long-term funding schemes must become part of large-scale public R &amp; D investments and other initiatives that make financial commitments to the State. Honourable Riigikogu! In the European Innovation Scoreboard, Estonia ranks 14th among the countries of the European Union. We will be among the followers of innovation, but in seven years' time, we should not be content with it. The actions, activities and impacts of the new research and innovation strategy must go beyond the cutting-edge research objective. We must stand together for this, both in thought and in action. Albert Einstein has said: 'The madness is to repeat the same thing in anticipation of obtaining different results. ' I wish a critical mind to all people whose decisions and actions depend on the success of Estonia's third R &amp; D and innovation strategy! The choices we have made so far have helped us to this day. Tomorrow's decisions are pending. Let us use the privilege of learning from our own miscalculations and successes! Thank you for the cooperation of the Riigikogu in developing research and innovation!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U4	Thank you very much. Let's get to asking questions. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U5	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister, thank you for your presentation. My question is as follows. One of the important strategic goals of the science-based economy is to set a high level of diverse Estonian science. The popularity of research careers is crucial to achieving this sub-objective. At the same time, we know that the junior researcher's salary is very low, it does not motivate young researchers to devote themselves to further studies and to pursue a research career. What can be the levers to ensure the popularity of a research career?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U6	I do not share the view that a research career or a scientist's position is not popular. Talented people are eager to reach the top of the world in their narrow field of study, and I commend all those who have put their hunger for knowledge at the service of society in their research. Yes, as in all disciplines, scientists expect wages to increase. Wages have increased in recent years and will increase in the following year, but no premature wage jump can be allowed. Society lives according to its own abilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U7	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U8	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! Information and communication technologies, medical technologies and more efficient use of local resources have been selected as areas for growth of the R &amp; D &amp; I strategy. Why have these areas been selected?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U9	Many areas have been considered very carefully and, finally, these three priorities have been identified. The development and wider horizontal use of information and communication technologies is very logical for Estonia, as Estonia's image of a successful e-state is known everywhere in the world. This is an area where we have been quite successful and where what has been achieved is recognised outside. It still makes sense to develop those areas that have developed rapidly so far. The same can be said of medical technologies. Medical technologies in the broader sense, but more specifically those related to genetic research are those where Estonia has made progress. Thirdly, better use of local resources. Better use of local natural resources is at the heart of this. This is also an area where no one else will do our job for us. At the same time, we have been very successful in using our local resources. For example, in the fields of oil shale energy and oil shale chemistry, Estonia's knowledge is unique throughout the world. You can be pretty sure that now that the world is looking for non-conventional energy sources, the current and future research work of Estonian oil shale scientists will be increasingly appreciated. Let it be said that Estonian oil shale scientists are highly valued all over the world. We have problems to keep these scientists from dealing with oil shale in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U10	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U11	Mr Prime Minister! It was nice to hear that we are among the best in Europe from research capabilities and that Estonia has become a space state. But your presentation didn't say a word about the state of social sciences and humanities in Estonia. How do you assess the level of Estonian social sciences and what are their benefits in taking the decisions needed to manage the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U12	Thank you. The situation is good. I talked about science in general, not just natural sciences and exact sciences. A broader approach also covers social sciences. The contribution of scientists to the development of the state could always be greater than that of naturalists, engineers and social scientists. I have noted that social scientists have increasingly begun, including in the articles published in the Human Development Report, to hold their hand at the heart of trends in social life. These are not long-standing approaches to society, they are very practical approaches, and on their basis, I believe, the honourable Riigikogu will also make its decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U13	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U14	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister! You spoke about the grant of an experienced scientist paid by the European Research Council and the fact that Professor Ülo Niinemetsa of the University of Tartu in Estonia was honoured to receive it as the first Estonian. It can be said here that even three of the six grants to the Baltic States have reached Estonia. It sounds statistically pretty fancy when you don't know the background. With a little background, I can assure you that five grants from the European Research Council have been allocated to the Technical University of Chalmers in Sweden, one of which is this highly prestigious grant by an experienced scientist. That is why I ask what the government should do differently when planning research policy, so that more science grants come to Estonia. How can we achieve that the Tallinn University of Technology, for example, can have three?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U15	Thank you. Your question to me was as if it assessed our scientists. I understand that, compared to researchers at a Swedish university, our scientists look rather poor in applying for European grants. In my speech, I emphasised the fact that Estonian scientists have been very successful in applying for the money allocated to the Seventh Framework Programme and should be considered a great recognition. The grants received by our researchers have been relatively large, given both the gross domestic product and the number of inhabitants of the country, and Estonian researchers have been among the most successful in this respect in the European Union. Now I don't want to teach scientists what they should do even better. Rather, I expect them to teach us what the government should do better so that they can be even more successful. I think our scientists deserve full recognition. Of course, it is always possible to compare with some top universities whose grant applications have been met more than in Estonia as a whole, but if we compare countries with each other, Estonia has been very successful.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U16	Thank you. Please, Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U17	Prime Minister! You rightly stated in your speech that the IT sector is definitely the growth area of the future for Estonia. However, this growth is still shaped by humans, and for each individual, the foundation is laid in youth. Unfortunately, the current situation is that computer education is not included in the national syllabus in the IT sector at primary school level. What do you think of this as a head of government? Does the Ministry of Education and Research not think that this is necessary for the development of national science, or is there another problem here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U18	Thank you. In most cases, the use of a computer at upper secondary school level as well as at primary school level is permanent. I'm a parent myself, and I've noticed that our child is pretty good at using a computer. And this skill has come not only as a self-student and a home, but mostly from school. Different subjects are taught in such a way that the learning process also requires the use of the Internet, the use of various search engines, different data processing options, etc. I wouldn't complain about our students' computer skills, they're pretty good.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U19	Thank you. Please, Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U20	Thank you. Prime Minister! You never mentioned the name of the Estonian Research Council in your presentation, yet it is the most important organisation of Estonian science. What is your assessment of the activities of the Research Agency in 2013?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U21	Thank you. The assessment is made by scientists. My assessment is positive. The distribution of research money is always a source of tension and there are people who are not satisfied with the distribution of money. At the same time, the results of the distribution of money are, in most cases, a fair and objective distribution and, after some time, people have stated that the system is working. In order to make some more thorough assessments, the Estonian Research Council should work on the same routine for a longer time. It will then be possible to highlight some systemic shortcomings or even greater pros. But I'm happy with the science agency right now, and I think the majority of the scientific community is too.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U22	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U23	Thanks! Good Andrus! Our research infrastructure and the qualifications of researchers at world level are absolutely acceptable to me. This ain't no bottleneck. But there is also a bottleneck, and namely: R &amp; D is hampered by factors related to labour and tax policy. People at home in R &amp; D have paid particular attention to the latter. Estonia is not a country with small taxes; rather, it is less and less innovation-friendly due to the tax burden. This is marked by the 'Academic KesKus' this is a series of articles edited by Margus Maidla on the interrelationship between Estonian society and science, and claimed by several scientists. It is a burdensome tax policy that, in their opinion, prevents research and development, the creation of companies that would make use of the achievements of Estonian researchers. Have you met a scientist or even listened to someone's advice on how to promote R &amp; D through tax policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U24	Thank you. My meetings with scientists are on a regular basis, and today is the meeting of the Scientific and Development Council. Usually these sessions last about three hours. However, I meet with scientists much more often, not only within the framework of the Scientific and Development Council. Your claim in your essence is not substantiated by the arguments. In Estonia, R &amp; D expenditure amounted to 1.64% three years ago compared to gross domestic product, but last year their share was already much higher: above all, thanks to investments in oil shale oil industry, this figure was as high as 2.39%. It was thought that after this surge in R &amp; D expenditure would fall back to 1.64%, but take a finger. Last year, R &amp; D expenditure accounted for 2.19% of gross domestic product. This is a very good level of R &amp; D, a decent level of industrialised countries, higher than the European Union average. The figures measured in the figures do not suggest that R &amp; D or innovation would lead to cancer in Estonia. On the contrary, when we measure input, R &amp; D, we have been the country where R &amp; D investment in the European Union is growing most rapidly over the last five years. There is certainly an impact of the tax environment on R &amp; D. Evil statisticians have even observed such a correlation that in those countries that have ever benefited from tax incentives for R &amp; D investment, the level of R &amp; D remains high even when the incentives have long been abolished. This is, to a large extent, also a question of the company's pattern of declaration. However, I hope that the R &amp; D data provided by the Statistical Office will be more objective than subjective, simply felt by someone. The Estonian tax environment has always been simple, clear and transparent, and it has certainly ensured Estonia's success. I do not consider it justified to make this tax system difficult with all kinds of tax differences, with tax reductions. If the tax system becomes complicated, it is known from the world that the efficiency of tax collection in a complex system is decreasing and the cost of managing the tax system is increasing. The latest OECD report also says about the Estonian tax system that our tax system is the most cost effective. With the lowest spending, we collect the most money in percentage terms, and I mean as a percentage of GDP. If the system works, I don't think there's any point in breaking it. Again with the well-known plumber rule: Never touch a pipe that doesn't leak
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U25	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U26	Thank you, honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! We certainly have reason to be proud that in the European context, Estonia is quite a good small country and is also competitive compared to the countries that are like fate. At the same time, however, we could also look at the overall European strategies, which I am sure you know very well. We are quite concerned about how Europe looks in comparison to America, especially with the very innovative countries of Asia. One of the reasons for this is that we have relatively few bright young people because of our population, but the desire for entrepreneurship and development among our young people is relatively low. Have you discussed this at government level, and what are your thoughts on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U27	Thank you. We have a very good level of entrepreneurship education in many schools. We've got student company competitions, we're on. In my opinion, this situation is not as bad as it was a decade ago when so many young people did not imagine themselves to be entrepreneurs. Achievement at upper secondary school level is certainly worth recognising. Your reference to Asia may be appropriate, but may not be appropriate. If the reference is based on the PISA test and the super results achieved by Shanghai, Hong Kong and Singapore, then yes, they are indeed better than we are. But there is no point in us evaluating our PISA test results in any way less, these are very good results. I am pretty sure that if only the knowledge of one Estonian city, such as Tallinn, had been measured, we would be closer to the results of Shanghai, Singapore and Hong Kong than we are now. But those PISA test results are really worth being proud of. I don't want anyone coming back who says that the country has been successful in PISA tests, and people seem to be educated by statistical parameters, but education hasn't reached people. I hope these claims don't come. Entrepreneurship, however, does not have to be the goal of raising every individual entrepreneur. The population is known to have the largest number of entrepreneurs in some of the countries of Latin America with a rather modest population, where as much as 80% of the population is active as entrepreneurs. But if this enterprise is only about selling its own work, without it being about creating jobs for other people and without it being about export production, it should not be a very desirable goal for Estonia. At the same time, there could certainly be more entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs in Estonia, including among young people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U28	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U29	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! As early as last year, the reform of Estonian science began. As a result of the reform, the aim is to finance 600-650 researchers' jobs instead of 1884 full-time jobs. What is the reason for this huge fall in research funding and what happens to those scientists whose work is no longer paid by the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U30	There are much more researchers, and they will continue to be remunerated from the state budget, as well as from the funds of the Seventh Framework Programme on the basis of grants. I am pleased to say that the number of scientists has not decreased, but increased. The work of a scientist is desirable and popular. As I have said many times today, the volume of R &amp; D investment in Estonia has steadily increased, and this growth has been the largest in recent years in the European Union. The claims that the number of researchers has decreased are not very appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U31	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U32	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! You mentioned in your speech a smart specialisation programme, during which three areas were selected. When I talk to entrepreneurs about this programme, I often hear a complaint about why it is not one of the three areas. Personally, I believe that all adjacent industries could win in the same way if the world's competitive advantage is achieved in these three areas. What would your message be to such entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U33	It is not a question of whether they have been chosen or not. If there is a great potential for development, whether they have been selected or counted, they will continue to evolve. In principle, however, the state must also focus R &amp; D resources on certain priority areas. A small country, for example, cannot develop fundamental sciences across a wide spectrum, as large countries can do. Certain specializations, the focus of certain instruments are certainly necessary. However, it is not right to conclude that if an area of activity does not fall into focus, the country has cut off this development. R &amp; D funds still account for 2.19% of gross domestic product and the country's share is less than half. Who is more stimulated, who is less who this hard work of making choices will last forever. If we did not focus on the use of public money, it would mean fragmentation of resources and the hope that somewhere there will be a breakthrough to the world's excellence, it will become negligible. However, the problem of selecting priority areas has always been that three areas will be screened first, three areas will be added after a long debate and three more areas will be added if the debate goes into a wider circle. In essence, these nine areas together are so broad that the whole spectrum of science is already covered and the aim of focusing on the use of money is not achieved. At the same time, I do not consider the extreme that there are three narrow areas of funding, not least useful, and a good goal for Estonia. We know what has happened to some monofunctional settlements where all life has depended on only one employer. If this employer is no longer competitive on the market, then the problem is the survival of the entire settlement. In principle, this analogy is also applicable to the State and, therefore, a very narrow specialization for the State is not good for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U34	Thank you. Please, Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U35	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Prime Minister! I share your optimistic view as well as your satisfaction with our research and development. It is indeed filled with content, and I believe that public recognition will certainly lead to more life than crying and complaining. You rightly pointed out in your speech that one possibility of growth certainly lies in the fact that the economic impact of R &amp; D could be greater. This means that cooperation between science and the business sector should be closer and synergies should be felt. Universities believe that companies do not quite understand what the benefits of universities are, they believe that universities do some kind of difficult fundamental science and that these things do not come together as well. What do you think would be better for us to do to make cooperation in the research and business sectors more efficient and more beneficial?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U36	Collaboration between researchers and entrepreneurs has been improving from year to year. This is also evidenced by the increasing share of the private sector in R &amp; D spending. There was a question earlier about funding researchers. In the future, a much larger proportion of R &amp; D expenditure will probably start to go to people. Over the last 20 years, we have had a fairly large problem of modernising our research infrastructure, but now we can say with good feeling that a large part of the research infrastructure is already at today's level. While about 20% of Estonian research infrastructure had been updated in 2007, this figure is now 80%. There should be no more R &amp; D resources in the buildings; now the money can be directed to people. This also means that there are companies with whom to cooperate in the field of research. More and more of our entrepreneurs have come to realise that links with researchers need to be established to overcome top-level competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U37	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Our universities must be competitive and certainly international in this respect. Recently, we read that the curriculum of the Master of Philosophy in Estonian has disappeared at the University of Tartu, which gave rise to a debate about science and higher education in Estonian. Do you think the Estonian language has a future as a language of science and higher education, and how is the preservation and development of the Estonian language as a language of science ensured?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U39	Certainly, a national university must teach in Estonian. If Estonian is not used as a scientific language, this language certainly does not have a future. But neither the University of Tartu nor the Estonian state as a whole plan to leave Estonian as a scientific language. The Estonian language has a future. Soon we will discuss the Estonian language strategy again in the government, the renewal of this strategy and the work on the basis of the strategy is a continuous process. I do not see any threat to the survival of the Estonian language at this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U40	Thank you very much. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U41	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! The European Commission has accused the Member States, including Estonia, or pointed out as a problem that R &amp; D is rather fragmented. In fact, it has also been through this Chamber today so that research institutions and businesses can find a much more common language in what exactly research development needs to do to make the most of it. The Development Fund has set out in its smart specialisation analysis the idea that we could have an innovation centre for growth development, whose role would be to promote cooperation between clusters and different research institutions. If I have asked the Minister for Education and the Minister for Economic Affairs about this, their sympathy has not won this idea. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U42	Collaboration within clusters is certainly necessary to drive the world through intense competition. It's a pre-requisite rather than some sort of modern solution. Clusters generate synergies and the development of companies in the cluster is much faster than in an independent drive forward. What official measures should be taken to increase the number of clusters, which is hard enough for me to say. Clusters are usually created independently without formal regulation, and once they are in place, countries will support them. In my understanding, the Enterprise Estonia Foundation also supports clusters operating in Estonia very clearly. In the case of some clusters, when we are talking about science clusters, we can say that these are clusters in the Nordic-Baltic region. For example, when it comes to genetic engineering, we can call this whole region a cluster region. I don't believe we're forming a single facility, and the clusters are coming. These things are usually not that simple, but every good proposal needs to be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U43	Thank you. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U44	Thank you, Prime Minister. We have talked a lot about Estonia today, and I think that things are moving in the right direction at the right pace. But I want to ask your opinion on developments in the European Union. On the one hand, the good news is that the amounts allocated to innovation and R &amp; D in the next budget of the European Union will grow quite strongly. On the other hand, however, it is worrying that investment in R &amp; D in the countries of southern Europe is quite small, falling far behind the Scandinavian countries and North Europe at all. This means that, in the long run, they cut off their growth opportunities and the gap between the north and the south deepens. What do you think of that? After all, you have had numerous meetings with your colleagues from southern Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U45	The size of R &amp; D investment does not reflect very adequately the state of R &amp; D in a given country. It is well known that research and development in certain industrial sectors is very important in creating a new product, while in other sectors the creation of a new product does not require so much R &amp; D. Those countries that are well developed, for example, in the pharmaceutical or automotive sectors, should already be ahead of R &amp; D in countries where the main activities relate, for example, to forestry and forestry. Just one industry requires greater R &amp; D investment in the creation of a new product than the other industry. I wouldn't want to create these rankings in a way that makes some countries look bad. The purpose of producing the voltage lines should not be to disparage anyone. At the same time, it is known that the Lisbon Strategy set the target of investing 3% of gross domestic product in R &amp; D as a joint contribution from the private sector and the public sector. There have been critics who have said that this objective was too ambitious and that the Lisbon Strategy has failed. I believe that this is too light-handed and, in the case of Estonia, this is not the case. For us, the objective set out in the Lisbon Strategy, the 3% of gross domestic product, is the objective that we have all wanted to pursue in consensus here in the Chamber of Riigikogu. During the crisis, investment in R &amp; D in developed industrialised countries has mostly increased. There's a relatively simple explanation. If, in times of economic downturn, fewer cars are to be bought, the car manufacturer needs to renew its production substantially in order to enable the consumer to acquire a new car in order to be able to sell the cars again after the crisis has come out. Therefore, in the old industrialised countries during the crisis, R &amp; D efforts are being made in particular. Everyone knows that no one wants to buy old-fashioned technology after the crisis. At the same time, R &amp; D is an area where it is quite easy to cut spending, just like in the defence industry or national defence. The share of investment in R &amp; D is very high and, if there is no equipment, it is easy to cut budget expenditure. But in the long run, it will, as you argued in your own affairs, pay back those countries. Well, that's all an optimization. If there is still no money, the money is very scarce, I believe that only national governments and parliaments are competent to take decisions on what are the priority areas for which resources must be found and where spending can be cut. I am pleased that Estonia has never even considered a large-scale reduction in research and development funds. On the contrary, we have agreed that there is a need to invest in R &amp; D. As I pointed out today in an example, it may take more than a hundred years for the idea to come out of this. I have said before from this speaker's office, and I repeat that research and development is the same as with carrot: if the spring does not put the seed in the soil, then in the autumn there is no point in going to the bed to pick up the carrot. If you put the seed in the soil, there's at least hope in the autumn when the carrot has been taken care of for the summer. Even then, the result may not come, the crop may become fertile, but if the seed does not enter the soil, then the result will certainly not be obtained.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U46	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U47	Mr Prime Minister! I'll come back to the subject of language. The problem is that researchers have their own professions and qualifications and their respective salaries. Where the profession and qualification are awarded, the published scientific publications shall be evaluated, inter alia. Scientific publications published in Estonian outside the magazines Language and Literature and Loome (for example, the Academy is not included) will never be written as scientific publications. In other words, a lawyer who writes in Estonian, or a morphologist-linguist who writes in Estonian, does not even become a junior teacher because he has not done science. Would it be possible to modify this system in such a way that certain specific Estonian-language purely scientific texts are taken into account when determining the qualifications of a scientist?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U48	It is also possible to publish scientific articles in Estonian in scientific journals. If anyone wants to publish a scientific or popular scientific article in a social magazine or newspaper, it is not considered a scientific publication anywhere in the world. The scientific articles are still intended to be published in specific publications, and only on the basis of these publications are statistical records of the ranking of researchers, research institutions and countries. But that's not the only parameter.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U49	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Let's get to the negotiations. Mart Meri, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U50	Thank you. Can I have more time just in case?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U51	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U52	Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Almost exactly a year ago, there was a debate here on the same subject, in which I mentioned, as one of the factors of uncertainty, the ignorance of the volume of the European Union's research facility in the new financial period. Then there were serious rumors that the initially planned research budget would be severely cut, perhaps up to zero. Fortunately, these rumors proved wrong, on the contrary: the European Union's next seven-year research and innovation facility will increase by nearly 30%, amounting to EUR 80 billion. This is also excellent news for Estonian researchers who have been very successful in applying for FP7 research money. Of the new Member States of the European Union, Estonia has been one of the most successful, if not the most successful. However, we will come back to Estonia's internal affairs in 2013. In the autumn, rumors began to spread, the content of which was inconsistent with the belief of the mind. I checked, looked for sources, talked to people with academics, doctors and leaders of some research institutions, took down the index of emotions, but still the stories remained in the air to such an extent that I have come to consider their content almost as the reality of Estonian research policy. What do they say? For example, out of some 1900 full-time researchers who have so far been working with public money, only 600 to 650, i.e. one third, will be paid. This does not sound credible, but I found the source of this rumour, which is an article by Andres Koppel, the head of the Estonian Research Council, in Sirbis on 4 October. I quote: 'Simplified accounting shows that with the current resources of grants and institutional grants, some 450-500 researchers can be covered by competitive wages. /... / Personal benefits add about 150 more to the same logic. ' The quote goes on to say: 'The Research Agency only defines the number of jobs to be financed in order to allocate its research grants, taking into account the number of jobs available. " So, this 450 to 500 plus 150 is the total of the 600 to 650 accounting jobs that should be filled with three times as many researchers. Of course, it can be imagined that two half-burdened researchers can be hidden in a single job and that every third one goes to the private sector or abroad. But with this side load, it's not easy. As is well known, the Research Agency has just carried out an evaluation of applications for institutional research grants, i.e. the evaluation of the long-term research topics of large scientific clusters, research groups, research institutions. The first evaluators were mostly external experts who prepared their assessments as teleworking, without being in Estonia, and their reviews are classified. After the first round of evaluation, there were two more. The final evaluation has been carried out by institutions and research teams to read, but feedback has been bitter for many. It has become apparent that the valuation rules have been changed or applied selectively, even in the case of the same part-time work. Some issues have been failed because of some part-time working group members, others have not. In order not to remain trivial, I quote this time the academician Jüri Engelbrecht, former President of the Academy of Sciences, from Sirb on 15 November. 'I looked at a number of reviews of the applications that were missing funding. It is interesting to note that a long history of successful research, along with many doctoral students, is said: it is not done at all! However, there are laboratories around the world where this is done, and entire magazines are dedicated to problems of this kind, etc. There are many examples of reviews that, unfortunately, show that the reviewers had sometimes failed to read the application properly or required clarification of the professional terms. ' I don't have the available data right now on how many research topics failed in this way. But I dare to conclude that this time the scientific agency has clearly violated the rules of classical eval, which have resulted in formal and classified reviews, without the possibility of dialogue or appeal. As another academic, the leader of an internationally renowned science group, said, 'Recension is full of stupidity. ' There are further questions affecting the strategic, i.e. the future, in the Estonian Research Year 2013. There are areas of science that do not require the existence of large research teams. For example, in humanities or national sciences, excellent results can also be achieved by an individual or a very small study group. However, an individual researcher or, for example, an Estonian-Finnish tandem or a small group of people does not qualify for institutional support, but must apply for personal support. As a result of the current financing reform, only 10% of applicants for individual support can pass through the process. Humanities, including national sciences, as well as social sciences, are under intense pressure. We will probably see that tomorrow in this Chamber, too, when Estonia's R &amp; D strategy until 2020 will be discussed. It is paradoxical in this sense that Estonia has stood out in the category of research cooperation in the Seventh Framework Programme, namely in the humanitarian and social fields, by the way, along with the security and space sectors. Yes, of course, research organisation needs maintenance, training for secondary growth, opportunities for a dignified retreat of deserving scientists. The mission of science must have a perceived positive impact on society, on man, on nature. Research is a consistent and targeted approach to new knowledge. Clumsy reorganisations in research can cause wounds that do not grow, at best they may be scarred. It is possible that 2013 will be the year of the production of wounds in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U53	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my colleague, Ene Ergma, to speak. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U54	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Prime Minister, thank you for your interesting presentation. We listen to the Prime Minister's presentation on research and development every year, but how seriously have we considered the role of science in our lives? Not really, I guess. I will give you two examples, one of which is from a distant past. When Faraday came up with his electromagnetic induction theory, the English royal treasurer asked him, "What's the use? ' Faraday replied briefly: 'Sir, soon you will be subject to this tax. " I remembered Faraday during last year's state budget discussions, when we discussed electricity excises for a very long time. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, most of you use laptop computers, but have you thought that you are holding in your hands a tool whose power you use only a microscopic part? The ordinary citizen now has computer power that scientists could only dream of a few decades ago. Progress, however, is due to the constant search for new solutions in the scientific world. Now to Estonian science. It's been a good year. As the Prime Minister has already pointed out, our young ESTCube-1 received wind wings with the help of the ESA launcher Vega in early May and flies successfully above us at an altitude of 600 kilometres. This launch has led us to space states, as 42nd country, we have our own satellite in orbit. However, I am even more pleased that one of the ESTCube authors, Kaupo Voormansik, came up with the original idea of using Copernicus satellite Sentinel data (I remind you that Copernicus and Galileo are the two largest future European Union space programmes) to assess the growth of urban areas. This, in turn, can help to plan environmental protection and develop infrastructure. The team of the University of Tartu came to win the Copernicus Masters competition, and this was among the 144 projects presented from 23 European countries. Last year, I told you about Skeleton, a company that deals with supercapacitors based on nanoporous carbon. SpaceCap prototype testing carried out by ESA in the framework of the European Space Agency and the Estonian cooperation project has now been so successful that two real giants in the space industry are making competitive offers to become a partner of the Estonian company Skeleton. At the same time, there has already been a real interest in commercial products in the space sector, such as negotiations with Qinetiq for the sale of products outside Estonia and ESA programmes. Last week, the Estonian Space Affairs Council decided to propose to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to discuss accession negotiations with ESA in the government office and to authorise the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and Enterprise Development Foundation to prepare for the talks in order to become a full member of ESA. Prime Minister, I very much hope that you will support this undertaking. Now, however, I would like to give a completely different example, and that is what is happening in the biotechnology sector. It's about the Cancer Research Technology Development Center. Kevelt, a partner of TAK in cancer studies, aims to reach the European and US markets with Virexxa, a candidate for an anticancer medicine against the lining of the uterus. The application of molecular genetic tests developed by cancer research TAK and its partners in Estonian hospitals has expanded. This means that patients will receive a more accurate diagnosis and a more reasoned treatment. In addition, the risk of hereditary cancer in family members of certain cancer patients can be assessed. As a result, increased monitoring will make it possible to diagnose and treat heritable cancers in the early stages. Overall, both human health and the resources of the Health Insurance Fund will be saved. But I'll come back to the kids again. A very important step has been taken at Tallinn University of Technology to ensure that high-level research and development can find a fast way to entrepreneurship. This autumn, the Innovation and Entrepreneurship Centre Mektory was opened. The main objectives of this centre are to bring together students, researchers and entrepreneurs in an exciting environment in order to solve product development problems in companies and to enrich students' theories with practical prototyping and experience of cooperation with companies. This would allow young people to start working in the company immediately after completing their studies without further training. Mektory also popularizes the insignia of technical science and supports student start-up companies in cooperation with Tehnopol. One of Mektory's goals is maximum internationalisation. Universities, students and lecturers from several countries are involved to succeed in bringing together different cultures, work habits, ideas and interesting solutions. Unfortunately, this short period of 8 minutes does not allow me to talk further, all of which have taken place in Estonian scientific life during the year. I'm not a pessimist and I don't think everything's bad. Very much is good, but a lot of problems have arisen. There's always one. When it comes to setting priorities, I was there when Estonia's priorities were first discussed. Then there were 22 priorities! You see, these are no longer priorities, these are 22 directions. Even the largest countries are limited to the least favoured countries. I had the opportunity to determine what was going on in China, and they only have eight priorities. So as far as priorities are concerned, let us do less, but let us do better. Finally. My party The Fatherland and Res Publica Union is the most important party in science. This is demonstrated by the membership of only four members of the Estonian Academy of Sciences. The last one, Andres Öpiku, we just chose to be an academic in engineering. I would like to confirm that IRL will continue to support R &amp; D in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U55	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a speech chair at Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U56	Madam Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Speaking on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I certainly share this commendable chamber tone, which sent the Prime Minister's traditional overview of research and development and government policy in this area. Indeed, things are moving in the right direction. If in previous years we have been concerned that our R &amp; D expenditure, both public and private, should increase considerably, then now we are talking more and more about how these expenditures could be more precisely targeted. Then they would bring more economic benefits. As the Prime Minister rightly mentioned in his speech, the problem is the low economic impact of R &amp; D. Synergies between science and the business sector should be enhanced. This, however, requires better cooperation between the research and business sectors. In our opinion, the key to a more dynamic development of R &amp; D is the ability to see links between different fields and to grasp the whole, i.e. horizontal cooperation, which is also discussed in the Estonian R &amp; D &amp; I Strategy 2014-2020 'Knowledge-based Estonia', which we will discuss tomorrow. Today, we have talked at length and in depth about the top point of research development, the so-called pure science, and the implementation of its achievements. However, let me draw attention to the whole, i.e. the links with general education, the link between research and development and general education. If there is no foundation, then it is not possible to pick fruit at the top and think about how or what we can tax and where society will benefit more. I suggest you all get acquainted with the results of the student inventors contest. Children in our general education schools proposed 626 ideas. And this competition of young inventors is organised by no one other than our Estonian Research Council, with others. Such action is very important, and that is why the reforms in the area of general education that we are currently doing are extremely important for research and development. When it comes to general education and education in general, we must not forget for a moment that, alongside knowledge, there are two other components of education in terms of skills and creativity. Skills also mean the ability to cooperate and social skills. Their development is key. I would like to stress that the development of academic upper secondary school education, the creation of so-called 'clean secondary schools', is important when reorganizing general education. At present, the goal is to ensure that every county centre has a clean upper secondary school by 2020. This will provide a direct basis for us to always have good R &amp; D performance. Entrepreneurship education must be in all schools, and not only in upper secondary schools, but also in all primary schools. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U57	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U58	Entrepreneurship learning should be as closely linked as possible to real entrepreneurship, which means that entrepreneurship is also taught by real entrepreneurs. Let's take a step forward, talk about the reform of higher education that was approved in this Chamber some time ago in the University Act. The reform of higher education provides for a number of opportunities to improve R &amp; D that we have not yet made sufficient use of. I mean, for example, that the legislator created the possibility of setting up private grants in our higher education institutions in order to strengthen the link between entrepreneurship and higher education institutions and to ensure that young academics think about their careers in entrepreneurship as well. We really have a problem with the fact that there are few people with doctoral degrees in business. If there were more academically competent people in companies whose knowledge is useful, companies would also see the benefits of cooperation between universities and companies. The Reform Party Group commends the Government of the Republic, our ministries, our universities and research and development institutions for their good work in developing R &amp; D, but considers that there are still many untapped opportunities. We are thinking precisely of possible cooperation between different sectors and different bodies. Once again, all that we are currently doing in the process of restructuring general education is of great importance for the development of cooperation skills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U59	Thank you very much. Now I call on Prime Minister Andrus Ansip to give him the opportunity to say the final word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U60	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu, thank you for a meaningful debate. I agree with Mart Meri's criticism of the allocation of institutional grants. Yeah, it's caused enough suspicions in the scientific community that the reviews are still classified. In all areas of life, secrecy is always a source of speculation and great problems. It also seems that the biggest problem with the sharing of science grants is that the reviews have been kept secret by all those involved. If the parties are unable to assess the reviews themselves, there will be doubts and doubts as to whether the distribution of the money was quite correct. I know the Academy of Sciences is planning a seminar on this at the beginning of the new year. However, the allocation of institutional grants is not the only way to share research money. This is complemented by personal grants and basic funding. So scientists don't have to look to the future with pessimism. The total FTE of Estonian scientists and engineers has steadily increased. While in 1999 there were 3002 researchers and engineers in all sectors of Estonia, there were 4582 in 2012. Growth has been remarkable. However, there has also been good growth in the higher education sector. In 1999, we had 1991 researchers in the engineering sector, and in 2012 there were 2534. The number of researchers and engineers in the national sector has decreased in the same period, but this is largely explained by the transition from the national sector to the higher education sector, i.e. the public sector. In 1999, we had 620 researchers in the national sector and 546 in 2012. The increase in the number of researchers and engineers in the same private sector has still been very significant: in 1999, 379 years earlier, 291 in 1998 and 1421 researchers in the private sector in 2012. Once again: in 1999, there were 3002 researchers in all sectors in Estonia in 2012, 4582. Thus, the increase in the number of researchers has been quite significant and I expect it to increase in the future. This is due in particular to the fact that, in the new EU budget period, much more research funding will be devoted to researchers and less to concrete, houses. Our research infrastructure, or infrastructure, has been largely updated during the current budget period. Of course, the space initiatives of the Chairman of the Riigikogu should be supported. They have been important to us and will, of course, remain important to all members of the government in the future. But thank you very much once again for your consensual support for Estonian research and development.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U61	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The debate on the first item is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U62	We are moving to the next item on the agenda, which is the continuation of the second reading of the Land Reform Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws 516. Aivar Koka, vice-chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U63	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading of the draft was suspended on 10 December this year. The deadline for submitting amendments was 12 December at 10 a.m. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The Commission was approached by the Chamber of Notaries, who proposed to exclude from the draft the addition to paragraphs 8 and 9 of § 351 of the Land Reform Act, which provides for the conclusion of a property right contract in writing instead of the current notarial form to establish the right to building and the real burden. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed the draft for the preparation of a second reading at its meeting on 12 December. Representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Land Board also participated in the meeting. The Commission did not support the proposal of the Chamber of Notaries, considering it reasonable to abandon the notarial form of the contract, as it will significantly speed up the establishment of building rights and allow the State to save costs. The protection of the rights of the spouses stated in the letter of the Chamber of Notaries can equally be guaranteed by § 221 42 of the Land Reform Act. Such regulation allows both spouses to submit their application for building rights jointly and gives spouses the right to improve the entry in the land register. The establishment of the building right is the first entry of the land register and, in the event of transfer of the building right, the notarial form of the transaction is mandatory. Thus, for each subsequent transaction, the notary is obliged to verify whether the property is a joint or separate property of the spouses. The Commission decided to formulate three amendments. Section 1 of the draft law is supplemented by a new first point: Paragraph 21 (2) and (3) of the Land Reform Act, which governs the privatisation of land to foreign and foreign legal persons, is amended. In both cases, the additional possibility of privatising land bordering the immovable property, as referred to in § 22 (13), is provided for. The establishment of building rights is further specified if the building is a joint property of the spouses. Paragraph 351 of the Land Reform Act is supplemented by paragraph 10, which provides for the establishment of building rights for the benefit of both spouses on the basis of their joint declaration and the right of the spouse to be entered as owner of the building rights in the land register if the building is a joint property of the spouses. Paragraph 3 (4) of the draft law specifies § 8 (2) of the Land Acquisition Act as part of the land reform. In addition to amending the first sentence of the first paragraph of the draft text, the second sentence of the paragraph shall be supplemented and the amendment provision shall set out the full text of that paragraph. According to § 3 (1) of the Land Acquisition Act, the municipality does not belong to the acquisition of land necessary for the performance of its functions or other public purposes. Pursuant to paragraph 42 of that same section, the land may be transferred to the land manager. The amendments specify the second sentence of § 8 (2) that when determining the extent of the land transfer, the municipality also takes into account the interest of the local government, on the basis of strategic documents established by the local government, such as the approved development plan or the established plan. The Committee on Rural Affairs decided to submit a draft for the second reading to the Riigikogu today and to propose the termination of the second reading and, when the second reading is closed, to put the third reading on the plenary agenda on 19 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U64	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. Three proposals have been made by the Steering Committee, which is the Committee on Rural Affairs, to amend draft 516. Let's go through them. Amendment 1, the proposal of the lead committee is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 2, the proposal is to be taken fully into account. Amendment 3, the proposal is to be taken fully into account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 516. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U65	Today's third item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Customs Act, the Penal Code and the Law on the Export, Export and Import of Cultural Goods, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Arto Asa, member of the Economic Commission for the Chair, would you like to give a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present the amendments to this draft and the procedure between first and second reading. Let me remind you that the main aim of the draft is to tighten up the penalties for undeclared cash transfers from the border to the border and to allow for the weighing of freight cars. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic. On 21 October 2008, the first reading was held before the plenary assembly on 12 November. The deadline for submitting amendments was 26 November at 5 p.m.; no proposals from political groups or members of the Riigikogu were received by that time. The working group of the Economic Commission prepared the draft for the meeting of the Commission on 4 December and the Commission discussed it on 12 December. Eve-Ly Kübard, representative of the Ministry of Finance, also attended the meeting of the Commission. The Commission decided to make eight amendments to the draft, three of which were submitted to the Commission by the Ministry of Finance. In anticipation, it can be said that all eight amendments were approved by consensus. The amendments are available to you; there were eight of them, as I have already said, most linguistic and technical improvements. For example, in Amendment 1, the word 'in phrases' is replaced by 'in terms of words'. Amendment 2: the earlier words 'European Union' are replaced by 'Union', etc. Amendment 6 contains a slightly more substantive amendment. The General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act will enter into force on 1 July 2014 and it states that a single contact point will be introduced to carry out operations related to economic activities, the Estonian Information Gate, through which economic operators will make notifications related to economic activities. Therefore, it is proposed to amend the draft law that the draft text contains two wordings in §721 (4) of the Customs Act, the second of which will apply together with the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act on 1 July 2014. Amendment 7 made it clear that there was an offence previously mentioned in one section, and then there is a crime. Such linguistically formalised clarifications then. And another more substantive amendment was the last amendment, No 8. We decided to postpone the date of entry into force of the law by one month, as the procedure has taken a little longer. Originally, the law was intended to enter into force on 1 January 2014, but the Commission, by consensus, considered that the President and market participants would be more comfortable if the law entered into force on 1 February 2014. All the amendments were supported by consensus within the Commission, including the procedural proposals that I am now starting to read. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 17 December and to propose that the second reading be terminated. In the event that the second reading is closed, the proposal is to carry out the third reading on 19 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U67	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Arto Aas! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Eight amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs on the draft law and we will examine them. Amendment No 1, commission of directors to take full account; No 2, commission of directors to take full account; No 3, commission to take full account; No 4, commission to take full account; No 5, commission to take full account; No 6, commission to take full account; No 7, commission to take full account; No 8, commission to take full account. The commission's proposal was to conclude the second reading of draft 515. The amendments have been examined, the second reading is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U68	Let us move on to the fourth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on political parties initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, in this connection, the amendment of other laws. Ms Rait Maruste, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U69	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Commission s. The first reading of draft 439 initiated on 23 May was held in Riigikogu plenary on 24 October and the first reading was closed. The deadline for submitting the draft amendments was set by the Riigikogu Board on 7 November. Nine amendments were received: the Group of the Social Democratic Party made four proposals; Andres Herkel and Juku-Kalle Raid made three proposals on two; and Andres Herkel and Juku-Kalle Raid made one proposal each. In addition, four amendments were tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 439. The Commission discussed the proposals at three meetings: 19 November, 3 December and 9 December. Next, allow me to present the proposals that have been tabled and the positions that have been taken on them. The authors of the first amendment are Juku-Kalle Raid, member of the Riigikogu, and the Social Democratic Party faction. The content of the amendment is to amend § 6 (2) of the Political Party Act and to provide that a political party is to be registered if it has at least 500 members. The current law, as we know, provides for 1000 members. Since the proposal of Juku-Kalle Raidi and the Social Democrats was identical in substance, the Commission decided to merge them into a single proposal with two performers. Mr Herkel also proposed to amend the same provision, which suggested that a party could be registered if it had at least 200 members. Andres Herkel felt that society should be given a signal that reducing the number of members required for the establishment of a political party would contribute to the diversity of the party. At the same time, Andres Herkel said at the committee meeting that if the above-mentioned proposal of the Group of the Juku-Kalle Raid and the Social Democratic Party were to be supported in the committee, he would withdraw his proposal. As a result of the longer discussion, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided that the number of members needed to register a political party could be shifted from 1000 to 500 to increase political diversity and create better opportunities for new political parties. This amendment is, in principle, in the same direction and in line with the popularity's proposal to allow for the establishment of a political party with fewer members. With a vote in favour, 5 against, 4 abstentions, 2 the proposal was supported by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Andres Herkel has withdrawn his proposal. Amendment 2 contains the input provided by the committee on the monitoring of political party funding to correct and amend the reporting requirements of political parties. The amendment foresees that the party will no longer present the election campaign report separately. Instead, it shall submit a quarterly statement of revenue and receipts to the Commission on the supervision of the financing of political parties and shall do so by the tenth day of the month following the quarter. In the statement of expenditure, the party shall indicate the costs incurred in the following breakdown: costs of political action, labour costs and management costs. In addition, the amendment provides that the costs of political action are to be presented by the political party as follows: advertising costs by type (tele-, radio, internet, outdoor and journalistic advertising, advertising publications), public relations costs, publication costs, public events and other costs of political action. Management and personnel costs shall be provided separately. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that the electoral campaign and associated costs mentioned in the party law could not be clearly defined either in terms of content or period, making it impossible or very difficult to control these costs. The party is a political association aimed at expressing its political interests and exercising its power, and it is constantly, not only during a single period. The Commission considered that the quarterly report would provide both the electorate and the political party funding monitoring committee with an opportunity to obtain an operational overview of the party's operational costs and compare them with the party's revenues and loans received. Such a reporting scheme would significantly reduce the administrative burden on political parties and a periodic report would enable the economic and financial activities of political parties to be monitored on an accounting basis. According to the amendment, a quarterly statement of the party's expenses will be made public on the Commission's website, where the public will be able to analyse and evaluate it. Amendments 3 and 4 concern donation. Amendment 3 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and is intended to amend § 123 of the Political Party Act by providing that the donation within the meaning of the Political Party Act is a donation made by a self-donator with the nationality of the Republic of Estonia, a permanent right of residence and long-term resident status. In short, the requirements for the donor will be specified. The Commission decided to support the amendment by considering that the proposed regulation should be clarified, noting that persons with the citizenship of the Republic of Estonia, the permanent right of residence in Estonia and long-term resident status can donate. This proposal was also accepted. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and is intended to amend subsections 127 (1) and (2) of the Political Party Act, which, in the current regulation, lay down the basis for allocations to political parties from the state budget. The proposal of the Social Democratic Party provides that the allocations from the state budget should be distributed in such a way that 50% is distributed equally among all the political parties that have been elected to the Riigikogu and 50% is distributed proportionally by the number of votes received. When the amendment was discussed in the Commission, the opinion was expressed that, if this amendment were adopted, the weight of the votes would actually decrease, as in this case only 50% of the budget would be allocated according to the number of votes and would lead to a proportional distribution of the electoral system. For this reason, the Commission decided not to support the proposal (by 3 votes to 7 with 1 abstention). The sixth amendment has been tabled by Mr Herkel and Mr Raid and relates to Amendment 5. The proposal is that political parties from those who have received 1% of the votes receive public support. This proposal, too, was not supported after the debate (by 3 votes to 7 with 1 abstention). I would remind you that in the past, we have agreed that state budget support will be paid from those parties that have received at least 2% of the electoral threshold. Amendment 7 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and its content is to set a maximum amount of EUR 500000 per year for advertising expenses for a political party. According to the Political Party Act, direct or third party expenditure on advertising on television, radio, internet, newspapers, magazines, publications, etc. is regarded as advertising. After a long discussion, the Commission decided not to support this proposal. The reason is that it is extremely difficult to monitor compliance with this requirement because the party's activities are continuous and it is extremely difficult, complicated and endless to draw a line between advertising, communication and normal activities. That is why, and also because of the high administrative burden, it was decided not to support the proposal (by 4, 6 against, with 6 abstentions). Amendment 8 is of a technical nature and results from earlier proposals. Amendments 9 and 10 have been tabled by colleagues Raid and Herkel. Their content is to amend the Riigikogu Election Act by lowering the electoral threshold from 5% to 4%. Andres Herkel explained that this would encourage the emergence of fresh, new political forces to the level of the legislator or to the political arena. We also considered this very long and comprehensively, finally finding that our 5% is quite close to the European average and, in today's circumstances, it is not an insurmountable difficulty. Moreover, if we bring the threshold down very much, this could lead to greater fragmentation of Parliament, potentially greater instability and less efficiency. The proposal was therefore rejected (by 5, 6 against and 0 abstentions). The last one, the 11th, was proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and concerns the time of entry into force of the draft. Originally, the draft law was intended to be enforced as the law on 1 January next year, but due to the lengthy preparatory work, which has been very thorough, we are offering a new date of entry into force, 1 April 2014. The Constitutional Committee decided to put the draft on the Riigikogu agenda for second reading on 17 December and proposed that the second reading be stopped. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U70	Thank you very much, Mr Rait Maruse. Let's continue with the questions. Please, my colleague Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In describing the fifth and sixth amendments, you must have been a little confused. It was the soccer people who wanted to start paying for the aid from 1%, not me and Juku-Kalle Raid. I want to ask you about an explanation. Where should the notion come from that a proportionate electoral system means that money must also be distributed proportionally? So, in the case of a major election system, should the money be distributed Majoritarianly, or everything goes to the winner?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U72	Good colleague! Basically, in that sense, you are right that these things are not directly related. But if we use a proportional electoral system, that should somehow also be reflected in the funding of political parties. If we have state budget financing and we follow this 50:50 principle, then assuming that there are four political parties in the Riigikogu, each of them would receive 25% of it and the rest would be distributed according to the weight of the votes. The impact of the proportionality of votes on budgetary financing would be reduced twice. That's my explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U73	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U74	Dear waitress, I understand that this is now the first reaction of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to the so-called Ice Cell and People's Assembly process. I'm afraid those cosmetic improvements in the community aren't exactly happy. Does the Committee on Constitutional Affairs intend to continue to discuss the proposals made by the people's assembly, especially as regards electoral law? I was very surprised that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not even support the reduction of the electoral threshold to 4%. How far has this discussion of the so-called Lukas-Herkel amendment come, which would at least share the compensation mandates a little more fairly? I think it went through the first reading. Will it ever come to second reading in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U75	Dear colleague, we have been dealing with the proposals of the people's assembly for a very long time. Anyone in the Commission and participating in its work can confirm that we have dealt with it for a long time and in depth in order to obtain the most reasonable and satisfactory result possible. However, we have felt that we still have a parliamentary state and that Parliament cannot be the executive body of the people's assembly, which will unflaggedly carry out everything that has been put on its table. This does not mean that I would in any way underestimate and underestimate the initiative of the people's assembly, but we have a parliamentary state and Parliament has a duty to look at things in a broader context and to make the most balanced and thoughtful decisions we have tried to make. As far as the electoral law is concerned, our decision by the Commission was that we would end things with the party law and then we would adopt the electoral law, as far as it was necessary to do there. So nothing is left out or forgotten. This also concerns the proposal by Juku-Kalle Raidi and Andres Herkel, which will be on the agenda next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U76	Please, Mr Herkel, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U77	Thank you, Madam President. The second question is on Amendment 2. If the ERJK considers that instead of the election campaign report, the quarterly reports will come and it is reasonable to consolidate the costs of political action in separate headings, as you mentioned above, on the one hand, why not? At the same time, last week, the Riigikogu adopted a draft whereby entrepreneurs make their transactions more detailed to the tax administration. Let's take the party's commitment to detail down, and let's put it on the business side, isn't that a little weird? How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U78	First of all, I apologize for my mistake, which you rightly noted and pointed out. The detail and content of this report were very thoroughly discussed in the light of the Commission's own proposals for monitoring the funding of political parties. The political party funding monitoring committee is a collegial body with different views, attitudes and expectations, and these changes were also discussed very thoroughly with the parties' secretaries-general. Whether it's the best possible solution, I don't know, life shows. For a time, however, we should leave this thing alone so that we can begin to develop some sort of routine, tradition, and custom. Life shows whether or not this regulation has succeeded, but we have tried to do the best. Whether it all worked out, I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U79	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U80	Thank you. Dear waitress, The Riigikogu, which was in some ways an expression of public expectations, was one of the clearest requests to increase Estonia's political competition, so that in a situation where parliamentary parties receive a disproportionally large number of financial and organisational benefits, other parties would be able to compete on the political playing field. In this respect, it is precisely the election costs that are the key to this issue. You slipped over that question very quickly. In fact, 90% of the population has said that there is a need to limit the number of election costs. In essence, you have talked about this, but there has been no real desire to analyse the matter and to propose any regulation. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U81	In principle, I think that all the participants in the Commission felt that the costs of a political campaign could or should be limited. It's pointless to burn money into screaming television commercials on private channels, etc. But how can we do all this so that it does not lead to endless disputes so that we do not have to set up a separate supervisory body to solve and assess the consequences of over-expenditure and the disputed events? After discussing it back and forth, we found it quite hopeless. However, this has not been quite sidelined, as one segment will probably have to be dealt with further. After all, we also have in the process the so-called Valdo Randpere draft on how to control the misuse of public funds in party activities. The subject is still on the table. If there is some kind of good solution to how to monitor and other things of this kind to prevent disputes, it would be very good, we are ready to discuss the proposals. I personally strongly oppose the political process being led by police supervision and sanctions. Democracy should not work as if there is a policeman who follows and measures the poster or watches this poster appear from this corner or from that corner, whether it is visible or not visible. I don't think it's the path we should have gone on.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U82	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U83	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! My mind revolves around the same question you actually answered right now. Paragraph 121 speaks of the principles of party financing and paragraph 3 of that section competes to some extent with § 5 of the Anti-corruption Act, which talks about the prohibition of the corrupt use of a public instrument and the punishment for its act. Real life shows that this public instrument is used to cover up the time before the election campaign, or that the campaign is carried out not by a specific person, but by advertising something else. Do you think that § 121 of the draft under discussion and this paragraph of the current anti-corruption law will solve the problem we saw in the last election?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U84	I don't know. We can make sure that these violations are condemned or express a clear view that such things are not allowed. This will provide a basis for monitoring the public and each other. As I said before, it is certainly not the solution if we start to lead the political process in a way that is characteristic of the police state, i.e. we foresee a punishment or a police or specialised police of political parties, who will monitor the activities of the parties. Possible infringements should then be dealt with in some way, resolved in court, etc. I don't think that's the way we should go. Rather, it is a question of shaping political culture and behaviour, and it is a long way to go. We try to do as best as we can and can, because we can still do what we agree to do. If you don't agree, it's hard to do something.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U85	Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U86	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Commission. Paragraph 123 contains such an amendment: 'The Board of Directors of the Department shall adopt the procedure for accepting a donation. The procedure for accepting a donation shall be made public on the party's website. ' Can you explain what the purpose of this amendment is, which will improve as a result, and perhaps what the amendment has started from?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U87	The party is a non-profit organisation, like any other non-profit organisation, but the distinction between the parties is that they receive large amounts of state budget resources and also donations. As political parties conduct policies, donations should be as transparent and understandable as possible, as any doubt raises questions and misinterpretations. No one needs it. The procedure for accepting donations would clarify how the party collects donations, how it registers them, etc. This will create greater transparency and comparability between political parties, and hopefully it will also organise this activity, i.e. the acceptance of donations when parties set rules for themselves by self-regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U88	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U89	Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Looking at the draft and recalling the proposals of the people's assembly, I should say that the Commission does not seem to have understood exactly what is expected of us politicians. I think the bill is lean. But I was asked by one of your statements that several countries, such as Germany and a few other European countries, have limited the volume of advertising campaigns, for example, by setting firm rules to avoid the huge impact of money on politics. From what you said, it seemed that the political processes were somehow mismanaged. What's the matter with them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U90	Good questioner, one thing to say is we're setting a firm volume. But can we define exactly what goes under that volume? What kind of activity is included in the volume and who will determine whether the volume has been or has not been respected, which activity has been exceeded? Personally, I don't mind if we can do this, but we need to think rationally about whether we can do this. In my opinion, a bigger problem than that is, in fact, our situation where political parties have become state parties, who receive the bulk of their income from the state budget, and therefore we ourselves vote on the amount of money allocated to political parties as party members. It's like it's not a problem at all, but spending money. So maybe it would make sense to think of other ways to ensure that political parties are financed. Maybe we've screwed up a little bit on the solution so far. For example, the Italian Parliament recently banned public funding for political parties at all. Examples can be given in all sorts of ways, still depending on the political tradition, practice and behaviour of the country in question. Taking one example or another in itself will not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U91	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U92	Thank you. I will continue to ask about the "interplay" between national parties and electoral costs. At present, all political parties in Parliament receive over EUR 1 million in public funding, including the largest political party receiving about 1 and a half million euros. Suppose elections are coming and, for example, the Reform Party gets a relatively good election result and, for example, the Green result of the Party Estonia is below the electoral threshold. How do you assess how much of the election result is due to the fact that the Reform Party has much better ideas and how much is due to the fact that the Reform Party can carry out several million euro electoral campaigns that another party is unable to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U93	After all, party policy is the fight for ideas, the taking of ideas to voters and the persuasion of voters. And if one party can better explain its programme, its views, then it has more voter support. The nature of democratic policy is also that elections are held every four years, and it is not guaranteed that the Reform Party will win them and the Social Democrats will not win, perhaps the opposite will happen. Today we have only talked about the amendments, but the draft itself also contains, as we know, that we are increasing the financing of parties that do not exceed the electoral threshold. If a party collects at least 2% of the votes, it will receive EUR 30000 if it collects between 3% and 4%, then 60000 and, finally, 4-5% will be public support of EUR 100 000. It's quite noticeable, multiple than what it is now. So let's live-see how this thing works, maybe we'll have to change these rules again in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U94	Please, Mr Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U95	Thank you very much. I'll come back to that 4% election threshold. In general, I have the impression that a large part of the coalition thinks that competition in society is a driving force. The more competition, the better we get. Now that there's an idea to increase competition in politics, you're calling it some kind of fragmentation. I do not understand it well that otherwise competition is not a fragmentation of society, but as soon as it invades the party landscape, it is fragmentation and very bad. Why don't you explain it to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U96	A colleague may know that during the first period of Estonia's independence there were 14 political parties in the Riigikogu, and after the restoration of independence there were probably 11 political parties in the first Riigikogu. Meeting them as one coalition and shaping a common policy was a great challenge. During the first period of independence, it ended with the great disappointment of the people in politics, because politicians were unable to agree on their great desire for competition among themselves and a silent era arrived. After the restoration of independence, we also had a very impressive political diversity, and yet it was very quickly realised that political landscapes must be consolidated, that they should be strong political parties with a clear world view. That's where we've come out now, but it turns out it's not good again. That is why we were relatively cautious about bringing down the electoral threshold, because it may also happen that these traditional established parties remain tied and there is also a niche party coming to the Riigikogu. There are now several examples in Europe where the various small niche or radical parties have become weight in policy making. Whether we want a situation where the political landscape depends on the role of the weight language of one or another radical or less radical party is a place of thinking. I'm not saying it's supposed to happen like this, but it's possible. We have to think about it!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U97	Please, colleague Jüri Morozov!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U98	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! In your report you said that it is good to have less political parties represented in the Riigikogu in order to achieve the stability of the Riigikogu's work, and that if there are more, i.e. if the election threshold is brought down, the Riigikogu's work will be unstable. In which one do you see a greater threat to the development of a democratic state and to the preservation and preservation of democracy, is there a stable road roll policy for the majority in the Riigikogu, or is there a large number of political forces represented in the Riigikogu and a democratic parliamentary debate held?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U99	If you ask for my personal preference, I prefer parties in a clear world-view position, because they would ultimately shape a policy that is predictable and predictable. However, if, after all the elections, we have a new composition in Parliament of parties whose world-view position is very difficult to define, it will be extremely difficult at the same time to form a single coalition to implement or secure some kind of policy. This would require negotiations and coordination, which in their time were called cow trades. In parliamentary democracy, this is even possible and has worked, but it involves risks and certainly this great diversity makes Parliament's work less efficient, slower, because it needs to be negotiated, negotiated, negotiated, coordinated, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U100	Please, Mr Indrek Saar, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U101	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, There is another amendment to Article 1 (6) of the draft law before us, on which I would ask for your explanation. As a liberal, you will certainly agree with me that Estonian credit institutions are predominantly professional, function well and can do their job. They do not need to be regulated nationally in any way, and they are able to assess which company, institution or person is able to carry out their finances in a sustainable and non-sustainable manner. So far, it has also applied to political parties, they can ask credit institutions for loans, and if a credit institution thinks they can be granted loans, it will grant them loans. Now we are going to have an amendment here, which says that the limit on the amount of liabilities arising from loan contracts is 25% of the amount allocated to political parties from the state budget. For example, in the case of a party that has exceeded the 3% threshold, this is only about 15,000. What's the limit for? Is the Riigikogu really a wiser decision-maker than the credit institutions of the Republic of Estonia through the dull black and white application of such a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U102	Good questioner, you can't really get credit institutions on their own. They also have banking supervision and rules of play as to what their credit burden may be and how much deficit they may face with their obligations. The same thinking is behind this amendment, too, that political parties should spend a reasonable amount of money, given their real opportunities, so that there is no situation where a party borrows itself and then is in deep trouble with the execution of the loan burden and does not become addicted to 'benefactors'. I understand in this way that this amendment has been negotiated with the parties' finance monitoring committee and the parties' secretaries-general. Whether it is optimal or not, life shows, but the thinking behind it was to keep parties within the framework of sound management.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U103	Please, Mr Allik, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U104	Dear waitress, With regard to your desire to further increase the efficiency of Parliament and the stability of the government coalition, would it not be time to move to a major election system in Estonia? After a while, there will be two parties in this hall and it will be even more stable and effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U105	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U106	Thank you. I understand that this is a bit of an ironic comment. Our constitution provides for the principle of proportionality, so we need to remain in the current system now and ensure that this system functions as efficiently and effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U107	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good chairman of the committee! I am asking about political competition, which was indeed one of the main proposals of the people's assembly. Here, attention has been paid to lowering the electoral threshold, not supported by the Commission, as if it were the only measure to increase political competition. I do not think that there are at least three issues that the draft resolves: reducing the required number of members from 1000 to 500, halving bail and increasing the funding of political parties below the electoral threshold, i.e. not receiving 5% of the votes. Do you agree with me that these are really issues that increase political competition?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U108	Please, Mr Juku-Kalle Raid, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U109	I can only agree with this observation. I could have said that before, but since the bill has been in the process for a long time, I assumed the comrades would have been familiar with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U110	Thanks! Of course, this bill is nice and it is very good that it is even here at second reading. But, at least, I think today's funding system places the major parties in a very privileged position and makes it very difficult, if not impossible, to enter the political landscape of the new parties. I understand it's very convenient for you, for example, but are you sure it's best for us to perpetuate something forever and ever? I, for example, am not sure about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U111	Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U112	Good questioner! Well, first of all, it's not in my interest, I'm not in the next one, and I don't really care about that. But I'm worried about the working capacity of the Riigikogu, it's my duty. We are taking a step towards increasing diversity. It is true that we have been careful to take this step. If within 20 years a rhythm and practice has developed, a radical revolution can have unpredictable consequences. That's why we thought we'd take a step in the desired direction, see what effect it will have, and if it doesn't work, we'll come back to it if we want to.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U113	Thank you. My second question is somewhat broader and does not specifically concern all the amendments to this draft. I ask about all the restrictions and prohibitions that Estonia has placed on political parties. Can you tell us what it's like in other countries in Europe where we position our restrictions and prohibitions? Do we have more or less of them than other countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U114	Thank you. That's a good question, too. I have not done a comparative analysis, I have not had time to do so, but speaking to other politicians from one country or another, it is obvious that the legal regulation of our political parties is far, far deeper and broader than has been the case in other countries. I know more about financing Swedish parties, for example, and they do not understand what I am talking about. They have a gentlemen's agreement that this is how it works, and no one makes it a problem. Exactly how they walk, no one knows it, but that's how they do it. In short, regulation, in terms of our positive law, there is no precise regulation. Each country has its own traditions, and it is my sincere desire to put these regulations in place for a while. Let them settle down, develop certain practices, attitudes and practices. Let's let it all settle down and then maybe adjust again, because right now we're pretty close to regulating things over. After all, the party is an NGO like everyone else. Why, then, do we go as far behind as we can in regulating the financial activities of the parties, and the other NGOs live under relatively soft conditions of regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U115	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U116	After all, this bill has been born in many respects on the basis of proposals made by the Riigikogu. In this regard, I recall an article from the Estonian Daily Paper, where the public assembly was viewed with great prejudice, even seen as a threat to the constitutional order of Estonia and recalled the bronze night. Has the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs developed a similar attitude to the proposals of the Riigikogu in the process of this draft? I ask this on purpose because the author of the article is also standing before us.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U117	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Rait Maruse. Colleagues, I have a request. The Estonian Centre Party Group proposes to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. We need to vote this through. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14.00. Please vote! 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 3 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was backed up, and we're working today until 14:00. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a wish to open negotiations? Please, Mr. Indrek Saar! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U118	The interpretation you were talking about was your interpretation. I am still convinced that the Republic of Estonia is a parliamentary state and that the parliamentary state has its own rules of play. It is fundamentally wrong to treat a democratically and legitimately elected parliament as a body for the undigressed implementation of the decisions of a public assembly. This does not mean that I underestimate those who have worked sincerely in the congregation, but that is not the principle approach. Parliament has and has the sovereign right to make proposals when they are raised before it, to evaluate, to consider and to make a different decision. Certainly, the people's assembly gave a positive impulse to look at this set of problems again, to make adjustments there, but I am far from the idea that Parliament would be an executive body of the people's assembly, as I once expressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U119	I'm asking everyone to make sure there's eight minutes left! Please, my colleague Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U120	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U121	... thousands of people who have taken part in the drafting of this bill in Estonian society in one way or another! Unfortunately, as my colleague Eiki Nestor said on his question, the majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has still not fully understood what society asked for in various forms, whether it is the body of people, which the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has indeed compared with the bronze night in the paper, or other debates, debates, and the expression of opinions. If you look at this bill, there are still some nice things here. First of all, I am pleased that colleagues managed to convince us that the permanent residents of the Republic of Estonia, those who may have lived in Estonia all their lives and participate in local elections, have reason to expect at least as much interest in Estonian politics as the millions who live in Latvia, France, Bulgaria, Cyprus and other countries of the European Union and are citizens of these countries. The fact that we do not, however, deprive residents of the right to make donations to political parties is certainly positive. The other side, which concerns that all citizens of the European Union can begin to donate to our political parties, will certainly tell us some funny or slightly sadder stories in the future. But let's see what happens to this practice, where citizens of 28 countries can make donations to Estonian political parties. It is certainly positive to reduce the restrictions on the establishment of political parties already mentioned here from 1000 to 500 members and to double the bail-in on elections, all of which have also been the proposals of the Social Democrats. If we come to public funding, then the political parties who receive 2 to 5% of the votes really do have some growth, and since it is growing several times, the coalition in particular, of course, has said that we have made a very big change and are generous. However, if you go into the substance of the matter, of the almost EUR 5.5 million that are allocated to political parties from the state budget, it will, in a good case, amount to 2 to 3%. Very much, to be honest with you, the competitive situation as a result of this redistribution of 2 to 3% will not change if the remaining parties, now four, take away 97 to 98% of the money and thus make large-scale electoral campaigns. The Social Democrats have tabled their amendment, and I hope that everyone who comes to the Chamber will have reason to vote in favour of sharing already in the proportions mentioned above: 50% among all political parties elected to Parliament and 50% among all political parties who took part in the elections, depending on the number of votes cast, with a party that has collected at least 1% of the votes still receiving EUR 10 000. The Social Democrats also proposed, interestingly in line with the people's assembly, to limit electoral costs. In Estonian society, it has been very clear that election results depend too much on financial contributions. The correlation is calculated here at 0.9, i.e. the one sitting here in the Riigikogu will depend on 90% of the amount of money spent. A number of opinions have been expressed on this matter, including a summary by the public assembly, that there should be a limitation on electoral costs. It is also possible to vote in favour of the Socialist Amendment here, and I hope that this will be done, because otherwise competition will not increase. Unfortunately, this draft does not reflect the Riigikogu's proposal to prohibit members of the Riigikogu from belonging to the council of state-owned companies. As we know, it is the view of the Reform Party that it should not be banned, and while the rest were in favour of the proposal, they vetoed it. There are some other things in the bill that should definitely be pointed out. When it was said here that political diversity could increase a little against the background of this bill, I would draw your attention to some nuances. For example, the same amendment that I asked about earlier, which says that the limit on the amount of liabilities arising from loan contracts is 25% of the amount allocated to political parties from the state budget. This means that those parties who, by means of a loan agreement, would have liked to equalize the amount of their campaign resources with those of others, as small parties have so far often done so as to maintain a certain amount of campaigning in order to maintain a certain degree of image against those who put a million or two million euros in the campaign, will significantly limit this possibility. In reality, it limits political competition to what the potential impact of this is. Similarly, point 18, which states that, in order to carry out its duties under paragraphs 1 and 11, the committee on the supervision of the financing of political parties shall be entitled to require a special audit by a political party, an electoral association and an individual candidate. If the audit is going to review a party that has received 2 to 3% support and has waited four years for its next opportunity, this party is unlikely to have contributed much money to keep its accounts in good order. Larger competitors have an excellent opportunity to send an auditor and say: 'You see, we said that these small parties have financial matters in order! '. I would like to remind you that in the committee on the monitoring of political party funding, there are four votes for competitors and only three experts from constitutional institutions. These experts also came to the Commission with the latest legislative amendment in 2010, after the Social Democrats had been debating the matter with the rest for a long time. The committee on the supervision of political party funding has certainly sent very good people at the moment. However, if the small parties are to turn off the tap, there is an excellent mechanism to enable it to be done through the monitoring committee and the "holy event" for the funding of the parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U122	Quiet now, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U123	Finally, I call on you to support the Socialist amendments and I regret that political diversity, unfortunately, does not increase much with this bill. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U124	Ladies and gentlemen, There is a bill before us, for which I would certainly like to thank them...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U125	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Eight minutes, just in case, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U126	As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I have been at the process of party law amendments since the beginning, and this beginning goes back to the time before the draft is actually submitted, when society already crystallised the notion that something is wrong with our party system and its funding. I was in this process, to be more precise, until last Monday, when I was disqualified, how to say, from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to ensure that 'right voters' are overstated. A few words about party law and Estonian party law in general. There is no holistic approach here, in my opinion, because, for years now, party law has been shaped by interests, not by a systematic understanding. The current party law as a whole resembles one much patchwork, and these changes make this deck even more clear. Some ladies and gentlemen have accused me of using a concept that they have found derogatory. This term is either cartel parties or a party cartel. I have thus celebrated a situation where our political party landscape is frozen because of the national super-financing of four parliamentary parties, and the entry barrier to the policies of new forces and new people is unreasonably high. Political parties have acquired a status in Estonia to which other civil society organisations cannot reach. With this, political parties have torn away from ordinary NGOs, both in terms of funding and status. Let me point out, however, that the concept of a cartel party is not Herkel's fiction. Nor is it Tõnis Saarts' fiction, which I know was the first to use in Estonian public discourse. No, the concept of cartel party has been used in political science for more than 20 years, and it is not directly estimated. In the same way, the cartel of the party landscape is not just Estonia's problem. However, this problem has gone further in Estonia than in other Eastern European countries. It's gone too far. I've written more about it in Sirp's newspaper on July 25th before this newspaper became famous. That's what people who are smarter than me in political science have written about. But now for the substance of the bill. Will the funding of political parties be fairer with this bill? Will the forced killing of so-called small parties end? Here are some positive elements of a half-off of bail and slightly greater support for political parties below the threshold compared to the current one, but I agree with the previous speaker that this will not bring about a fundamental change. In the end, it's more of a coffin money, not a real right to life. Estonia's proportional electoral system is in itself very Scandinavian, very Nordic. But say one Scandinavian country where the number of parliamentary parties has reached four in this electoral system. Only we live under the sign of impoverishment, and the draft we are discussing largely confirms that there will be four cartel parties or state parties in Estonia until the end of the ages if this concept seems more oral. I actually liked that the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs used it to answer this remote question. Consequently, the nature of the problem is understood. In order to achieve fairer competition, I call for support for myself and for Juku-Kalle Raidi, as well as for the Social Democrats' amendments, which ensure more equal funding, lower the electoral threshold and lower the limit for members (the only proposal that went through the committee) to form a political party. Estonia needs open competition, not a closed system. When we talk about this in the economy, why, God forbid, shouldn't we talk about this in shaping our political system. I will stop at a few more details that have been added to the draft at the last Commission meeting, which I no longer was able to attend. I am thinking of the same transfer of party reporting to the quarterly rhythm and of the consolidation of expenditure reporting, which opens up general volumes instead of individual advertising transactions, for example, and divides them into headings: advertising, public relations, etc. I understand that there is no significant difference here for the committee on the supervision of political party funding, which is what can be done, so it is easier, it is more rational, and the Commission can demand the entire data set if necessary. Perhaps only the curiosity of the press is less satisfied. However, this amendment does seem to be a strange contradiction to this question I also referred to the chairman of the committee with a decision made in the Riigikogu a week ago, which makes the data submitted by companies to the tax administration much more detailed. This raises the question of whether the aim is to make the lives of political parties easier and businesses more difficult. These things aren't in sync right now. I'm sure that's not the sensible signal we're giving. Ladies and gentlemen, I may not have been able to defend all my views with sufficient consistency over the years, but if I open the Parliament's verbatim from December 2003, exactly one day less than ten years ago, when the important changes in party law made by the leadership of Res Publica were discussed, and to compare my speech at that time, which I gave on behalf of the Group of the Pro Patria Union, with today, then I am actually speaking the same thing, conveying the same message. This message is: let us not monopolise the political landscape; it can cost Estonia very much! There are people who, as they once said, stoic calmly sway with a party line. I've stuck to my line right now, but the party's gotten out of the way somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U127	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U128	Thank you. Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U129	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll take eight minutes. In the second reading of the draft law, it can be said militaryly that let me speak freely; the second reading is this place. By listening to today's debate and based on Estonia's overall democratic situation, it is clear that there is concern in society about the monopolisation of political power. It seems that four parliamentary parties are doing something very criminal and that the world is about to collapse. I confess honestly and directly to you that I have had the extraordinary honour of being politically identified as a member of the Centre Party, but also communicating with normal people as a citizen and as a human being, to being with about three groups who have all tried to make a new party. I can even count them. Some were freemen and activists of Occupy Wall Street, or ACTA activists, who were absolutely convinced that they would make a new party. I have also had some visits to the meetings of the Free Patriotic Citizen and, as a neutral person, talked about the economy in particular. I was completely shocked when I praised Mart Laari, the first Prime Minister of Estonia's independence, and said that it was still right to carry out the land reform, because it restored justice, and on this occasion a voice from among the people announced that it would praise Laari, he broke our collective farms. Then I was really scared. The third attempt was when we tried to save the People's Union together with the entrepreneurs of good friends. The idea was noble for us to make business clubs in the municipalities and take over all the municipalities in the local elections. Why has nothing become of these three, except the Free Fatherland Citizen, who is relatively likely to become political forces (I am keeping my fingers crossed)? People's allies I see mostly among the social democrats and somewhere in very conservative men. Dear people, the problem is not really that there is no democracy in Estonia. The problem is, people get into a fight in the second month because of the list, who's the chairman of the party, who's the other guy, who's the third guy. If they've gotten into a fight with each other because nobody really wants to do a job, but in the top ten of the list, it's easy to start looking for reasons why democracy doesn't work in Estonia. It is said that there is no money that, at all, parliamentary parties have monopolised democracy as a whole. There are a variety of strange experiments, there are always culprits, and then they say that there are too many 1000 members. In a party with even 13,000 members, there are, in fact, 1,000 active people who understand what is happening around here. Even if we have 100 active people, the remaining 400 so-called weather supporters, i.e. a hundred people will find their way into a normal political community. The people showed it best: 500 people were invited and a little over 300 came. It is a classic example that democracy is the arrangement of the few chosen who really think about it. To look infinitely for those responsible for all of this, how nothing can be done, is, to put it mildly, wrong. As a result, I think that the things that are currently being dealt with in the Riigikogu are all very right, but with sadness it must be said that none of these measures want to increase democracy in any way and cannot increase democracy with them. The increase in democracy does not take place with laws, money or any kind of relief that we can bring to absurdity. By the example of the Centre Party, it is nice to say that we are looking at the other parties represented in the Riigikogu, that no one has come to us from there, but the warlocks have been led by the Centre Party, the Reform Party has recently received a powerful addition from us, not by far from the Riigikogu, but it has received a very good addition from us to the Tallinn City Council. And at the moment when Vilja Savisaar entered the Reform Party, who has said from this very remote control that the plague is worse than Andrus Ansip, I had an inner lucidity. I went to Edgar Savisaar and said, "Edgar Savisaar, when I've been your opponent so far, I haven't been happy with your decisions from time to time, and I didn't like that Meelis Pai pulled up that cellular plastic thing, then now, Edgar, I'm your man, if you need to send someone to the front, you can send me. ' Now this is the funniest situation in Estonian politics. It is not a question of substance, it is a question of individuals and it is a question of people's disappointment, of persons' inability to carry themselves out within the party itself, of being purposeful, of finding themselves a subject, of fighting, of doing their thing. And if it all goes down for us, we like to start blaming again that there is no money, no opportunities and the thresholds are too high. Finally, those people who are thinking about something party-oriented could ask the parliamentary parties: but why are we not supported by the people? Is this the fault of the Constitutional Commission led by Rait Maruste? There's another funny story that I remember when I look into this subject more broadly. After Jaan Männik had resigned as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, in the first public appearance after that he said he would make a new party. The host asked if he had anyone planned for it. 'No, there's no one else but me,' was the answer. Don't you think it's a wrong start? First, look for fellow thoughters. If you're a respected person, I'm sure you have a position in society. So why don't you connect a bunch of thought mates around you and actually try to do the job? I admit honestly and frankly that if the secretaries-general of any party should leave this world and I am still alive, I will certainly bring a very large wreath to their grave. This job they do every day is, by the way, a job they don't want to do, even the worst cattle dog, because it's not an easy job, it's a very disgusting job. That is why I want to say to all those who are discouraged, especially those who have left the Centre Party, that it is not a question of law, it is not a question of how many people form a party, it is not a question of how many euros you have in your pocket. The question is whether you will burn for this country or not, because if you burn, you will do the job. So far, I've only seen this burning in the Central Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U130	Thank you very much. After this speech, there is no one who would like to speak yet, so I will conclude the negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. There are 11 amendments to the draft law. The first has been presented by Mr Juku-Kalle Raid and the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has taken full account. The second has been submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, taking full account. The third has been presented by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has partially taken into account. The fourth is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, fully taken into account. The fifth is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been disregarded. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U131	Thank you. I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U132	I'd love to. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 5 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Governing Commission has disregarded the proposal. Please vote! 19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 43 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 6 has been tabled by Mr Raid and Mr Herkel. The Governing Commission has disregarded the proposal. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U133	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U134	Colleagues, I shall put to the vote Amendment 6, tabled by colleagues Juku-Kalle Raid and Andres Herkel. The Governing Commission has disregarded the proposal. Please vote! 19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 7 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the lead committee has failed. Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U135	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U136	Colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 7 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The lead committee has not taken the proposal into account. Please vote! 19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 41 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 8 has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 9 has been tabled by Mr Raid and Mr Herkel. The Governing Commission has disregarded the proposal. Only the representatives of the group can ask for the amendments to be voted on. I'm sorry, the proposer too! Please, my colleague Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U137	Thank you, Madam President. I was afraid of the worst. I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U138	The Social Democrats would have helped you anyway, so the worst wouldn't have come. I'm sorry I made such a mistake! I shall put to the vote Amendment 9, tabled by Mr Raid and Mr Herkel. The Governing Commission has disregarded the proposal. Please vote! 19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 42 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 10 has been tabled by Mr Raid and Mr Herkel. The Governing Commission has disregarded the proposal. Please, my colleague Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U139	Thank you. Please vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U140	I shall put to the vote Amendment 10 tabled by Mr Raid and Mr Herkel. The Governing Commission has disregarded the proposal. Please vote! 19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 39 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The last amendment, Amendment 19, has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of it. Colleagues, we have examined all the amendments. This means that the second reading of Bill 439 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U141	The next item is the first reading of the letter of formal notice and the reply to the request for clarification initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu. Mr Rait Maruste, colleague of the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would like to make a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The people's assembly gave the initial impetus to the preparation of this bill. The analysis of the problem raiser showed that we have a procedure for responding to the approach of individuals governed by legislation, and the referendum is regulated through the referendum law as such, but there is no interlinking, or group proposal and procedure, so-called collective appeal or petition regulation. This procedure is familiar to European democracy. The European Union accepts and uses the form of a petition for a citizens' initiative, which provides that at least 1 million signatures need to be collected to present a citizens' initiative and that the signatories must come from at least 1/4 of all Member States. The right of petition is accepted by the European Parliament and is also provided for, for example, in Article 17 of the German Constitution, which states that everyone has the right to address written requests and complaints to the competent authorities and the national representation individually or collectively. A study carried out in the Bundestag shows that there is a system of petitions to Parliament in some form in 29 European countries. In twenty countries, people can appeal directly to Parliament, and this is mostly the case in the old, developed democracies. According to the European Parliament, the system of petitions to Parliament in the countries of the European Union has not been introduced in Cyprus, Malta and Sweden. No data were available for Bulgaria at the time of the study. According to this draft, which we are trying to promote here, collective appeal is understood as a collective appeal to amend the current regulation by means of a popular initiative or to better organise the life of the society by submitting proposals to the Riigikogu, the implementation of which falls within the competence of the Riigikogu. The draft provides for specific requirements to be met by collective redress. The first requirement is that at least a thousand supporting signatures need to be collected in order to submit a request. The second requirement is that there must be a specific proposal for amending the existing regulation or better organisation of society, accompanied by a three-page justification for the need to change the current situation. It is important that the proposal does not remain at the level of a slogan, but that the current situation is analysed and pointed out what, in what way and what needs to be changed and what effects to produce. The request shall be accompanied by an electronic list of the persons who have signed the grant, indicating the person's name and personal identification code. The list is necessary to verify, by means of the Population Register, whether the person who has signed is in existence and is entitled to sign the list just because he or she is of the required age and is a permanent resident. Support signatures may be collected both on paper and electronically, i.e. the grant signatures may be in full on paper and in electronic form. The signature to be collected on the paper shall be accompanied by the name and personal identification code of the signatory, and the digital signature law shall apply to the signatures to be collected electronically so that the digital signature giver can be identified by means of a personal identification code. Support signatures can be granted by all permanent residents of Estonia who have reached the age of 16. As a permanent resident, this proposal covers an Estonian citizen residing in Estonia and a citizen of the European Union residing in Estonia who has a permanent right of residence, or an alien residing in Estonia who holds a long-term resident's residence permit. This circle is slightly wider than in the case of electoral rights, in order to give people the opportunity to come before the legislator with their observations and proposals. Verification of compliance with these formal requirements should be conducted by the Riigikogu, which sends the petition to the population register to check the signatures. If the formalities for both signatures and content are fulfilled, the Board of the Riigikogu will forward the petition to the relevant committee, which will have to take a position on what to do with this referral either to agree to it and to initiate a draft regulation in some areas, to accept it in part, to make some kind of correction or to reject it. In the latter case, the Commission must state the reasons why it rejects the proposal. In short, this proposal is procedurally binding on Parliament, not in substance. In the future, we will see how this proposal goes. We've had platforms of this kind before, like TOM, today I'm deciding what worked for a while, but then it went down. The hope is that this system will work and people will have a greater right of say, but it is also possible that it will not work. I don't know. Is a thousand supporting signatures much or little? We discussed it. It's a matter of recognition. We found that should be the optimal size. However, if, in the course of the procedure, colleagues find that this limit is too high or, on the contrary, too small, we will discuss it again and find a reasonable solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U143	Thank you very much, Mr Rait Maruse. There are questions. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U144	Thank you. Good colleague! Can you comment on how you decided in the committee that the age is 16 years when the local government and the council are able to participate actively at the age of 18? It would be good if you could comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U145	Yes, we had this discussion in the Commission. The reason behind this is that young people today mature faster and have a number of areas of social life that directly affect them, in which they are involved. Why, then, give the right to make proposals only to adults, people with the right to vote, and leave young people who have an active attitude, who would like to convey a message of some kind, even out of the way of making a proposal? That is why we could expand the circle of proposals and give young people an opportunity. There are a number of educational issues, perhaps other issues that matter to them, and they must be able to participate in them. Once again, it is not binding on the Riigikogu in terms of content. The Riigikogu must procedurally take this problem on the table, analyse it and either agree or whatever the Riigikogu commission decides to do. However, we should give young people the opportunity to engage.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U146	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U147	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable waitress! You have already said in the final statement that you are willing to consider this rate, whether the 1000 is right or whether it should be smaller or higher. But if, in the law discussed earlier, we have stipulated that 500 members are needed to form a political party, then from this logic, perhaps you could consider 500 here too, because it is quite a force. For example, the work of the Social Affairs Committee in practice is that if one person writes to us and has a good idea, then the Commission will always discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U148	Yes, you are right that citizens still have the opportunity to send letters, and we also receive letters every day in the Commission. But here is a little bit further about the fact that collective petition should describe a bigger problem, analyse three pages why the existing regulation does not satisfy, what is being requested and what should be done for it. It's like a more organized and organized proposal. Whether this number is now 500, 1000 or 5000 we are discussing it, I am completely open to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U149	Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U150	Thank you. Dear waitress, It seems to me that one part of this law, which concerns the collection of signatures, is quite strong and quite nice, but the decision in committee seems to be the weaker part of this bill. How thoroughly is this proposal, which generally protests against any existing regime, otherwise it would not be possible to collect signatures, discussed and what does the procedure look like? Or do they vote it off at the first meeting, and then this whole bright idea is gonna be dead soon?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U151	We do not know exactly how the committees behave. The situation is, after all, that there is no such form at all. If signatures are to be collected in order to organise or regulate a particular area, they will be given a certain level of public coverage and the Commission will be obliged to discuss the proposal. If it does not accept the proposal, it must explain why it rejects it. After all, we have a variety of engagement practices and so on. When it comes to the debate in the Commission, I believe that the Commission has so much political and statesmanly thinking that the debate is also called upon by the proposers or opposers. In short, the public will be involved and the problem will be discussed in a broad way. However, the right of petition is regulated in most countries in such a way that it cannot automatically lead to legal consequences. Otherwise, it would be a public initiative, but that is another matter. And we have a public initiative that is regulated separately, a constitutional procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U152	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Rait Maruse. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? Please, Mr Toobal, as representative of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U153	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu has initiated legislative amendments which, when they enter into force, give the people the right to submit collective proposals to the Riigikogu. The proposal put forward correctly to discuss a matter, to initiate or amend laws, places it on the Commission's agenda and, if the Commission supports it, to put it on the plenary agenda and to start the procedure. I would like to remind you that in the spring of this year, the Riigikogu had the same debate when it discussed the possibility of a popular initiative initiated by the Central Party Group. The coalition parties then voted this idea down, but I am pleased that it has now been returned and, in a sense, that the idea of a popular initiative is being legitimised. The initiative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Centre Party's draft are different in their detail, but still have the same purpose. If the Centre Party Group wanted the right of citizens to initiate draft laws in order to give it even more weight, the current draft provides for the amendment of the Act on replying to the letter of formal notice and the request for clarification and the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. I cannot say that we would be completely satisfied with this solution, because the management and committees of the Riigikogu still have a great opportunity to block the initiative. The 1000 signatures required for the initiative should also be discussed. The draft proposed by the Centre Party offered a signature requirement of 25 000, in order to ensure that citizens' initiatives, which are both substantive and have a strong voice in society, reached Parliament. If there is a large number of drafts launched under the popular initiative due to the requirement for too little signatures, there may be a risk that the idea that the people can bring a subject of great interest to Parliament for discussion will be devalued. Since the proposals that were supported by the population included the possibility of a public initiative, this draft is rightly addressed with a slightly greater focus on society. The most important outputs for allowing a public initiative are the opportunity for citizens to raise the problem and to initiate a bill in the conditional term, regardless of the parties represented in the Riigikogu's participation in this initiative. At the same time, it could alleviate the "policy drive" and stimulate civil society activities. That is why we are also in favour of the idea that the collection of grant signatures should be carried out on its own initiative rather than through national polling stations, as practiced in some countries. To a certain extent, the popular initiative in Estonian political culture already exists at the level of local governments, where, according to the Local Government Organisation Act, at least 1% of rural and urban residents with a voting right have the right to take initiatives on local life issues that are to be discussed. The same is true of the institutions of the European Union, where a million signatures must be collected for the public initiative. It is important to note that the 1920 Constitution allowed 25000 citizens with a right to vote to submit a draft to the Riigikogu on the basis of a public initiative. So this is not a novel approach, either in Estonian or European terms, and the introduction of this principle into the law does not significantly change the political image of the country. Although the Centre Party Group would have preferred the possibility of writing the People's Initiative into the Constitution, we are also prepared to support the solution developed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The main thing is that the draft, which reached the Riigikogu by means of a popular initiative, obliges the MPs to take this very seriously. It is also difficult for power parties to leave it in a drawer. Enabling a people's initiative will help improve our political culture and perhaps bring people a little closer to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U154	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 518 amendments at 16 a.m. on 10 January 2014. First reading of Bill 518 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U155	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending § 16 of the Road Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. For a presentation, please, colleague of Riigikogu member Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U156	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, I have the honour to present the draft law amending § 16 of the Road Act, initiated by the Centre Party Group in September. This is a very good draft that would solve the problem of underfunding local roads, which has been going on for years. The aim of the draft is to improve the situation on local roads. The legislative amendment gives local authorities the assurance that the share of road maintenance equipment received by local authorities will be increased in the national budgets of the following years. The draft provides that in 2014, at least 15% of the fuel excise duty will be allocated to local authorities, 20% in 2015, 25% in 2016 and 30% from 2017. As a former head of self-government, I dare say that local roads are holed up primarily because of systematic underfunding. The opponents try to correct this statement by arguing that local governments are not using the money properly and that, therefore, the roads of very many municipalities are reminiscent of the battlefield in spring. The real reason is clear underfunding, with so little money it is not possible to keep you running in our climate. The maintenance of local roads is an important task for the municipality, which is required of the municipality and the city by the Local Government Organisation Act and Tea Act. Unfortunately, the municipality can do this if the law provides for funding. The Road Act in force until 1 March 2009 stipulated that at least 10% of the amount earmarked for road maintenance in the state budget would be allocated to investments in local roads. Paragraph 16 (3) of the Road Act was also amended by the Act amending the State's additional budget and related laws in 2009 and the requirement that at least 10% of the amount earmarked for the financing of road maintenance in the state budget for investments on local roads was abolished. Of course, the State took advantage of the opportunity given by the amendment in relation to the municipalities and allocated less than 10% of the funds for investment in local roads in the four following years from excise duty on fuel. In 2010, 4.9% of the fuel excise duty was allocated to municipalities, 4.8% in 2011, 6.5% in 2012 and 9.7% in 2013. Between 2010 and 2013, an average of 6,5% of the amount provided for in § 16 of the Road Act was allocated to local roads. It's abnormally low! We also consider that the last winters have been quite snowy, so many municipalities have had all the free money for winter road maintenance. The 2011 Road Technology Centre study showed that the cumulative underfunding of local roads is around 300 million. As a result, the road cover of the main Estonian roads is on average 13 years old, the cover of the main roads is on average 25 years old and the cover of secondary roads and local roads is over 30 years old. It's a clear warning sign. The existence and quality of road infrastructure are essential both for citizens' mobility and for businesses' transport of production and raw materials. We have also requested the opinion of Estonian local government leaders when drafting this draft. We received 31 responses and none of them have written that local road funding is sufficient and the situation is satisfactory. I'm gonna give you a little bit of an overview of these answers. The assistant mayor of the second largest city of Estonia replied to us this way: 'The funds allocated to local roads from excise duties have never fully covered the resources spent on road maintenance from our city budget. This year, we have received EUR 0.97 million from the state, which covers only 9.3% of the resources spent on road maintenance. Unfortunately, the urban budget does not allow the necessary funds to be invested in road repairs, which has resulted in a clear backwardness in the repair work compared to the repair needs. This is reflected in decomposed street coverings and in the transport infrastructure necessary for the development of the city, but not built. The reduction in the funds allocated from excise duties on fuel has exacerbated the road situation in our city. " In his reply, the man responsible for the roads of a city of 17,000 people honestly admitted that the current money would only be enough to cover old covers, but this method would only prolong the life span of the road by five to six years. They have also patched up coatings with a mixture of bitumen and chippings, but this is only an annual ambulance repair and only inhibits the total depreciation of the coating. An elder in a rural municipality of 1500 people wrote the following lines: "The reduction of state budget resources on local roads has led to a progressive deterioration in the state of roads and streets. The situation has also been aggravated by snowy winters in recent years, and the funds for road investment simply do not go on. However, I do not consider it appropriate to cover road investments with loan money or a revenue base for secondary areas. In South Estonia, with thousands of inhabitants, choices have been made and not all local roads are kept in order, because there is no money. The parent of the same small rural municipality was even more specific in his statements: 'The road situation is SOS because the gravel has not seen the road for years. We Greider once a year what's left of us. The main part of the money allocated to the state budget goes to snowflying, then some tea toy, and that's all we can do. It is quite depressing that scarce funding for local roads from the current excise duty will be further reduced in the coming year. Where else can I go? Infrastructure in rural areas is one of the most important issues. ' In between, I'll tell you an interesting news from today, where the city of Viljandi stopped maintaining two sections of the road in the winter, due to a lack of money. There were signs that you weren't being cared for. So should all the municipalities get to it? If funding continues in this way, I think this case will not be an exception. A summary of the feedback from the local government leaders will conclude with the assessment of the situation of one of the rural municipality elders in Estonia: 'The reduction of the funding of roads and the write-down of a once-defined percentage of the law once again clearly shows that municipalities must be able to do all kinds of things without money. The volume of our roads is not great, but with the small amount that is allocated to us to ensure our mobility, we can still renew the plentiful gravel covers, make the gravel roads chafing during the summer. The only problem is that some sections of the road aren't allowed to plan anymore because only black soil is looking back. There is also a kilometer of black - covered roads in the municipality's soulwriting that are falling apart more and more quickly. In order to renew it, the budget allocation should be at least 2-3 times today. In this respect, we would also note that winter road maintenance is only done with our own budgetary resources. I think it is right and I support the legislative amendment that has been initiated to increase the funding of local roads. ' This is a serious problem and I am pleased that last week the Special Committee on State Budget Control held a discussion on this issue in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. This problem is not just the problem of the authorities that are in opposition, it is actually the problem of all the authorities and it should be seen as a single one. According to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, it is the responsibility of local authorities to maintain local roads and this work should be financed from the local budget as a whole; the state would only have the possibility to support local authorities in covering road maintenance costs if it were interested. The minister should probably review the new tea law. Paragraph 16 (3) of the Road Act states very clearly: 'The distribution of funds for the storage of state roads and the storage of local roads is determined for each financial year in the state budget. " Local authorities need to be assured that they have a specific allocation for the maintenance of roads for each financial year. I would point out here that in 2009 the share of income tax allocated to the local government was also reduced to 11,4%, thereby amplifying the impact of the already declining budgetary revenue as a result of the economic downturn. In addition to reducing the fiscal revenue generated by the economic downturn, the decision to cut income tax and the compensatory fund in 2009-2012 has reduced the share of EUR 190 million earmarked for local living. As a result, local governments are unable to increase the funding of road maintenance from their own revenues. Also, external resources for local roads have been highly unstable and will be significantly reduced in the coming years. While this year the amount of external funds allocated to municipalities was slightly above 30 million euros, it will fall to 15 million euros in 2014 and to 10 million euros in 2015. Moreover, it must be taken into account that the Structural Funds are intended to reduce the gap in Estonian infrastructure compared to the other European Union, not to patch up the budget gaps created by the state. The current distribution of road savings between the state and local authorities is neither logical nor fair. I am quoting once again from Haldo Orava, an elder in the municipality of Viimsi, who has said: 'The holes in the streets of Tallinn and other local governments are not the fault, roads and streets of the city of Tallinn and other local governments because, according to the government's decision, only 10% of the amount set aside for the maintenance of roads in the state budget should go to local roads and streets. " As we can see from the last quote, it is a concern of all local governments, regardless of their political affiliation. This draft foresees that next year, the share of money from excise duties on fuel for road storage will increase by 5% per year for local road storage until it has been achieved that 30% will be used for this purpose. Please support this good bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U157	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I think it should be clear to everyone that local roads have been underfunded, and that is why I certainly support your initiative today with my voting button. My question concerns you in Southeast Estonia. It is known that for quite a number of years, additional equipment has been allocated to South-East Estonia for the maintenance and repair of roads. What result has it produced and, in the context of this draft, can it be said that if the amount of money is higher, the results will also be more effective than they are now in many Estonian municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U159	Thank you for your question. The separate programme allocates money for road maintenance to the Setumaa Association of Municipalities, and it must be acknowledged that this money has also served its purpose. The share of gravel roads has decreased in the rural municipalities of Setumaa, with fewer dusty roads. I must also say that the state has invested very much in side roads. There, the share of gravel roads has decreased significantly, and many of the centres and villages have become dust-free. When it comes to the nature of the problem, it is as if the state still has the resources, as it turned out yesterday in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, where representatives of the Road Administration were reporting. However, the sad nature of the matter is that less than 50% of all excise duties on fuel collected in Estonia go to roads. The remaining 50% of the money supports the recovery of other expenditures in the state budget, which is abnormal. After all, this tax is a targeted tax paid by drivers to keep Estonia in order, but the money does not reach its goal. One could then increase the part that is directed to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U160	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U161	Good manager! Good waitress! I am pleased that you have brought such an important subject into this Chamber of the Riigikogu. There is one minor mistake in the draft in the sense that the state budget for next year has already been adopted, and hardly 15% of it can be put back into the next year. But I have a completely different question for you. What do you think, as a former local government manager, should we restore the tax base allocated to local governments, or do we need to increase the percentage of excise duty money? Which way would it be better to solve this problem, because the wallet you take out of your pocket is one? Which would be more useful to the municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U162	Thank you, Aivar, for a good question. As a former governor of the country, you certainly know these problems better than some other colleagues. Let me put it this way. It's actually necessary to restore both of them. The fact that the overall revenue base has decreased also shows that there are still many things left for municipalities to do in addition to repair roads. Let's just take the wages of all the local government employees, and so on. The problem is that during this period the local government's income base decreased by 190 million euros, and this has created a huge hole. How can this be accomplished? I did expect the local government to recover even 0.1% of the tax base withdrawn each year and the share of excise fuel will move forward from 10% to 3%. It would have led to some sort of logical solution. Ultimately, both needs to be increased. This would give the local government a fortress. How can local authorities plan anything now? It is not possible to plan, because the total amount of road money depends on the amount of money that the Minister will sign. Our goal is that it should be in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U163	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When we discussed the same subject last week in this large Chamber, the rapporteurs also mentioned the road register as one of the main issues, and in particular the section on local authorities' roads. The audit of the National Audit Office reveals clear errors in the fact that the registration data and the local government's road data differ. How familiar are you, as the initiator of the draft law under discussion, with this issue? Do you support a single road register as the basis for a clearer allocation and allocation of funds? Then we would know whether there is a need-based distribution of both national routes and local roads.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U165	Thank you. Thank you for the very meaningful report you made on the state of the roads in this Chamber of the Riigikogu! Of course, the register is important, and I can tell you that the local authorities are interested that the road register is in place and the length of the roads is in place, because in fact, this small amount of money is divided by a road kilometre. So local authorities will try to register you every little opportunity and thus increase their share of road excise duty. The interest of local governments certainly exists here, but I say that interest would be greater if the funding were stable and would give the possibility to deal with the road register in depth, because it also costs a lot. But the direction in itself is right, we need to know where the money goes and on what basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U166	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U167	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Of course, this bill, which you are defending now on behalf of the group, is, in our opinion, realistic and constructive. Now let's take the destructive part. As a leader of a municipality with great experience, can you tell us how many roads we will still have problems with how many cities have signs such as those that are currently in Viljandi if this amount does not increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U168	Thank you. I said that this trend is getting worse, that the municipalities simply cannot carry out this task. It makes me particularly sad that when I travel from Tallinn to Tartu, for example, the state-owned highway between Tallinn and Tartu is in pretty good condition, at least in covering terms, but the streets of Tallinn and Tartu, the two largest cities in Estonia, are not subject to criticism. And it's not the people who run these cities, fortunately, they're also run by mayors of different political parties. This problem is very deep. Studies have also been carried out. According to the Road Administration, according to a study carried out on the Järvevana road, traffic intensity is 5-6 times higher there than on the Tallinn road, for example. This shows once again that the money deficit is greater than we think at first.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U169	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U170	Good manager! Good waitress! I've noticed one thing in this hall. We are always discussing where to get more revenue, but both in the debate on the state budget and in all other matters, we forget that we really need to see if there is a way to save costs. This trend has deepened year after year. An additional payment will be made and do not know what else to cover certain costs, but we will not see how to reduce costs. How are you gonna look at this? Today, too, there were several talks about cities in your presentation, but if I remember correctly, the excise duty did not come on the roads of the cities until this century. In the first half of re-intra-independence, the so-called tea money was received only by local governments, municipalities, but not by cities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U171	Thank you. There's actually a very specific source of cover here. We all pay excise duties on fuel when we drive around Estonia or fuel fuel in Estonia. This money is coming to our state budget. Sadly, though, less than 50% of the fuel excise collected goes to roads. That's the source of the cover. Fuel excise duty could in this sense begin to fulfil its objective of repairing roads, maintaining them, etc. According to the law, 25% of excise duties on fuel may cover other national budget expenditures, but the remaining 25% will also go to the state budget to cover other expenditures. In fact, there is a source of cover, and it is a purposeful source of cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U172	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U173	Thank you. Dear waitress, As a person with the experience of a great local government leader, you're talking about the right thing. I'm sure the roads and the streets are our baby of pain. But it has always been the case that, regardless of whether the state has dedicated funds for roads and streets, municipalities still put money in their wallets, otherwise they would probably not be able to drive and operate at all. But I ask you, as the former mayor, a hypothetical but actually quite practical question: if you had a choice, whether to allocate money from the municipality's wallet to the maintenance of roads and streets or to free public transport, which would you prefer?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U174	Thanks, Peep! Public transport is also linked to the situation of roads at the end of the day. The more people use public transport, the less they spend on the streets of the city. So maybe free public transport is caused by the fact that we would rather take the bus and not increase the burden on the streets. But choices must always be made, and I say that I would choose between whether we build these fancy overpasses or fix the streets of our larger cities. I think that the latter would win all the people who drive around, entrepreneurs, tourists, and our country would have a much better picture. The choice must take into account the money we collect and decide which items we repair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U175	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U176	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good Tarmo! The draft proposed by our group, which you are defending, is'step-by-step': next year, the money from excise duty on the road would go 15% on local roads, in 2015 20%, and so on with the steps of 5%, to 30% in 2017. Could this 30% survive in 2017? Is this the optimal allocation for local authorities to keep their roads in order, snow pushed and repaired? Is that the limit and the optimal amount of money you could handle?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U177	Thank you. It would be optimal in this sense for local authorities to be able to build something new and repair something with this money. You have to fix bridges and allegiances for tea. We know there are cities with five bridges and so on. Where do you find money to repair bridges? This is perhaps the amount that could lead the way to such a condition that we do not have to break cars there and feel worse on the roads of the municipalities than on the country roads. This amount has been calculated by specialists.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U178	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U179	Thank you. Good colleague! With regard to this bill, we are talking today about the use of excise duties on fuel. However, it seems to me that the general trend in the use of excise duties is not correct. How do you even rate excise duties, including excise duties on fuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U180	Thank you. The excise duty has been put into effect for this purpose, as the Minister of Finance has said, in order to combat certain tendencies. The idea of fuel excise is also that useless traffic should be reduced and so on. But the goal is that the excise duty that is collected on fuel would be to maintain roads, because it is not normal for people who do not drive to pay money to maintain roads. This isn't normal! These things are in direct connection: the one who spends should also pay. If we go further from here, road tax, which is a very direct tax, will also be used in many countries, and this money will be collected from the people who use the road.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U181	Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U182	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! My question concerns excise duties. One thing is the percentage of excise duties on fuel that will reach 30 in 2017, and the other is the absolute number, or the amount of money that is behind this 30%. Do you have or do you think it would be useful to order an analysis through the Ministry of Finance, for example, of how excise duties on fuel are to be collected in the coming years? Then the amount of money that goes to local governments for tea could also be written behind that percentage. Is there a calculation, or would it be appropriate to order them here, so that we can find out with what amount we support local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U183	Thank you for your question. There is a table showing the amount of road funding for the 2008-2014 period. There is also a table showing what amount should be given to local authorities if an increased percentage is used to allocate fuel excise money. A total of EUR 46,7 million in 2014, EUR 63.9 million in 2015, EUR 81.7 million in 2016 and EUR 100.5 million in 2017.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U184	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U185	Thank you very much. Good waitress! The Republic of Latvia is not far from where you live. Have you also analysed our proposal in comparison with the current situation in Estonia, which is above all in our neighbouring countries, Latvia and Lithuania? Are they ahead of us, or are they behind us? Are we road signs, or are we trying to catch up?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U186	Thank you. There is no such comparative analysis of the state of our roads and those in neighbouring countries. Above all, we should, of course, compare ourselves with Latvia and Lithuania, and there is no point in comparing ourselves with Finland and Sweden. There is no comparative analysis of this and, frankly, I have not traveled around these countries in many years either. You can imagine that there is no better road situation than we are. Maybe the local roads are better, I don't know how to describe it, but the basic roads are definitely no better. We have to admit that the country's main roads are not in a very bad position if we mean road surfaces, but the situation of local governments is quite sad. If the municipality owns 41% of the total road network and only 10% of the fuel excise money is allocated to them, the proportions are not in place. We're trying to keep the roadblocks in our country in order, but I don't have any comparative data on our neighbours.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U187	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U188	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Just in case, I'll give you some information. In recent years, excise duties on fuel will be collected at around €300.330 million per year. The calculations of the Municipalities Association show that for summer care, winter care, current repairs, construction and renovation of coatings, municipalities need 105 million per year. This means that the 30% we offer will fully respond to what they want, but in several years' time. But my question is about another thing. Why do you think local government associations have been unable to agree with the government on road maintenance over the years? What is the difference in principle? What is the main problem that they cannot solve between themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U189	Thank you, Mikhail, for the question. This should be asked by the representatives of the Government who will not sign this agreement, in particular from the Minister for Regional Affairs, Mr Kiisler. In fact, the government has taken quite an interesting route. They claim that this is not the responsibility of the State, that it is the responsibility of the local authorities, like many others. But who will secure the local government's income base? The local government cannot secure its own income base. This depends on the central government, the percentage of income tax that the central government determines, the amount of the fine-tuning fund, etc. To say that local authorities can handle this on their own, that the law does not impose an obligation on the state, and that the state gives a gift, I think it is not a constructive approach. The central government should also think about how local authorities manage. Local authorities cannot impose taxes on themselves, and if they do, these taxes will be changed immediately. The tax law is being circled, like it was with sales tax and some other tax. Our local governments do not have autonomy in essence, but autonomy guarantees the local government a solid income base, with which they can predict and organise their lives for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U190	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U191	As we read on the news, our northern neighbours, Finns, want to start charging car taxes according to mileage, counting on the mileage. Would it make sense for us to think about these thoughts? Do you think that might improve the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U192	Thank you. I read the news, too, and I think that's the tax that's gonna apply in 2020. It's one of the neighbors' plans that they're trying to maintain their network. It's expensive. What choice do you have? There are many possibilities. There's no need, Heimar, to look for extra money if you don't take advantage of the money that drivers are paying right now. If half of the fuel excise money goes away, it is not a question of the lack of money, it is simply not used in a targeted way. For my part, I can say that there is probably no situation anywhere in the European Union such as ours that cars are the proudest and the poorest roads. They don't fit together in any way. Things should equalize somehow. But there's a place to think. If the coalition comes up with a good proposal, then I think we are thinking along, because it is actually necessary to find a solution together, some key to really improving the road situation. The more we stretch it, the greater the amount of money will grow, because, as I think I said before, cumulative underfunding is about EUR 300 million to bring the road to a normal state. This amount will increase if we do not repair you in time and keep you in order, even if we do overcover you, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U193	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U194	Thank you. Last week, Minister of Economic Affairs Juhan Parts reported on the same subject here. The tone of his presentation was that he takes the main roads and local roads as competitors and expects that if we give more road-saving money to local roads, it will be like plucking the blanket off the main roads. Since it is not possible to make full use of the money from the fuel excise duty, this volume is somewhat fossilised and, according to the report of your special committee, it is necessary to manage it. Is there no way that, when the state budget is put together, there will be an obligation to use fuel excise duty fully for roads? What should I do for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U195	A good waitress, before you answer, is a procedural question. Mr. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U196	Thank you, Mr President. I am very sorry, but we all begin our work on committees. Is it possible to leave an answer to that question by tomorrow?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U197	Thank you for your concern, but according to our Home and Working Procedures Act, the procedure must be terminated. Good fellow Tarmo Tamm, I ask you to answer Kadri Samson's question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U198	Thank you, Kadri, for the question. This contrast, that the local government and the state, the state and the local government, we know all the time. Local government leaders are bad, they do not use money for their own purposes, etc. I hope that we will come to a time when we will think together about how life will go better in the country, and we will not be opposed all the time. It doesn't matter to me, as a citizen, whether I'm going out on the road, on the road to the city, or on the way to the state. They shouldn't have different covers. I don't know why the government always contrasts. But I'm saying it's not about lack of money. The main issue is that 50% of the fuel excise money does not go for road maintenance and repair. A slightly larger part of this money should be allocated to local governments. I think the situation will be much better.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-17_U199	Good waitress, thank you! The time is up; tomorrow's sitting we will continue the debate on this item. Good fellows, thank you. Good luck in your work! Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 2.02 p.m.
