ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-10_U1	Good fellows, good morning. We will begin the session of the fourth working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. I would like to ask the members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-10_U2	Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, I will hand over a draft with a completely fantastic destiny. For the first time, I handed over a similar bill in 1999. This is a draft law amending the law on the limitation of the acquisition of immovable property. Again, we are talking about the people to whom we are offering this bill the opportunity to buy up to 0.2 hectares of land in a gardening cooperative. We have had a long debate on this issue. Let me remind you that the last time this was discussed, we reached the third reading, but then something happened, probably some sort of work accident. Let's hope you understand the problem this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-10_U3	The speech chair of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-10_U4	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Central Party Group, I will hand over the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic. Its content is that the Government of the Republic is tasked with developing by 1 June 2014 the legal basis for the appeal committee, which aims to resolve disputes between housing associations in an out-of-court manner, so that disputes in housing associations can be handled more easily and more quickly. I will be very brief as to why this bill is necessary. We all know how our justice system works. We know that this system is overloaded, that litigation sometimes takes years. In essence, the only way for housing cooperatives to settle disputes is to do so in a court of law. However, there is currently no possibility in Estonia to create an appeal committee for resolving disputes between housing associations. Article 6 of the ECHR governs the general principles of legal proceedings, which must also be regarded as general principles of other bodies exercising the function of justice. The European Court of Human Rights has explained that the pre-trial body does not necessarily have to be part of the national judicial system, but has to meet certain characteristics, including its independence and impartiality, being constituted by law and separated from executive power. This body must be empowered by law to exercise justice and its procedures must ensure that a particular case is properly dealt with. Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, was of the opinion that Estonia's general judicial system is seemingly simple, yet resource- and time-intensive. He was of the opinion that the idea of setting up an appeal committee for housing associations was a good idea and that this should certainly be considered. I hope that in this hall, too, it will find its sympathy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-10_U5	Good fellows! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. According to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. We don't have any messages today. We're moving on to the presence check. 61 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 40. Good fellows! Today's trial is over. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 10.05 a.m.
