ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the fifth working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U2	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching six draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the general part of the Code of Economic Activities and other laws. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Consumer Protection Act. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the VAT Act. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and related other laws. In processing these two draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Traffic Act and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Sixthly, the draft law amending the law on granting international protection to aliens and related amendments to other laws. Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U3	Thank you. I'm asking for a speech chair in Mailis Reps! Ladies and gentlemen, we are a little more attentive.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U4	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to introduce you to the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool. If you remember, we broke up in the summer on the eve of Midsummer Day, after discussing the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school, which took out § 82, to which we had to return immediately in the autumn. Autumn is now here. We have questions for the Minister for Education and Research, who will hopefully be able to bring us closer to the truth about the understanding of the future funding of the ministry he has led. We are interested in the new financing model and its foundations. We are also interested in how the ratio between the number of pupils and the number of teachers in the school network is to be adjusted when this financing model is launched. The number of students has almost doubled. Is a similar reduction in the number of teachers planned? How exactly does the Ministry provide for this? It is also interesting to see the specification of the salaries of teachers in January of last year. While it was said at the beginning of the summer that the financing model would nevertheless provide opportunities for support structures, in the previous Question Time, the Minister said that there was no plan. We want to clarify that. We are also certainly interested in whether the funding model is based on the product of the 35 hours foreseen by the new law or the current load rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U5	Thank you. No further inquiries or drafts are recommended. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted six draft laws. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I have also accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Riigikogu's board. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed leading committees for them: the Estonian Central Party Group. a draft law amending the law on restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property initiated on 10 October, the commission of which is the Committee on Rural Affairs, and the Estonian Central Party Group. a Draft of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted on 10 October, the commission of which is the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Chairman of the Riigikogu has appointed a political group of the Estonian Centre Party. a Proposal for a decision of the Riigikogu on the draft of the Government of the Republic, submitted on 10 October, by the deadline for the submission of amendments. 24 October 2010 at 4 p.m. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the following to the Government of the Republic. 2004 Drafts submitted to the Committee on European Union Affairs on 10 October. Firstly, a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing uniform rules and a uniform procedure for the resolution of credit institutions and certain investment firms. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Monetary Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 24 October 2010 at 4 p.m. Secondly, the European Parliament regulation on the exercise of the European Parliament's right of inquiry. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Constitutional Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. November 7th at 4 p.m. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. Currently 80 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 21. Now, honourable Riigikogu, we are going to approve this working week's agenda. I shall vote on the agenda for the fifth working week of the VIth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U6	Let us begin the discussion of today's agenda items. They're answering questions today. First of all, there is the question of the members of the Riigikogu, Karel Rüütli, Sven Mikser, Neeme Suur, Kajar Lember, Kalvi Tõvi, Eiki Nestor, Jaak Allik, Helmen Küti, Rainer Vakra, Andres Anvelt, Rein Randver, Rannar Vasiliyev, Deniss Borodichi and Inara Luigas, 20 June 2013 (No 351). Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, responds to the inquiry. I'm asking for Rein Randver's speech chair on behalf of the inquisitors!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu have submitted an inquiry into the organisation of the handling of mints. They recognise that some farms have been banned in several countries of the European Union. As one of the last, some farms decided to ban the Netherlands, which is the third largest farmer on a dairy farm. After some farms were banned in England, the pressure to create them increased in some Eastern European countries, such as Poland, where there are not enough laws and supervision to successfully regulate farming on the farms. We can assume that after banning some farms in the Netherlands, the pressure to expand fur farms in Eastern European countries, among others, will increase again. In the field of the environment, there is a need to focus on high environmental risks in order to improve environmental status and compliance. The Ministry of the Environment, however, has problems with farms that do not comply with the law. Some farm topics are covered by several laws: the Law on Animal Protection, the Law on Water, the Law on Disease Control. From time to time, American minks, or some kind of mink, escape and threaten the European mink that is protected in Estonia. With one example of many, it can be said that there are about 30,000 American minks in Karjaküla, the largest fur farm in the Baltics, but during the mating period the number can reach 150,000. Strangely, until now, the farm has been operating substantially illegally because it has not been authorised since the Environmental Board Regulation in 2008. Despite the failure of existing fur farms to comply with existing legislation, the Environmental Board has decided to issue an authorisation for a new farm to be built in Suur-Nõmmküla in Läänemaa. The members of the Estonian Chamber of Environmental Associations, who have also sent a letter to the Minister of the Environment, have repeatedly drawn attention to the problems. The House has stressed that they are concerned about plans to set up a farm, as the farm in question is planned to be built in close proximity to bird protection areas, so in the case of environmental impact, in addition to the risk of introduction of an alien species into the wild, possible damage to birds nesting on the ground must be taken into account. The European mink is the only successful repopulation attempt in the red list of the highly endangered species of the International Union for Conservation of Nature in the world. Given how much labour and money have been spent on restoring the European mink population in Estonia and how scarcely the restoration of the species is progressing, it is unacceptable to build new farms and expand existing ones in Estonia. It is estimated that more than 60 individuals can enter the wild from each farm each year. The existence of some farms does not fulfil the obligation imposed on them by law to prevent animals from entering the wild. As a result of the above, 14 members of the Riigikogu wish to receive answers to the organisation of mints and have submitted six questions to the respected Minister for the Environment. Have a successful exchange of views!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U8	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of the Environment of the Chair, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, to answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U9	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I respond to the question being made, because the subject is related to the Nature Conservation Act, which regulates the administration and administration of the Ministry of the Environment. This law only deals with some kind of farm and raccoon farm from fur farms. I therefore expect that I can base my answers on these two species in particular. More general rules for fur farms are dealt with in the Animal Protection Act and its sub-acts, which govern the area of government of the Ministry of Agriculture. The first question: 'How many fur animals farms operate in Estonia, many have been authorised and several farms operate without fulfilling the requirements of Estonia? " Currently, three farms have been authorised in Estonia. None of those who have been granted a permit are currently active. However, there are three farms with the same type of farm. a No authorisation as of 1 October. None of the raccoon farms operate in Estonia, nor of course has any of the raccoon farms been licensed. The second question: 'Why have the farms so far not been able to bring their activities into line with the legislation in force, despite constant precepts, since the beginning of these rules? " It seems to me that this issue is intended for farmers who operate illegally. I will certainly not be a justification or a justification for their actions here before Parliament. The third question: 'How does the Minister of the Environment assess the situation where animals entering the wild from farms raise the naturalised population's population to a natural level, becoming a critical additional threat to those protected species whose survival is already largely dependent on national conservation measures and financial resources? ' That was the question you had asked. It is certainly a cause for concern that mints enter the wild, which is why there are also concerns about farms where the requirements for keeping mints are not met. It has to be said that there is no such example that some farms have been able to completely prevent the American mink from entering the wild; unfortunately, we do not. It is also true that since the amendment to the Nature Conservation Act entered into force in May of this year, all active farms have made a huge effort to bring their activities into line with the requirements. Indeed, it has to be said that it is not currently excluded, and it is unlikely to be completely excluded, even if these farms are going to meet all the requirements, that they are particularly threatening protected species. This is problematic when we look at the Ministry of the Environment, particularly because the release of American mink into the wild will certainly reduce the effectiveness of efforts to benefit many protected species. Estonia is one of the few European countries where Europe's mink population exists in nature, but some, unfortunately, pose a very serious threat to European minks. Question 4: 'Why did the Environmental Board, on the basis of an expert evaluation commissioned by the company, decide that the activities of the farm planned for the village of Suur-Nõmmküla in Läänemaa do not have a significant environmental impact, and therefore no environmental impact assessment will be initiated for authorisation? ' The Environmental Board can analyse all kinds of applications from the perspective of the rules, norms and laws in force. If a project is presented that complies with all the rules and requirements set out in the legislation, the Environmental Board and any other public office will not have the right to reject it on the sole basis of suspicious intuition. However, it has to be said that the Environmental Board submitted a number of further questions on this request and set a number of conditions. An expert opinion was also asked whether and how it would be possible to prevent the introduction of mints into the wild. On the basis of this expert opinion, the applicant changed its project and took into account any additional recommendations to reduce the likelihood of American mink being released into the wild. In particular, the applicant's declaration that all additional conditions would be met had to be taken into account in its decision by the Environmental Board. As is known, this process has been challenged and, according to current data, the appeal should be brought before the Court in April 2014. Question 5: "What economic impact do fur farms have on the economy, and will it outweigh the damage to the natural environment? ' As I said in the introduction, I can answer first and foremost about some raccoon and raccoon muscles. Kährik's farms, as has been said, do not operate in Estonia. No legitimate farm in Estonia that meets all the requirements is currently operating. It is beautifully difficult to comment on the impact of an illegal farm on the legal economy. Once again, there are no legitimate farms in Estonia at this time, so they cannot have an impact on the legal economic sector either. Question 6: "Can Estonia, like many other countries, ban fur farms? ' I wouldn't generalize and draw a very clear line here. The growing of minks, or American minks, is problematic because these animals really threaten protected species. A working group has been working for some time at the Ministry of the Environment, which has prepared a draft law that provides that the farmed handling of minks that threaten European minks should be stopped in Estonia with a certain period of notice. Whether this deadline is five, seven or ten years, as was the case in the Netherlands, to which the questioners referred, there must probably be an exchange of views. But true, especially because some pose a very serious threat to the protected species that exist in nature and also harm them, this draft is what we have prepared. Thank you. I am happy to respond to all the additional questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U10	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! What will happen if we know that we have three illegal farms and that their activities are definitely a very high environmental risk, because there are no proper manure reservoirs on some farms or other farms? These farms have been prescribed, but how far away are they with their things? How far away are their investments? What's their future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U12	Thank you. Not only have they received precepts but they have also been fined. We're in the middle of a lawsuit about the last fine. The Environmental Inspectorate not only monitors what is happening, but quite vigorously and diligently calls the offenders to order. Following the entry into force of the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act on 1 May, it will be possible to treat illegal operators much more harshly than has been the case so far. Now these illegal or unauthorised farms have been very busy making them compliant. As I said, the last fine was fined quite recently, and this is what the trial is about. You asked what would happen to them. If they are able to bring themselves in line with the requirements in force (they are already quite harsh, but do not completely rule out any possibility of access to nature), they will be able to operate on the basis of the permit until the legislator considers it reasonable to keep some farms in Estonia. If Parliament is to support this draft, which we will send to the coordination circle in the near future and which will forbid the farmed farming of American minks threatening European minks in Estonia in the future, these farms will be able to operate as long as the law allows.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U13	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U14	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. The situation is, in fact, very peculiar: we have some authorised farms that do not operate, and then we have three farms that do not have a permit, but that do. We try to dictate them, we fine them, but, as you yourself pointed out several times, we don't have any law-based farms. Why hasn't their actions just been stopped if it's illegal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U15	Thank you. The legislator should be very well aware of whether the law currently provides opportunities for a forced winding-up and what those options are. So far, the situation has been that the inspection has not had such an opportunity; the law does not allow it. You have not provided for such a framework for the inspection by law so that he can go and stop the farm immediately. You have recently supported the amendment to the Nature Conservation Act, which will strengthen the penalties. Since then, it has been possible to apply to the courts for the cessation of activities. This process, as you might think, is not one that can be implemented very quickly. In the meantime, the inspection must be based on the frames he has been given. The inspection shall be able to impose fines under the misdemeanour procedure for non-compliance. That's what he does.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U16	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U17	Madam President! Minister, first of all, thank you very much for your answers. But I want to be more specific, because I didn't quite understand. Is an environmental impact assessment required in order to obtain an authorisation for the establishment of a fur farm?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U18	Thank you. Where it is foreseen that such activities may have a serious impact, in particular on protected species or Natura sites, the environmental impact shall be assessed. If you had in mind the authorisation granted to the planned farm in Suur-Nõmmküla, the Environmental Board called for further expertise and expert assessment. As I said, the proposed project met all the conditions set out in the law and the rules resulting from other acts. The expert opinion requested also confirmed that, if the project is completed and the additional conditions put forward by it are taken into account, the impact will be minimised. That's why the Environmental Board had to act the way it did and issue a permit. However, as the trial is under way, which has not yet reached the first debate, it is very difficult to go to the details. It has to be said that the Environmental Board had to be governed by the law and by all the rules resulting from the acts of law. That's what the Environmental Board has done.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U19	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U20	Thank you. Madam Secretary! How has it happened that illegal activities cannot be ended legally in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U21	Thank you. To date, the draft Nature Conservation Act submitted by the government has been approved by a wise parliament and this stupid situation has been brought to an end. If the injunctions are not complied with, it is possible to request the cessation of activities by the court. Whether this is the most sensible way in this form and in such a situation, I may have a poor comment to make, because Parliament has proposed such a framework. I hope that there will be no more situation in any other sector than in the case of some farms that have been operating without any permission for a beautiful long time. I think this is an exceptionally poor example, modestly speaking.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U22	Thank you. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U23	Thank you. I'll keep asking about the same thing that Eiki Nestor asked about. We have legislative changes that, however, give us the opportunity to react, as a result of a rather long trial. We can imagine that in addition to situations where irreversible damage is caused to animals and Estonian nature, there are also situations where irreversible damage is caused to people. Doesn't the law first give the institution a chance to shut down by coercion and only after the trial, to argue whether the closure was adequate or not? Let us imagine that the damage caused is not reversible. In such a case, is there a need for a multi-stage trial, with the non-authorised institution still working at the same time? If the law says so, how do you feel about the law as Minister of the Environment? Perhaps Parliament should come back to this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U24	Thank you. I'll start at the back. As I pointed out, the working group has done a very good job, which has prepared a draft law that provides for the cessation of the activities of some farms in Estonia. The reason why this has been achieved is precisely that even if the Agency, by its regulations or by the law of the legislator, provides for exceptionally harsh conditions for keeping mints, there is no example of Estonia or elsewhere, which could be mentioned, saying that it is indeed absolutely impossible to get into the wild. There's always some kind of probability that a certain amount of mints can and will enter nature. Estonia is one of the few European Union countries where European minks live in the wild. The damage that some American mink may cause in the event of a massive release into the wild to European minks, we probably do not want to imagine anyone actually. Whether the court should take decisions on what they should be and how it should happen if the process you referred to at the beginning of your question should take place, whether or not there is initial legal protection, it is absolutely impossible for me to predict. Whether this whole process should allow the farm to proceed peacefully without permission, or whether it can be ruled out at the outset by initial legal protection, it is a question of predictability and speculation. I don't think it's my place to go this way of speculation right now. In my opinion, it is not practical to keep American mink farmed in Estonia and it would be reasonable to end it. In order to avoid very lengthy litigation about whether someone who has made investments, which because of the right to come back from the state to an illegally operating farm, must have a reasonable length of transition period. It can't be six months or a year, probably not three years, but I think it's reasonable to make this amendment to the Nature Conservation Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U25	Thank you. Please, Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U26	Thank you! Good minister! I'm asking you to expand your horizons. Does the honourable minister have any information on how many minks and European minks we now have in the wild so that we can get a clear picture of what this relationship is like and what the situation is like?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U27	Thank you. In order to increase Europe's mink population, we have made, among other things, a beautiful investment with European Union money. No one would probably risk telling the exact number. It is known that one of the projects aimed at raising the European mink population did not prove very successful. There was hope that we would be able to increase this number, but the first stage, unfortunately, was not very successful. Now we're gonna go. In addition to being kept in relatively narrow farm conditions, there are indeed wild mints in Estonia. The largest holding authorised is authorised to keep up to 2,700 animals, the next largest holding is authorised to keep up to 1000 animals and the smallest holding is authorised to keep 108 animals. But like I said, none of these three farms are operating right now. The problem is, too, that if any of the illegal farms enter the wild, there is no way of identifying which owner they have run away from. For example, we have been asked whether, in the case of some farms, the 'polluter pays' principle could not be applied to the damage suffered by the one from whom the American mink flees. Unfortunately, there is no such possibility, because the mints on the farm do not have any indication that the caught animals could be brought together with the owner after the owner, or that they have run away from the owner.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U28	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U29	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary! The question, as you could hear in this Chamber, is quite sensitive and, to some extent, creates emotions. But I want to ask you more about European minks. It is known that a lot of labour and money has been spent in Estonia to restore Europe's mink population here. Are you satisfied with what you've done so far? What could be improved or improved in the near future to make Europe's mink population bigger in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U30	Thank you. This is done by the best experts in Estonia and by people who know this area through and through. I trust them, and I think they're acting in the best faith and will. I would not like to reproach those who have submitted projects and organised the restoration of European mink habitats for those who are fighting to preserve the population. Often, the reason for the failure is not that the project's author has not been able to carry out the project. The reason may not depend on the author of the project; it may be due to nature, to a particular moment and to the natural environment. I have no reproach for the people who have succeeded in restoring and maintaining the European mink population.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U31	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I know you as a minister for nature and for the environment. But let me remind you of another subject: the establishment of the Tallikõõõi target protection zone in Võrumaa. You believe that people's activities there should be extremely limited in order to protect this precious habitat, not even a single wooden stick should be taken from it. But here today, we hear that there are three illegal farms that are running away from and ruining our environment. Please explain how this is even possible! How do such illegal farms develop?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U33	Thank you. As I said, I am not going to be the spokesperson, justification or defender of these unauthorized farms in front of Parliament. I think it is totally unacceptable that such a situation has been brought about and it is unacceptable that this situation has lasted so long. I can help this situation to end, and I will.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U34	Thank you very much. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The inquiry has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U35	The next item is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Eiki Nestori, Sven Mikser, Jaan Õunapuu, Indrek Saare, Andres Anvelt, Jaak Allik, Neeme Suur, Kajar Lemberi, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Heljo Pikhofi, Helmen Küti, Rein Randveri, Urve Palo and Kalvi Kõud concerning the implementation of the state budget in the area of government of the Minister of Environment in 2012 on 17 September 2013. The inquiry is for the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimnus. I ask for a chair of Eiki Nestor on behalf of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U36	Honourable Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, To tell you the truth from the outset, the authors of the inquiry had a certain idea of what the Minister for the Environment would say to us today. However, when discussing whether to ask the Minister for Finance or the Minister for the Environment, we preferred to present it to the Minister for the Environment. That's for two reasons. First of all, because the figures in its area of administration are the most obvious, i.e. the differences between the amounts planned and those entrusted to the Minister through the state budget and the greatest difference between the actual implementation of the budget. On the other hand, because the Minister of Finance is expected to protect the interests of his administration, because a large number of reports have been drawn up on the basis of documents signed by the Minister. A little euphemism might fear him about such an answer that if the Constitution, which speaks of the adoption of the budget by the Riigikogu, and the accounting rules are inconsistent, then the Constitution must be amended. In order not to receive such an answer from the Minister of Finance, we preferred to ask the Minister of the Environment in particular. We also did this because, ultimately, it is a conscientious person who has been working in Estonian politics for years and would like to know from him what he thinks of one thing or another. But in order for you to have more ideas on this subject, I say that there is a draft 476 in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, i.e. a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to approve the State's summary report for the financial year 2012. On page 45 of this summary report, you will find such figures. The state budget, which was adopted by the Riigikogu in 2012, provided that the Minister of the Environment could spend EUR 476.059 million. This table column, by the way, is called the original budget, so the number we have adopted is provisional. The next table column is about the final budget, and it is not EUR 476 million but EUR 277,513 million. The third column on final implementation of the budget shows that the Ministry implemented a budget of EUR 244.486 million. The fact that our approved amount and, in fact, the amount allocated to one ministry may differ is not news. This is because, as you know, there are so-called "upper costs', which are mentioned in the state budget by letter. If they are not used in one year, they will be used next year. There are also estimated costs and revenues, the amount of which is not known in advance. However, it is not possible to understand from this report, in any way, why this is happening. What figures does the Minister of the Environment actually take responsibility for? If we trusted him with EUR 476 million, how can it be that he is responsible for spending EUR 244 million? That is why we have asked the Minister five questions. I say right away that at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu today, where we discussed this draft decision, we have already touched on this issue. Is the question that we don't know how to plan spending or how to do it? That's one side of it. But from the point of view of the Riigikogu, it is most important that this confusion with planning and reports enables the Government of the Republic to make large expenditures on which the Riigikogu has not taken a decision. It's basically wrong. We thank the Minister in advance for his answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U37	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of the Environment of the Chair, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, to answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U38	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Members of the Riigikogu! Despite the very heartfelt introduction to the question, I must begin by saying that the way in which you served this inquiry and answered the public with information, as if a large amount of money had gone missing, is frankly offensive and, in my opinion, does not coincide with a good and reasonable way of communicating with one another. I respect the Riigikogu and the members of the Riigikogu very much, and I think that members of the Riigikogu have the right to ask ministers whatever comes to their minds. But I have little respect for the fact that substantive questions are really used to blow up unnecessary suspicions or hesitations. But I'm coming to the question now. We briefly addressed this issue last week in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and this week in the Committee on the Environment, in the context of next year's budget. To sum up the question briefly, it can be said that the Ministry of the Environment has managed beautifully successfully and has managed to deal with quota transactions, and through us tens of millions of euros reach other ministries as well. This is the reason why the 2012 budget of the Ministry of the Environment initially reflected all the money brought to Estonia as a result of quota transactions, which has later actually started to be used by several other ministries. The amount you have mentioned also reflects, for example, expenditure made through the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Social Affairs. But now I'm going to ask you specific answers by question. The first question: 'Did the Government of the Republic misplace and mislead the Riigikogu when presenting the 2012 state budget, or will the Government do so when presenting the annual report? 'The Government of the Republic and the Ministry of the Environment behaved correctly when submitting the 2012 draft state budget and the consolidated financial report (the latter has also been audited by the National Audit Office). In the 2012 State Budget Act, the Ministry of the Environment had a total cost of EUR 476 million, of which a large number, as experienced Members are aware, are estimated costs, EUR 251 million was the revenue of the CO2 quota and EUR 158 million were the grants of EUR 158 million. The summary report of the state budget and the annual report of the state reflect the estimated costs in different ways, hence the difference in the figures between the state budget and the summary report. As you know, this is a formal difference, not a substantive one. The second question: 'Which legislation has confirmed the cost of the Ministry of the Environment of EUR 277.513 million in 2012? ' The 2012 budget of the Ministry of the Environment was approved by the state budget. The summary report for the financial year referred to you shall be drawn up in accordance with the relevant legislation and accounting rules. This shows the volume of expenditure actually incurred purely and only in the area of administration of the Ministry of the Environment. As mentioned above, the budget of the Ministry of the Environment reflects all projects financed from the sale of CO2 quota, including those where the money is used in another ministry's administration (e.g. energy efficiency improvement of buildings owned by the state and local government, implemented by Riigi Kinnisvara AS, boilerhouse programme, currently under way street lighting programme, Tallinn's programme for the procurement of new trams and the renovation of tram tracks). Question 3: 'Do you, as a member of the Government of the Republic, regard the provision of the Constitution and the meaning of the Constitution as equivalent to a situation in which the amount of expenditure allocated by the Riigikogu to the Ministry by law does not correspond to the amount of expenditure to be incurred in the summary report of the state's financial year? ' The Ministry of the Environment has done all of its spending on the basis of the 2012 budget approved by the Riigikogu. Is it necessary to explain this more in the explanatory memorandum to the budget or to the consolidated annual report? It is possible that, for the sake of clarity, this nuance, known to all, should be re-opened there in order to avoid misconceptions such as those that appear to have arisen today. Question 4: 'How much of the budget allocated to the Ministry of the Environment by the Riigikogu is reflected in the annual financial report as executed by other ministries? What planned expenditure was not actually met and by whom? 'The sums used by other ministries are recorded as follows: the Ministry of Finance EUR 140.6 million, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications EUR 51.5 million and the Ministry of Social Affairs EUR 0.4 million. In response to the question of what expenditure was not actually incurred, it must be said that there have indeed been a few parts of the AAU projects that have not been implemented exactly as we wished. For example, in the case of a boiler plant, the municipality or company has abandoned the implementation of the project and has had to find a replacement for one small link of the project, which in turn has to be negotiated with our contract partner and replaced by another project to be implemented. There have been examples that some projects have been delayed by the future. Question 5: 'Did you, as Minister for the Environment, be responsible for using the budget of EUR 476,59 million or EUR 277,513 million in 2012? ' As has been said, the Ministry of the Environment is based on the budget approved by the Riigikogu. I have already explained above what was included in the budget approved by Parliament for EUR 476 million and how it ultimately reflected the projects carried out by other ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U39	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U40	Thank you, Madam President. I don't think I heard the last question. The question was how much the Ministry of the Environment was responsible for either 400 million or 200 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U41	Thank you. The answer is both. EUR 476 million remained our responsibility for concluding contracts, which later allowed other ministries, such as the Ministry of Finance, the state and local authorities, to use this money to make buildings energy-saving. The state budget must reflect, say, the taker of this expenditure or the contractor of the contract. The Ministry of the Environment is the contracting party to this agreement and therefore this amount is reflected in the budget in the line of the Ministry of the Environment. In turn, other ministries do real work. In the area of administration of the Ministry of the Environment, direct expenditure was made for EUR 277 million. However, we concluded agreements that allowed other ministries to spend the remaining EUR 192.5 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U42	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U43	I will continue on the same subject. I have to say that it was not appropriate for the Minister to snap, because there is no such thing as a question of understanding. But in purely constitutional and public finances, in terms of responsibilities and responsibility, the Minister can still not be held responsible for two sums at once. He can be responsible for one. Consequently, whether the first figure was incorrect or whether the report was incorrect. Ultimately, it is the responsibility of the budget makers to ensure that the Minister is responsible for the correct number. Isn't that what this is about?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U44	Thank you. The budget authority and the receiver are you, not me. I can count on the number that Parliament confirms to the Ministry and to the area of government. As there are experienced and very experienced members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs among the respondents, I believe that you can fully understand the content of this matter. The Ministry of the Environment enters into quota sales and it is not possible to record this at the time of the transaction anywhere but in the budget of the Ministry of the Environment. However, it would be inaccurate and incorrect to later include in the budget of the Ministry of the Environment the expenditure actually incurred for the money that the Ministry of the Environment has brought to Estonia when concluding a quota transaction, if that is the case, either the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications or the Ministry of Social Affairs. This has also been discussed several times in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I myself have spoken about this in defending previous draft national budgets before the Commission, which is no new discovery. Once again, this could, for example, be discussed in greater detail in the budget explanatory memorandum or marked with stars, but in the substantive sense, I do not think that anything is wrong here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U45	Thank you very much. No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U46	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The theme setting of the heirs is unlikely to come as a surprise to anyone. The whole topic began at the meeting of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, when the National Audit Office presented its report to us, entitled 'The accuracy of the State's consolidated report for the financial year 2012 and the legality of transactions'. The National Audit Office wrote there, among other things, that, as in previous years, there are still problems with understanding the report on the implementation of the state budget. In particular, neither the presentation of the report nor the changes made to the annual structure of the State Budget Act allow for this understanding. If, after all, years have been difficult to understand, perhaps it should be taken up and explained in some explanatory notes, either when drawing up the report on the implementation of the state budget or the report on the implementation of the state budget. The National Audit Office writes that the report on the implementation of the state budget is not understandable without specific knowledge and is a technical report, not a report that conveys substantive information. The National Audit Office also mentions that the Ministry of Finance deals with the technical and not substantive problems of the state budget. Sectoral expenditure and revenue are no longer always visible. These are the problems that the National Audit Office has discovered when reflecting public finances. Where's the real problem? The concern is that the report on the implementation of the state budget includes an amount called the preliminary budget for 2012, and that is the amount that the Riigikogu law lays down. In addition, the final budget on the basis of which the Ministry, for example the Ministry of the Environment, will be shown, is presented. While these differences are relatively small in other ministries, the National Audit Office specifically identified the Ministry of the Environment, where the difference between the allocated budget and its actual execution was 236.425 million euros and the difference between the so-called final budget and the actual execution was only 33000 euros. Those are huge differences. The fact that one part of the budget of the Ministry of the Environment is implemented through other ministries is understandable in itself, but if it is not possible to read it from the consolidated annual report, it is misleading, as the National Audit Office suggests. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U47	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U48	We have the State Budget Act, which § 43 'Additional Budget' states that the draft supplementary budget reducing the expenditure of the state budget must be submitted to the Riigikogu at least two months before the end of the financial year. Shouldn't this mean that if the Riigikogu has confirmed one cost to the Ministry in law, but the money is spent elsewhere during the financial year, the state budget should be changed here in the Riigikogu? It should not be the case that just six months after the end of the financial year the report is brought and then it turns out that the Ministry has actually used half as much as the Riigikogu decided by law. The process itself, as the Minister explained, is understandable, but when it comes to the financial report and the report on the implementation of the budget, it is completely incomprehensible. It is also understandable that some costs are imputable, cannot be definitively established. This is why the Riigikogu has set up and approved additional budgets for the state budget. This is also referred to in § 43 of the same State Budget Act. In addition, there is an accounting law which lays down the principle of comprehensibility: the information disclosed in the accounts must be presented in such a way as to be concise and unambiguous to the users of the report, who have sufficient financial knowledge to understand the report. It also sets out the principle of disclosure: the accounts shall contain all the information necessary to enable the accounting officer's financial position, economic performance and cash flows to be properly and fairly understood. If we continue to make sure that we confirm one sum by law in the Riigikogu, but this amount becomes quite different without touching the hand of the Riigikogu, then we cannot say that we have financial matters in order. The National Audit Office has also repeatedly drawn the attention of the Ministry of Finance and the Government to the fact that the state budget and the state budget implementation report are not comparable, i.e. the 'financial affairs in order' of the environment and the 'financial matters in order' of the Ministry of Finance could not bear such a name, which is very unfortunate. We hope that the efforts of the National Audit Office will eventually bear fruit, and we hope that the Riigikogu can actively help with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U49	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. The second inquiry has also been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U50	Ladies and gentlemen, after the hammer hit, it is possible to register for speaking in a free microphone. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U51	Ladies and gentlemen, Very soon we will arrive at one of the most important stages of the work of the Riigikogu. No, these are not Sunday elections, but the most important event for the Riigikogu in the year is the processing of the state budget. Perhaps many of you have been able to examine the new draft state budget law and look at what has come into the budget and what has gone missing from it and what dangers or joys it could bring. It was an unpleasant surprise to me that 50% of the funds planned for national science professors have gone missing from the draft state budget. This is a scientific study of specialties relevant to national culture, Estonia's history, ethnology, archaeology, thought, etc. The Chair of Archives that I run is not one of those specialties, so I am talking not about my own, but about the general thing. A person may prefer one, another or third discipline. We have a lot of talk about the importance of engineering. When it comes to 'citizen of the world', it is not bad when it says that reading about star wars is more important than Tammsaare's Truth and Right. But when it comes to the Estonian person, you know, for him the truth and the right of Tammsaare is very important. We all know what national attributes are. The attributes of the state are called Parliament, the Government, the judiciary, these are institutional attributes. In addition, there are internal attributes which mean, in particular, the collective identity of the people or the citizens of the country. Surprise-surprisingly, a collective identity is one of the factors that unite and unite the people, or worse, cause trouble and misfortune. There has also been a great deal of talk in the European Union about the importance of history. The European Union's large programmes have complained that EU citizens do not have a collective identity. Why? But because they have no history in common. Now, however, this common part of history is eagerly being studied, tried to move forward and to move from fighting to cooperation. What if we don't explore our history? Then explore the historians of other countries, they study as they please and how they are useful, they try to justify their claims. This may well happen that we are not indigenous people in our own country, but we are visitors, aliens, or something else. I stress that history is a collective experience of the people, which can be supported in their busy day and also in the revolutionary moments of life. History is an experience that learns or receives warnings. I repeat, a fool learns only from his mistakes, if he learns at all, a wise person learns from the mistakes and history of others. We have much talked about world experience in the history of local governments or in any exciting field. I always cry when I see high-ranking government officials saying they do it in America. That Estonia has done much better in history, they usually do not know because there are gaps in historical knowledge. My time is up, the budget debate is still coming up, and we can talk a lot more about this change. I call on you to change this point again in the future and to support the proposed amendment which would restore the amounts needed to teach national science. If we increase one year, but destroy another year, we'll lose the job we've already done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U52	Thank you very much. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I had a very painful loss today. I didn't lose anyone close to me, I didn't lose any money, but I suffered a huge loss in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I'll tell you a little bit more about it. Today, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we dealt with a bill that regulates the taxation of fuel from Russia for its own use. This is the subject I have been discussing several times in this Chamber. Today, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we reached the point where amendments had already been tabled. They were all voted on. Currently, the law does not regulate the randomity or number of times of fuel production. The law provides that when a passenger comes from Russia, he can bring fuel for his own use up to once a day. The members of the South East Estonian Envoy Group and the Setomaa Support Group proposed amendments, the Centre Party proposed amendments and I also proposed amendments. The Centre Party proposed that fuel from Russia be delivered twice a month for its own use. Similar proposals were made by other MPs. I was based on the fact that Latvia and Lithuania have regulated this problem in such a way that Russia can bring fuel for its own use up to once a week, while Finland does not regulate this problem at all. All these amendments were voted out. This means that the State will not change its decision and would like to put in place arrangements that allow Russia to produce fuel for its own use only once a month. I am extremely sorry that the Government of the Republic treats border residents in this way. I have attended very many meetings where this issue has been discussed. I have brought tax and customs officials to South-East Estonia, and we have all clearly understood that the money that remains due to the use of so-called Russian fuel is not being transferred to a foreign country, but it is being transferred to a grocery store, the same shop as the grocery store from which essential goods are purchased. For some reason, when discussing this issue, the large machines that carry cars from here to Russia are never considered. Those big trailers go over the limit for dozens of hours. When I recently drove from home to Tallinn, 42 such machines met me in two and a half hours, each of them has a tank of 1,800 litres of fuel. Nobody regulates how far and why Russian fuel is driven. I've received a lot of letters about this. I want to read a letter here. I know who the author is, he's allowed me to read it out: "I've been working with my company for 23 years and I feel sure it's hard to do in a country like this. I go to Russia a few times because I have a friendship with a company and my relatives live in Moscow. It is humiliating to see that there are few Estonian machines on the border, but the Russians visit Estonia several times during the day and sell fuel!! I even know places where fuel is collected and sold. In general, it is as if we, the people of Estonia, have gone to get fuel for ourselves, and now the Russians are dragging it here, and the border is often blocked by Russian and Latvian machines. It is noted that Russian machines are inspected at random, but Estonian machines are a big pain in the eye and the bustling of customs workers begins immediately when they see the Estonian machine coming to the border. Let the state adopt the law to stop mocking the Estonians at the border and to cross the border normally by car without it. I mean the registration of the license plate of the machine, not the stamp in the passport. People also cross the border as a fellow passenger, and therefore a stamp is already in the passport, which is an obstacle to driving by car. Both spouses often have a car in their family, but only one of their spouses has a visa. In that case, the husband's car could also cross the border. The vast majority of people go far from work and pay to buy expensive fuel in Estonia, and it is quite difficult to feed the family. This is already seen in the destruction of small businesses and the emigration of people. I don't think your efforts can solve this because the state's wallet needs additions and the border people don't matter to the state. And that's all it takes, because villages empty out of young people and old people go their natural ways. " Such a letter to think of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U54	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U55	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The old situation is here again. Still and always just before the elections, for a few decades now, the entire mainstream media page, radio, television team will attack us, or the Centre Party, and Edgar Savisaar. All these accusations will end immediately after the elections or, in the event of elections to the Riigikogu, after the establishment of the coalition. The attacks are aimed at preventing the Coalition of the Central Party. As we recall, this happened in 2003 when a man was cuffed in front of television cameras, even though he was later declared absolutely right. This means that a lie prevented the Coalition of the Centre Party from going. If there is no other way, the President of the Republic will appear and announce on the public broadcasting news show that the Republic of Estonia is in danger or something similar. This time too, before the local elections, Toomas Hendrik Ilves intervened in day politics, again attacking the Centre Party and thus campaigning for the social democrats - his home party. This is completely unacceptable in a democratic country. The President should stand above day politics and election campaign, which, unfortunately, he is not. The President thinks we're creating mistrust in e-elections. But why should we have more faith in the President than in world-famous Internet professionals, scientists like J. Alex Halderman or Harri Hurst, who are now, by the way, in Estonia, and many others? Their merit (some can be said guilty) can be considered to be that internet elections are no longer held in the United States, England, Finland or, in fact, in any country. The e-election system is not secure, the technology is not yet ready, they say, and these elections cannot be held right now. I think after Snowden's revelations that spying is taking place all over the world, we can trust this system even less. Forgery of the results of the elections to the board of the Reform Party has also contributed to the total loss of faith. Why, then, does Estonia do this? The President has also said in the past who can or may not vote for. The newspapers do exactly the same, they say plainly which party can and cannot be voted for. The county papers even give prominence to suitable candidates. So, what country are we? What kind of press do we have? I myself have studied Juurnalistics at the University of Tartu under Professor Juhan Peegli. He would have considered it totally unacceptable for the press to dive into an election fight, praising one to the sky and pounding the other into the mud. Where's that going? Why, then, have the Centre Party and Edgar Savisaar been buried for so many years? I received the answer from Sunday's "Status in the State," which is anti-Prime Party. Journalist Kalle Muuli said there, in a completely different context, but he said directly that Edgar Savisaar was the most popular politician in Estonia 25 years ago and has been there until now, all these decades. Now that's the real reason for the attack. As early as 1989, a gallup could be read in the Voice of Youth, where Savisaar took first place. Turns out he's too strong, he has too much support, he's too loved. Let no one say that he has gained his popularity with the support of the Russians, as they love to say. I've been going around a lot myself right now. I'm running for office in Kristiine. What do you think has been the first Estonian question to me? They say they support the Centre Party and Savisaar because so much has been done in Tallinn, but they do not understand why they are saying that only the Russians support him. Estonians also support, these people support! That's what it sounds like every other meeting. It's interesting that journalists know all this, but they don't say it and they want to make a different impression. Journalists, make your own conclusions! Be honest with yourselves, and do not distort the truth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U56	Thank you very much. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U57	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Tomorrow, the draft law on apartment ownership and housing associations will be discussed here in the Riigikogu Hall. We'll talk about this tomorrow, but today I also want to touch on a topic relating to housing companies. One feature of the democratic rule of law is the possibility of recourse to an independent body to defend its rights, which is usually a court. However, there are increasingly pre-trial dispute resolution committees in Europe which aim to reduce the burden on courts and resolve certain types of disputes in a simpler and faster procedure. This bill is currently under discussion, and tomorrow we will discuss it. According to the draft, the management of all apartment property will take the form of an independent legal entity, which is a housing company. Upon the entry into force of the Act, the building management company is formed with the creation of apartment property. Persons holding immovable property within the common immovable property shall become forced members of the building management company. In 2012, Estonia had some 21400 properties and some 477000 apartments. The approximate number of housing associations is currently 9500, which is likely to increase if the new Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act enters into force. The Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur, has said that it is indisputably necessary for the functioning of the building management company to have all the members of the cooperative together in a reasonable manner and for the members of the cooperative to take the necessary decisions. At the same time, the Minister has confirmed that there are, in practice, many disputes concerning housing associations. In the Republic of Estonia, the Code of Civil Procedure lays down the procedure for settling disputes between the building cooperative. Any disputes which may arise shall be settled by the court. However, the burden on the courts is very high and the judgment may come too late, for example, if the procedure for convening a meeting and voting there has been broken, but a loan has been granted to the building management company on the basis of this vote. It is very difficult to reverse the situation where the loan has been taken and construction works are already under way. This situation would be mitigated by the establishment of a pre-trial appeal committee, who would be entitled to suspend or revoke the decision of the building management company if he saw the obvious circumstances of the infringement. The creation of this committee would also speed up the resolution of disputes. However, there is currently no possibility in Estonia to create an appeal committee for resolving disputes between housing associations. Article 6 of the ECHR governs the general principles of legal proceedings, which must also be considered to be general principles of other bodies exercising judicial functions. The European Court of Human Rights has explained that the pre-trial body does not necessarily have to be part of the national judicial system, but it has to meet certain characteristics, inter alia, it must be independent and impartial, set up by law and separated from the executive power, it must be empowered by law to exercise justice, and the procedure must ensure that a particular case is properly dealt with. According to the new Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act, the members of the Housing Association are its compulsory members. They have no legal expertise in decision-making. An example of this is the change in the agenda of the general meeting of the building management company when new issues are discussed and objections are given one minute. It is clear that within one minute it will not be possible to shape its position on complex legal issues. In the event of disagreement with a one-minute deadline, the member of the building management company must apply to the court to declare it incompatible with good practice or any other legal provision. However, it takes time to go to court and is expensive. The lack of money is the main reason for leaving many members of housing associations unprotected. The Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur, has said in the Riigikogu that the new Apartment Ownership and Housing Association Act has offered the possibility of resolving the "internal disputes" of the building association on the basis of an action-free procedure, i.e. an application. This is also possible under the current law, but it does not exempt a person from paying state fees. It is clear that many disputes arise in housing associations. Their settlement under the ordinary civil procedure is slowed down for years. It is not appropriate to set up a special court in this situation, as this would lead to a judicial system... I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U58	Unfortunately, I can't give you three more minutes. There's only five minutes left.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U59	Got it. All I want to say is that the Central Party Group has proposed this to the government. We hope that we can resolve this matter in this Chamber either with this bill being processed or at some other time. But it is very clear that the owners of the apartment need an extra-judicial body to resolve their conflicts without demanding state fees and without taking years and years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U60	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U61	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I come back to the subject I started today, asking over questions. This theme is teachers' salaries and support structures at school next year. If we look at the draft budget for 2014, it is very clear that the 5% increase is broadly reflected in most sectors. This is also the case in the education sector. However, to recall Mr Aaviksoo's promises to teachers and to multiply them a bit, teachers' salaries should rise by at least 12%. Where does the difference come from? The Minister has explained that the basic school and upper secondary school law must be amended between the first and second readings and consequently the subtotals will be found. So what are the solutions to find the missing 7%? The first and easiest solution is to withdraw from the initial promise that special needs teachers, social pedagogues, logos and other support structures will also be given money by the state, even with a finger. As of 1 January last year, the teachers' payroll fund, or the payroll fund in terms of education support, states that it must not be paid out to anyone other than teachers. Teachers have been understood as lecturers and class leaders. There is also a concession that a certain percentage, on average 2%, is allowed to be used for school management, i.e. school managers and director. That's all. As a result, on 1 September in quite a number of schools (the situation in different municipalities was different) there was a situation in which no logos, psychologists or social pedagogues, not to mention specialist teachers, were quite certain whether his contract of employment was really valid or not. The solutions have been quite different. Unfortunately, very good specialists have left school, some specialists have created private practice alongside schoolwork, and in very many places where the contract of employment has not been completed, the amount of work is very small. This is the first derivative of this very positive promise to raise wages. The second solution is that the rest of the money for education support will be summed up, starting with investment in education. I would like to remind you that these investments replace the national investment programme of their own time, by which a number of schools across Estonia received additions, in some parts they repaired a gym or a boiler house, or by doing something that was essential, and these investments were not too big. There are no such tools now. If the local government does not have any money, it is basically impossible to find other solutions. These investments, distributed on the basis of student bounty, have been decided to be taken away. In addition, teacher training funding has been significantly reduced. It is not far from being said that this 1% is pointless, and it will be reduced. Support for national events, inter-rural education grants, reserve fund, extraordinary expenses and all that have been lost almost completely. Education support was still distributed in the light of local specificities, taking into account the accidents that occurred, as well as the great achievements of schools, starting with the choir and ending with the achievements of sport, it was considered that some places needed to be updated, but some extraordinary cases arose. These funds are now claimed to be raised to the payroll fund in order to raise this promised amount. However, it is quite likely that this 7% will not actually be found. The truth about the amendments made to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act will then be revealed. You have to look at the head of the school and the head of the local government and say, 'Look, we did everything we could, but unfortunately, there is no funding for it. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-14_U62	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. Today's agenda is exhausted and Monday's session is over. See you tomorrow morning! Closure of the sitting at 4.30 p.m.
