ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U2	Good afternoon, President of the Republic. Good afternoon, honourable members of the Riigikogu, Prime Minister, ministers, constitutional officials, Excellencys, guests! I will open the VIth session of the XIIth Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U3	Honourable President, Members of the Riigikogu, Prime Minister, Government of the Republic, Constitutional Ministers, Your Excellencys, ladies and gentlemen! I consider it necessary and appropriate to speak this year in the opening speech of the Riigikogu about the place of the Riigikogu and the expectations that fall on it a little more open than usual, because more has been said about participation in politics and the functioning of democracy in all Estonian society recently. Parliament, as an institution, can be interpreted in very different ways. All the colleagues in this Chamber know what they're here for. Our role and tasks are set out in the Constitution. Let us remind ourselves and others that in the broadest social sense, Parliament has a role that no one else can play. We are still, and mostly, a representative of the people. According to the principles of representative democracy, Parliament is the highest representative body in the country. One hundred and one of us is the most visible part of government and, therefore, we make the most direct contribution to the credibility of the country, because we have the highest expectations of us. Last year there was quite a lot of debate about the relationship between representative and participatory democracy in different places in Estonia. Several serious debates have made statements that it is time to move forward towards a much better and more effective form of government, when it is parliamentaryism in its well-known form. I think these discussions have been intellectually interesting. In the 21st century, people's access to information and knowledge is so great that it presents new challenges to the state. Citizens want to be more involved in the exercise of public authority, and this is actually great. How to involve informed citizens more in politics and propose innovative, up-to-date solutions for this is a very topical issue for all advanced democracies in the world. Under no circumstances should we view these discussions as an attack on the autonomy and role of the Riigikogu institution as a legislator. If such discussions give rise to ideas on how to strengthen democratic procedures even in the inter-election period, it will certainly be beneficial for society. However, we can be sure of one thing: the Riigikogu continues to be the strongest and most legitimate political dispute resolution forum in society. Let us remember here the golden words of Voltaire were about democracy: 'I do not agree with your opinion, but I will fight to the death so that you have the right to express your opinion. " After all, we know that disputes are the key to democracy. There are inevitably different interests in society, but the quality of democracy is guaranteed when everyone is able to stand up equally for their rights and put forward the strongest argument. Besides being a representative body and being a platform for dispute resolution, we are, of course, still expected to have good and fair laws. Yes, we are now initiating fewer laws ourselves than we were in the 1990s, for example. But serving it as a criticism is like saying that in the old days the lawn was greener and the sky was bluer. There is no point in comparing today's situation with the 1990s. At the time, national legislation was urgently needed. Governments also exchanged very closely. This means that the Riigikogu's contribution to lawmaking was then comparable to that of the current government. The fact that Parliament itself is now initiating fewer laws is not unique to Estonia, but is dominant in Europe. In an age of knowledge-based and evidence-based information, it is inevitable that the government and its official body have taken the heavy end of law-making. However, as a legislator, the role of Parliament will always be to make fundamental and valuable choices, to reflect the balance of views and attitudes in society at present on any issue. Before us, colleagues, the reform of penal law prepared by the Ministry of Justice is a value-based issue. As early as the spring session of 2010, the President of the Supreme Court drew the Parliament's attention to the problem of overcriminalisation. He stressed that, on the basis of the general principle, penal law is an ultima ratio, the type of legal sector that needs to be addressed when the regulatory effects of other branches of law are not sufficient. Our country's ability to protect ordinary people from serious crimes and violations has increased considerably, but there is still much to do. Personally, I think that the Riigikogu is the most appropriate forum for discussing which errors are, by nature and especially from the consequences, such that they deserve the national effort of crime and criminal proceedings, which is related to costs, administrative burdens and criminal penalties. I would also stress the unique role of Parliament in controlling and supervising possible excesses of government and bureaucracy. The growing role of the government and the administration in lawmaking does not mean that we, as legislators, should be limited to improving the quality of laws. The separation of powers gives us the right and obligation to resist, if necessary, attempts to regulate to cure all the world's troubles. However, we are more partners in legislation than we are counterparties. The Riigikogu must continue to actively contribute to solving long-term problems. One example is the employment of older people, which requires much more substantial attention. After the census, we have solved the problem of the ageing population in the Riigikogu debates, but we must realise that it is time to start preparing practically for the changes that this entails. Even now, but in 20 years' time, because of technological progress, we have created many jobs that do not really matter if a person is 20, 50 or 80 years old. But is the attitude and motivation of our employers that if people have enough health and will to work at an advanced age, they will be allowed to do so? What can be done better to ensure that health, working hours and work continue? I believe that this is one of the strategic topics that needs to be contributed by the Riigikogu. Another example is the Rail Baltic project. From time to time, the media have the mistaken impression that it is a Brussels project. In fact, this is the whole project of the Estonian people, because in view of Estonia's geographical location, the existence of proper connections is indispensable as a prerequisite for development. As regards the work of the Riigikogu, I note two things on which Rail Baltic depends. One is the vision of the state budget financing needed for the preparatory work, which I believe we can do. Another and possibly more time-consuming task than many of us has to do with planning the Rail Baltic route. This planning and path analysis is currently underway. There are inevitably conflicting interests in this process. The pros and cons of the different options can be identified and analyzed, but still one solution fits one more and the other less. I call on the members of the Riigikogu to explain the importance of this undertaking in their constituencies, so that people understand the need to also compromise on planning issues that enable life to move forward. We are helping to ensure that this major infrastructure project does not get caught up in endless disputes. There is also a need for consensus between countries. Rail Baltic must meet today's needs, its infrastructure must enable trains to travel at a speed of 240 kilometres per hour throughout the route. This is a strategic project where the government needs a strong partnership of the Riigikogu. Finally, Parliament represents the people, but it is also his task to reflect governance and decision-making back, to explain the background of decisions, to support or criticise decisions. This feedback is ongoing with us, ambassadors, our constituencies and the public. One form of this is the election campaign, in which we are in the middle of the local elections right now. We arrive at a time when we cannot complain about the lack of elections. From autumn 2013 to autumn 2016, i.e. almost three years, we will have four elections: local governments, the European Parliament, the Riigikogu and the President. During the campaigns, political hot blood in northern Estonia is as common as the light weather with intermittent clouds. When mixed with humor, allow me to compare this period with the occurrence of turbulence, during which seat belts are known to be required. Let us remind ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, that we are not passengers of this plane, if the voters are the pilots in the elections, then, during the inter-election period, this role is primarily entrusted to us. No matter how strongly influenced we are by political campaigns, which are undoubtedly an integral part of democratic politics, let us not forget that we are the legislators of the Republic of Estonia. A successful Parliamentary season for all of you. Long live democracy! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U4	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U5	Mr President, I ask you to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U6	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honorable members of the Riigikogu, Prime Minister and members of the government, Chairman of the Supreme Court, Chancellor of Justice, Auditor General! The composition of Riigikogu XII has exceeded the equator by which I do not mean travelling around the world. More than half of the time of the Riigikogu elected in 2011 has passed. The time to which the powers of the XII Riigikogu fall is groundbreaking. For the whole world: Occupy Wall Street, Snowden, economic break in some of the Member States of the European Union, Arab Spring and unforeseen end fighting in Egypt, Syria and elsewhere. Something basic has changed everywhere. Better, worse or just different. This time has also been groundbreaking for Estonia. Estonia has come out of the mast. Economic development has crossed the line from which people's values and life goals go merely from survival to self-realization, so people become more dissatisfied with what they are. Read the Estonian Human Development Report 2012/2013, look at the changes in values and attitudes. We saw strikes and demonstrations in Estonia. We see and perceive people's increased demandingness. A lively and influential civil society is of great value. That's what we wanted. The strengthening of civil society, its visible and influential nature, has already been the goal of my term of office when I took office from my first speech in 2006. The Riigikogu and the government have the opportunity and obligation to meet the people's increased expectations. It is not easy for some to praise theoretical Marxism, others to believe blindly in markets, others to curse political parties in the form of old brats and expect a hard hand to be imposed. Good scientists and guessers, then propose your preferred options in a concrete and understandable way! Explain how to achieve them! That is the only way we can move the debate forward. There are also matters of government. Some are calling for direct democracy, without answering the question of whether any revision of the law should be put to a referendum electronically. Others continue to be arrogantly ignoring the expectations of all kinds of changes, still pursuing the same rigid party-elitarist policy. Most opinions fall between these axes. I would like a wise and competitive government for Estonia. But how can this be achieved? Ilmar Raag recently said well in Postimees that feeding unrealistic expectations into democracy and therefore, of course, disappointment is programmed. Indeed, history and life show that human demands will not diminish once expectations have been fulfilled. There will be new expectations and opportunities for disappointment. That's what progress is all about. But let us set an example in Estonia! It should be possible to give up making unworkable promises and sowing hatred by honest agreement. Our ideal could be that political parties and electoral federations offer feasible goals in elections, and voters ignore candidates who cheat and instigate or offer meaningless slogans. The people want to think about it and make a public statement. It was shown by the people's assembly. That's what we saw at the opinion festival. At the same time, in every society there is inevitably a division of labour. Therefore, I would continue to argue with those who are demanding pure direct democracy. In order to understand the aims of the population, I suggest you familiarize yourself with the ideas of Professor James Fishkin, who visited us this summer, of a deliberate democracy. However, in order to understand my own deep parliamentary tradition, I recommend that you read the thoughts of Ilmar Tõnisson, for example, from his essay 'Paramentarism Prerequisites' published in 1931. On the other hand, I will continue to argue with those who believe that decisions must be made in a narrow circle behind a closed door; parliamentarianism does not mean that either. On the contrary, people must have the information they need to make opinions, and people must be heard when making decisions. It is only a few months before the Riigikogu's proposals are discussed and the necessary legislative changes are made. I acknowledge the willingness of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu to draft legislative amendments on their basis. Honorable members of the Riigikogu, please don't make us disappoint! Good thought mates! Against the background of reforms of local government and education, I would like to emphasise the need for a small country philosophy. There are not enough people or resources in Estonia to imitate the administrative models of the great powers and to spend time on substitution activities. Estonia has a unique opportunity to be flexible, innovative, simple and logical, to identify real concerns, to search for the best solutions for them and to make changes boldly. A small country offers great advantages. We can reach any person we want. Let us give more room for entrepreneurship in the broadest sense! Let us not dampen the will to do with harmonisation, over-regulation, centralisation. These great national approaches don't suit us. We must be much more demanding and more economical. So far, we have had success in the senses, the courage of innovation and the logic of logic. We need solutions especially for Estonia, based on our people and our country. In order for the innovation programmes under way to produce the desired result, we must all think along. Let us not be afraid of change, but let us not expect results that cannot be achieved. Let us not be afraid to correct decisions that are wrong according to today's knowledge. The closeness of elections should not prevent reforms from being carried out. Respectable listeners! This Saturday, 14 September, marks the 10th anniversary of the referendum on accession to the European Union. Estonia is in NATO. Estonian leaders are at the same table as world leaders. And not just as a shy, speechless partner. I am concerned that there is still an attitude in the Estonian public, according to which the protection of human rights is not our business. Do we really have the moral right to give up our support for humanity, to consider someone of little value, to close our mouths and eyes when people are persecuted by the power of the state? I answer: not, especially in the light of the experiences of our own people in the 20th century. We know what repression is. Our palace must be the recognition of human dignity throughout the world and respect for international agreements. It's not just idealism. The principled protection of values is a necessary and right path for us, as is the spiritual protection of our society. We cannot be paralyzed by past fears or illusions. We should also not bury ourselves under padupessism or paddling; we should not ourselves contribute to the underestimation of Estonia. Each of us is an Estonian ambassador. Each of us participates in the creation and distribution of our self-image, as well as the actual Estonian extraordinary. On my recent U.S. trip, I was once again assured that Estonia was taken seriously, very seriously in the world. As President Obama said: we are living proof that one country can come up with a situation that seems to be beyond the control of another. We can believe in ourselves and clearly support human and civil rights, the lack of which still worries us, and in some places more and more. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. From election posters across Estonia, members of the Riigikogu and ministers who apply to local councils look to voters. None of them plan to go to work there. The ad that is known that the candidate will not accept his or her seat when he or she is elected will lead directly to the discrediting of our party system. It's hypocritical and alienating. This leads to the attitude we hear and read about in the media day after day. You all know it is. Ladies and gentlemen, be honest with your constituents. There are two ways. The Riigikogu may restore the right of members to participate in local councils. In this case, the constitutionality of such a situation must be thoroughly debated, but there is no need to fear it. Another option is to meet the objectives of the current law. In that case, city and parish councils should be owned by local leaders. And then they should be highlighted in the election fight. This is a question of the reputation of the Riigikogu, or representative democracy in Estonia. I wish you an active session, good people's representatives. Thank you! Take care! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Sounds like Edvard Grieg's song "Singing Greetings." [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, in the performance of the Engineer's Male Choir, Edvard Griegi's song "The Greeting of Singers" was performed by Ants Üleoja. Thanks to both the male choir and his conductor, Ants OÜOJA! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U9	Good afternoon, too, honourable Riigikogu. Happy New Year! Let's start our routine work. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U10	The Government of the Republic initiates 15 draft laws and submits two draft decisions of the Riigikogu. First, the bill of oath translator. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. Secondly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "The National Tourism Development Plan of Estonia for the years 2014 to 2020" was approved. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Third, the draft law on building ownership and housing associations. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, also represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Forest Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, when dealing with the bill. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Civil Status Act, the Population Register Act, the Local Government Organisation Act and the State Fees Act. Siim Valmar Kiisler, Minister of Regional Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Sixthly, the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, when the bill is being processed. Seventhly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the United Mexican States on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion and the accompanying protocol. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Eightth, bill to amend the Water Act. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Ninth, the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Decimal, amendment of the Penal Code and related amendment of other laws. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of these two draft laws. By the eleventh, the draft law amending the Parental Benefits Act. The draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities. In processing these two draft laws, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Thirteenth, bill to amend the Liquid Fuel Stock Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Fourteenth, draft law amending the Plant Protection Act. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder. Fifteenth, draft law amending the Public Procurement Act. Sixteenth, the Act amending the Insurance Activities Act and the Investment Funds Act. By the 17th, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Acknowledgment of the State's Consolidated Report for the 2012 financial year." The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi when the last three draft laws are being processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U11	Thank you very much. No further drafts or inquiries are recommended. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted 17 drafts. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Now I'll give you the messages. On 21 June this year, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu adopted the following drafts and appointed leading committees for them. First, a member of the Riigikogu, Tõnis Paltsi s. A draft law on the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act, launched on 19 June, commission of the Environment Committee. Secondly, the Social Democratic Party Group. a draft law on supplementing the State Fees Act, initiated on 19 June, the commission of the Finance Commission. Thirdly, members of the Riigikogu in Lembit Kaljuvee, Rainer Vakra, Inara Luigas and Kalle Laaneti. a draft law on the amendment of the Waste Act, initiated on 19 June, Leading Commission on the Environment. Fourthly, the Social Democratic Party Group. A draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act and the Local Government Associations Act, launched on 19 June, is hereby approved by the Rural Affairs Commission. Fifthly, the Social Democratic Party faction. a Draft Act amending § 29 of the Citizenship Act, initiated on 20 June, Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Sixth, the Social Democratic Party faction. a Draft Act amending § 25 of the Defence Union Act, initiated on 20 June, Leading Commission, National Defence Commission. Seventh, the Social Democratic Party faction. a Draft Patient Act, initiated on 20 June, Leading Commission on Social Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. a the following drafts were submitted to the Committee on European Union Affairs on 4 July, 12 July and 29 August. Firstly, a draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on guidelines for trans-European telecommunications networks. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions and draft regulation of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 12 September at 4 p.m. Secondly, the draft Council Decision on the arrangements for implementing the solidarity clause by the Union. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Constitutional Committee and the National Defence Committee to give an opinion on the draft of the Government's positions and decision. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 12 September at 4 p.m. Thirdly, the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures to facilitate the exercise of the rights conferred on workers in the context of the free movement of workers. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Social Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 12 September at 4 p.m. The Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded to the Committee on Foreign Affairs the Government of the Republic. a Communication from the European Commission of 5 September on a more competitive and efficient defence and security sector. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the National Defence Committee and the Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions and communication of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 19 September 2010 at 4 p.m. And now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 92 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, there is no 9. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the approval of the agenda for the first working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. You have these materials and I will put the agenda to the vote. Let's start the voting procedure, but first I'll give you a call signal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the first working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 93 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one was against or impartial. The agenda for the first working week is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U12	Let's go to today's questions. The first is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Rainer Vakra, Lembit Kaljuvee, Deniss Borodichi and Kalle Laaneti on 18 June 2013 regarding the activities of Eesti Pank in connection with the VEB Fund (No 347) to Mart Laar, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. I would like to ask for the chair Rainer Vakra as the representative of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, Mart Laar, former Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia and current Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, has said that he is giving up day politics. It is better to say here that he has promised to give up his day-to-day policy in favour of Eesti Pank. Since the connection with the VEB Fund is obviously the biggest disgraces and confusions in the history of the Estonian central bank, it is extremely important for Estonian society to find out the truth on this issue. I believe that the relevant special committee of the Riigikogu, in cooperation with the National Audit Office, will bring us closer to the truth. Jaan Männik, former Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the VEB Foundation, has spoken earlier in this Chamber, whose answers were mildly unspeakable. Today, Mart Laar will be able to turn a new and clean page. The public is most interested in the fate of the claims of the VEB Fund related to the government and Eesti Pank. The Russian Foreign Economy Bank also held a large amount of Estonian taxpayers' money in the correspondent accounts of Estonian banks, which was exchanged into VEB Fund certificates. It is now known that as much as 360 million kroons of government and Eesti Pank's certificates have been converted into currency in Russia. In this respect, I recall that the main message of the legal assessment of Lasse Lehise, the Docent of Financial Law of the University of Tartu, commissioned by the VEB Foundation of the Riigikogu and the National Audit Office, was that the government and Eesti Pank, as representatives of the state, did not rely on the primary obligation of the state to protect the interests of all Estonian residents whose money was frozen in Russia. At the same time as the owners of VEB Fund certificates, the Government of the Republic and Eesti Pank carried out transactions with certificates, narrowly based on their interest as certificate holders in obtaining financial benefit from it. The cash from the sale of the certificates should also have been distributed among all the creditors of the VEB Fund, which was not made. From the new chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, we and the public want to know what his willingness to deal with this issue is. On the other hand, we would like to know the opinion of the President of the Council on what has happened and who is responsible. As we know, VEB Fund certificate holders received compensation of EUR zero due to the failure of the sale of VEB Fund's assets. According to Mr Laari, is this a fair solution in a situation where the claims of then Estonian banks were allocated in 1993 and transferred to the National VEB Fund for the reorganisation of the banking and financial system? In essence, the persons who received the VEB Fund certificates were deprived of the money they had in their bank. What role has the government and the central bank played in all of this, and is it a personal responsibility of public authorities or only persons? Who finally thinks Mr. Laar should take responsibility? We want answers to these and five other specific questions from him as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. Deniss Borodich, Kalle Laanet, Lembit Kaljuvee and Rainer Vakra have signed the inquiry. Thank you and the strength to answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U14	Thank you. I ask for a chair of speech by Mart Laari, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U15	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to wish you all a "Happy New Year" and a lot of strength, toughness and sober mind for the new parliamentary season. But now to the question. At its regular meeting on 3 September, the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank discussed this question and unitedly agreed that since the powers and tasks of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank are well defined by you, the legislator, as are the tasks of the Governor of Eesti Pank and the Executive Board, the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank will certainly not interfere with these two matters despite all the temptations. Because if we did, we would actually question the authority and operational possibilities of the bank's management, especially the bank's President. I wouldn't want to do that in any way. As regards the issue of supervision, the prevention of such potential incidents, this issue is, however, directly for me and the Bank's Governing Council. And that is a very serious question, because the way in which we now comply with all the content of the output we give to this Chamber and to the general public for supervision by the Bank's Board is a very vital issue. I myself consider it my most important task to respond to this challenge in this position and to give its output. We have already started a debate on how to do this in concrete terms. We have discussed this with the President of the Bank, we have discussed this in the Bank's Board, and some kind of vision is definitely starting to develop. I believe that before a year passes, we have this vision. Dear heirs, if you are so kind and after a while you ask me again what we have done specifically, I will be happy to answer. In any case, I consider it very, very important that Eesti Pank really is able to carry out its own supervision. It's not a miracle drug that can prevent all human error and even the hogs, but it certainly would help to avoid and soften them a little bit. So we're taking this function very seriously and we're going to take it seriously. This is a relatively new task for the Bank's Supervisory Board, and this is also the reason why it has not been fulfilled so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U16	Please, any questions for Mart Laar, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank? There are no questions. Thank you, Mart Laar, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank! Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The first question is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U17	Next is an inquiry by Lauri Laas, Valeri Korbi, Peeter Võsa, Kalev Kallo and Tarmo Tamme, members of the Riigikogu on 21 May 2013 to Juhan Parts, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications (No 339). I'm asking for a speech chair for Lauri Laas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U18	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, in the spring, one inquiry was made by the members of the Central Party Group to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. The brief summary of the request for information is as follows: This year, OÜ Autorollo and related transactions have been the subject of constant media attention. It is noteworthy that the family of the Minister of Environment is involved in the association. In the context of the bankruptcy proceedings of Autorollo, the issue of the appointment of persons to boards of state companies has arisen. The Minister of Economic Affairs appoints members to the Board of the Enterprise Estonia Foundation, and he also controls the management bodies of the state companies Eesti Energia and the Environmental Investment Centre. It is noteworthy that these governing bodies are manned by loyal people needed by political parties. That is why we have also been asked to find out why this has happened and why a government-level policy is being pursued to wash hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U19	Thank you very much. I'll announce the chairman's break until 3:57 p.m., five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U20	Dear Riigikogu, let's continue our trial. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, please. Minister Juhan Parts, you are welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U21	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I apologise for the fact that I did other tasks and information here in the Riigikogu, that the first question was quickly concluded, reached me with a little delay. So I'm sorry about the break the President had to take. Now I'm going to answer questions from the questioners. First of all, 'What is the basis for the appointment of members to the boards of state companies? Which qualities or experiences of the person are based on and evaluated? "The appointment of members of the board of companies is governed by the State Assets Act. I suppose it's generally known to the inquisitors, and I'm not going to recount it. In addition, much depends on the company's activity. It is important that, when selecting members of the board of directors of a company, efforts are made to bring together people with different skills, knowledge and experience, whose contribution to the board will benefit the company. It is also certainly important that there is no conflict of interest between the members of the supervisory board and the company concerned. These are the conditions that I have taken on. The second and third questions were which favors were assigned to the Board of AS Eesti Energia by Toomas Tauts, a member of the Supervisory Board of AS Eesti Energia, and for which favors Anti Tammeo had been appointed to the Board of Enterprise Estonia. It could be answered briefly that no one is appointed as a member of the company's board of directors for merit. I don't think that's my way of thinking, maybe it's more of a questioner thing. This is, in fact, a groundless argument. As regards, in general, the role of members of the board of directors of state companies, it would be wrong to regard this place as a form of sinecurities or a service. The exercise of the functions of the board of directors of larger and more complex companies requires considerable time and work to be carried out by the board of directors. This cannot be limited to participation in Council meetings alone. Of course, it must be taken into account that one or the other member of the Council is willing to contribute his or her time to this. Business decisions with high impact or the difficult situation of a company may require the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and also the members of the Supervisory Board to commit themselves to the fact that it may at times be difficult to reconcile with other work. As regards, in particular, Toomas Tautsi and Anti Tammeoksa, they are entrepreneurial people with business experience who have been socially active. This was the reason why they could be appointed to these councils. A lot of public charges aren't true, but if the questioners are interested, we can do the exact same thing about these particular people. Question 4: "Is the appointment of members of the boards of state companies linked to making donations to the IRL and the Reform Party? ' No, there's a short answer. I can also comment. My experience has shown that many entrepreneurs who support political parties do not really want to contribute to corporate governance either. On the contrary, people who, in fact, could, with their entrepreneurial experience, or with their life experience and knowledge, make a significant additional contribution to the board of one or the other company and who have also supported political parties are afraid of being appointed to the board. In other words, this effect is perhaps the opposite of what is desired. Question 5: 'How is it ensured that conflicts of interest are avoided when determining the members of the Governing Council and that the private interests of the persons to be appointed are also examined? " § 80 of the State Assets Act defines those conditions, including those which ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided, which must be met by a member of the board of directors of a State company. § 83 of the Act states that a candidate for a member of the Supervisory Board must provide written confirmation to the management body that he or she has examined the requirements laid down in the legislation relating to the member of the Management Board that he or she meets these requirements and undertakes to comply with them. It must also provide itself with the information required by law, with the corresponding declarations and in this way it is possible to assess whether a conflict of interest could arise. Question 6: "Is the ruling coalition divided, which state companies are controlled by the IRL and which Reform Party? ' There is no division. As regards the management of companies and the various decisions at ministerial level, such as the decisions of the Ministry of Finance at government level, the Treasury Act provides a fairly comprehensive overview of this area. The issues of corporate governance are not concentrated in the hands of a particular minister or general meeting. A number of important issues concerning companies can be decided in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and also by the Government. True, a viewer at a distance might have a different impression. We know that there is a rule in law that a board of directors is set up in such a way that half of the members are appointed to the board by the Minister of Finance and half of the members by a minister in whose jurisdiction the company is situated or who, in the case of a company, carries out the duties of general meeting. At present, half the members of the companies under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs are appointed by the Minister of Economic Affairs, who is responsible for the role of the general meeting, and half the members are appointed by the Minister of Finance. Mr. Ligi and I are known to be in different political parties. However, once again, I do not think that such a statement on the question is a realistic one. Finally, I would like to point out that over the last year, we have worked very hard in the Ministry of Economic Affairs to review the practice of managing state companies' holdings, the OECD's relevant standards and recommendations, to analyse best practices in different European countries. This work has been carried out by the working group chaired by Erkki Raasukes and they have already presented their initial results. Surely it is worth reading this material. We very much hope that this review will give rise to a constructive discussion on how better governance of state companies can be organised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U22	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's get to the questions. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U23	Honorable Minister! I'm sure you can tell by heart all the state companies that you and the Minister of Finance appoint members to the council, including members of the Riigikogu. Please tell me who members of the Riigikogu are on one or another board of state companies, how many of them are members of the Reform Party or IRL and how many of them are members of the Centre Party or the Social Democratic Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U24	I can't tell by heart these numbers, so you can count them online. In general, these party decisions have been different. In the IRL, we have taken a position, given the constitutional concept that if we are asked or our minister is able to make the relevant offers, we will not offer members of the Riigikogu to the company council. But I can only answer on behalf of our party. Our coalition partner takes a different view. We know that this is partly a political dispute, but in my opinion there are also legal issues at stake. I very much hope that one day in Estonia there will be a very clear common understanding of the matter in legal terms. If we have consulted on the formation of a council and our colleague, who is from the Reform Party, has wished the Council to have a member of the Riigikogu, it has not been possible to oppose it resolutely so far. This can be a very constructive, very smart person and a very necessary person for this company. I have also appointed some members of the Riigikogu; I have not opposed it. In my opinion, this is a legal dispute where a sensible final solution must be found. At the same time, I do not consider the concept of this idea to be correct, that the Riigikogu should start naming these members of the council. With this, we would take a step in the wrong direction. The right direction would be, as suggested by the above-mentioned Raasuke review, based on OECD experience, that we should, at least under the leadership of companies operating under market conditions, move much further away from the level of political governance, more towards the general principles applied in stock exchange and public companies. There's room for improvement, I'm certainly not denying that. As far as the Socialists and the Centre Party are concerned, I cannot say by heart the number you asked for. Someday I've asked you to send me a message if you have a good candidate. You haven't submitted any good candidates. Which is quite understandable when you look at what is happening in Tallinn, which corruption has conquered it. And you will continue to praise your corruptions in the city of Tallinn! I have no reason to believe that these pushers could be allowed to run national companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U25	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U26	Good minister! Doesn't it seem to you that determining the members of the board of directors of a company is not the main objective of the company's interests; rather, the member of the board has become the instrument of day-to-day policy in the hands of the minister? I am referring to the recent case when the Minister of Finance raised Ardo Ojasalu at the door of the Estonian Loto Council. I didn't understand any of those explanations. Why don't you come and help your colleague and explain your understanding of why this has happened? How did such a miracle happen that a member of the opposition party could sit on the Council for a while, and why did this fairy tale end?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U27	I do not agree with your general assessment that this is some kind of day-to-day instrument. But in the case of a specific matter, I thought that the explanations were quite understandable, given the background transactions concerning the Estonian Elektronpost company and the circumstances surrounding the certificates of the VEB Fund. Often, when a person is involved in such transactions in one way or another, he or she does not consider it necessary to inform him or her and then, in my opinion, such questionable practices are understandable. It has also occurred to me that I am forced to recall one or another member of the Council solely because he has not sufficiently informed about anything. I am now referring to the conflict of interest that could have been reflected in the declarations and other such things. As far as I am aware of this, I am thinking of the decision of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance also acted in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U28	Please, Mr Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U29	Good minister! How do you feel about the idea that the Riigikogu does not appoint members of the board of directors of the company, but proposes to the minister, and the minister is still the one who appoints them? Perhaps to lengthen this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U30	I don't want to talk about any ideas in the bud or approve. What could the Riigikogu do? I believe that once the Raasukes Group report has been made public, the state property law could go into detail, building on international good practice as to what qualities, experience and skills are expected of the members of the Council. If the Riigikogu were to clarify the requirements for Soviets, it would be a sufficient framework to improve the quality of Soviet work. I have really studied the experiences of a number of nearby countries, especially those from whom it is probably worth following. We were talking about bringing individual candidates to the level of the Riigikogu, but in fact, the trend that we should go in with our companies is quite different. Rather, the direction is that, especially if the company is actually active on the market, the appointment of its board members should not be primarily a political decision. Of course, the members of the Supervisory Board must have the trust of the government in office, he is ultimately responsible for representing the interests of the owners, but if the candidates are to be discussed at the level of the Riigikogu, that will inevitably mean a degree of politicisation. Looking at the text of the State Budget Act and the general practice, I think it only makes sense to clarify the requirements that a member of the Council must comply with. I think that would have taken a lot of questions off the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U31	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U32	Minister, thank you very much. You will not appoint members of the Riigikogu to the councils of state companies, but you will not appoint members of the Riigikogu to the council of RMK. In essence, this form of enterprise does not differ very much from that of a company. Why do you appoint representatives of your party?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U33	In my view, membership of a political party is neither an obstacle nor a factor in the appointment of a member of the Council. Otherwise, we would discriminate against people who have decided to appoint themselves politically. Our party does not appoint members of the Riigikogu to the councils because of the general principle of separation of powers. That's my answer. As far as the State Forest Management Centre is concerned, the status of members of the Supervisory Board is currently such that some members are appointed by the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu appoints them by virtue of the Forest Act; it is free to do so. I can't comment on the political affiliation of these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U34	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U35	Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with the question of Mr Kallas. You said you didn't defy any thoughts in the bud, but as a member of the government, you have basically done so. The Government gave a negative assessment of the draft amendment to the State Assets Act, which I wrote, according to which the members of the Supervisory Board of State-owned companies should have received the approval of the relevant Riigikogu committee. The problem is, in fact, that no matter what you end up writing in the law, most of them are 'competence', 'competence', 'competence', 'experience', etc. is a question of assessment. The discussion of the Riigikogu committee could ensure precisely the transparency that the whole debate today is motivated by. Why oppose the Riigikogu commission seeing and discussing the names of members in order to make the whole system more transparent and understandable to the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U36	I can repeat the substantive justification for this removal once again. In my opinion, this is not proportionate. It is the same as if Riigikogu committees were to discuss arbitrary human resources decisions made by the executive. In the same way, I think that this would be a heavy workload for Riigikogu committees, the other way around it would be illogical because of the separation of powers. What the Riigikogu could do more is to examine the real results of companies. As the questions of the interviewers have shown, at times one person or another is tried to make some kind of assessment, regardless of where the information is taken. Estimates should still be made only on the basis of results. I shall evaluate the Governing Council and the Governing Board at the general meeting on the basis of actual financial results. Today, this is a much more advanced goal set by owners than ever before. We can see how much the company has actually been able to do to move well towards one goal or another. We appreciate this on the basis of real results. If the results are bad, it's tough talk. We know that there are companies where the results have been completely intolerable, and we have taken immediate steps in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U37	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U38	Good minister! You have tried to explain here and before that, in your opinion, the most important competence for the appointment of members of the Council is. As you said, the party is not a decisive factor for you and it must not be an obstacle. You certainly agree that, especially in the media, criticism has not been so much about the membership of the political party of the members of the council, but about the very high bonuses for members of the Riigikogu. As a minister, do you think it is right that a member of the Riigikogu, who is already getting a very significant salary in Estonia, will also receive high fees from the Council, while at the same time not recalling any example that any member of the Supervisory Board would have been financially responsible for something?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U39	This, again, is the scope of the law. We discussed here earlier that membership of a member of the Riigikogu is debatable. My view is that, legally, this is very questionable, there is no clarity about it. But when a member of the Riigikogu is appointed to the council, he is basically entitled to be paid for his work, as all the other members of the council receive. There is no separate clause that a member of the Riigikogu who is a member of the board of companies should not be remunerated for this. As far as responsibility is concerned, I believe they're still responsible. True, there is a question of where someone has been financially responsible. In this respect, I think that our general management practice and legal practice must develop further. When I look at the State Property Act in force in Estonia, as well as the Commercial Code, as regards the liability of the members of the company's board of directors, I think this legal responsibility is quite clear. When examining the case law of developed countries, in particular the application of property responsibility to members of the Council, these materials are contained in thousands of pages and in different decisions. Indeed, we have made few decisions according to which, if the decisions of a member of the Council or of the Council, or any other way, have caused damage to the company, claims have been made. The private sector is also in a similar situation. There are relatively few legal practices in this area. The responsibility, however, is quite real and the member of the supervisory board is responsible for the damage caused to the company by its decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U40	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U41	Mr. Minister! Recently, there was a problem on the electric railroad: the train stopped, people waited and were very shocked. Then we got a look at who's on the company board. It turned out that the chairman of the board was an educational food technologist and the rest of the members were public relations and administrative figures. How competent are you to think of people in such a complex area as an electric railway?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U42	In my opinion, I do not remember who explained this to the Estonian public by the fact that the driver scared the situation on the new train. Why now create an arbitrary causal link with the composition of the company board? Rather, there is reason to ask whether the train driver's willingness to take the new train was sufficient or not. It is arbitrary to associate it with the board, which is responsible for managing the company as a whole. At the same time, both the board and the chairman of the board publicly apologized to passengers, which shows that people understand their responsibility towards the company's customers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U43	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U44	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the debate on the basis of the questions that have been asked, it is as if there is nothing special to say here. Yes, the fact that a person has defined himself politically must not be the basis for discrimination; he must also be able to participate in the councils of state companies. The fact that there are only members of the Reform Party and the IRL is a pure coincidence that has so simply happened and there is nothing to be done about it. So there really isn't much to say on this subject. I wouldn't have come here to talk about the remote, but I'm always happy to be able to help the minister who made the report. The snake always tries to bite, whatever you do to him, he's as civilized as he is, but nature is nature, there's nothing you can do about it. So here too: in the middle of a constructive talk about the councils of state companies, the issue of corruption suddenly arose. Where did it come from? Whether it's possible to draw a parallel with state companies or how this process took place in the brain, I don't understand. But it still sounded like Tallinn was crawling with corruption. I've shared information on this subject from the remote, and it's not my data at all. We have an annual yearbook that gives us all the figures for crime by type, all the figures for judgments, etc. I must inform the Minister again that it is a myth that the local governments of Estonia are the place where corruption is developing. That's not true. It was sold out by Mr. Ilves, our president, in an interview a few years ago. It is said to be the biggest problem in Estonia. Since then, the yearbooks that showed that in recent years corruption crimes have been around 200 per year on average, and less than a quarter of them are those committed in local governments. Corruption resides in ministries, offices administered by ministries. Police, registration centre and other state-managed authorities are very high on the ground with corruption crimes. So it seems that this information needs to be shared in this Chamber, this subject is beginning to arise. And as far as it sounds in this Chamber about the wrong corruption in local governments, so much will be answered. In fact, we have a certain degree of corruption, but mainly where our answer to today's questions has come from, it is in ministries and their administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U45	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U46	Next is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Helmen Kütt, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Tiit Tammsaar, Jaan Õunapuu, Rannar Vassilyev, Heljo Pikhof, Indrek Saar, Karel Rüütli, Mart Meri, Kalev Kotkas, Andres Anvelt, Neeme Suur, Kalvi Tuld, Eiki Nestor, Jaak Allik and Rainer Vakra presented this year on 20 May. The inquiry is about youth unemployment (No 337). My colleague, Helmen Hunt, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister for Social Affairs and the good young people who have come to hear the answers to your questions for the balcony! On 20 May, the Group of the Social Democratic Party submitted an enquiry about three and a half months ago to ask for information on youth unemployment. I'm going to read out the little preamble and the contents of this question. Perhaps the Minister of Social Affairs, when he starts to answer, will read the questions, so it will probably be easier to answer. On 15 May, Statistics Estonia published data showing that unemployment has increased to 10.2%, with an increase of 0.9% compared to the first quarter. The unemployment rate among 15-24-year-olds exceeded that of older people on several occasions. Over half of the 7,000 additional unemployments in the quarter were under 25 years of age. True, the majority of 15-24-year-olds, i.e. 61%, are mostly economically inactive due to their studies, but yes, unemployment among young people is always higher than among older people. There are several reasons for this, such as unfinished education and lack of or lack of work experience. In the first quarter, the rate of youth unemployment among 15- to 24-year-olds, i.e. the share of the unemployed in the workforce of the same age group, was 23.1%, which is the highest in comparison with both the previous quarter and the same quarter of the previous year. The youth unemployment rate was then 16.9% and 22.7% respectively. Among those under the age of 25, it was estimated that 51000 were employed and 16,000 were unemployed. We find the situation worrying about youth unemployment. Until then, until 20 May, the Ministry of Social Affairs had not heard of the steps taken. As a result, my colleagues and I have asked six questions to the Minister for Social Affairs, waiting for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U48	Thank you very much, Mr Helmen Hunter. I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs to answer the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U49	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I'll answer the question. Since a lot of water has flowed into the sea since the time of the request for information, and the statistics have already increased so much that we have not only data for the first quarter but also data for the second quarter, the context in which I reply to the question has changed considerably. Indeed, in the first quarter, youth unemployment was marked by a spike on the upside, while the second quarter brought even more down. I will try to explain this as accurately as possible, but I will tell you in advance that it is extremely difficult to justify the spike properly. Statistical error also plays a role, as youth unemployment tends to grow in the second quarter and fall again in the third and fourth quarters, with a very seasonal nature. If we look at the previous years, we will see that the trend has been lower in the first quarter. The first quarter of this year's yogurt really went up, but like I said, luckily it was temporary. If analysed in more detail, unemployment was already 0.8% lower in the second quarter of this year than in the last quarter of last year. If we compare it to last year, this figure had fallen from 24,4% to 16.1%, or a whole third. It's a significant decline. If we look even further back, there was youth unemployment at the top of Estonia in the first quarter of 2010, when it really crossed the 40% limit, though it was only for one quarter, but still. Compared to this period, unemployment among young people has fallen slightly more than 2.5 times over 3.5 years. However, as long as we have one young person who wants to work but is unemployed for some reason, we must also talk about these issues in this Chamber and make a serious effort to reduce youth unemployment. I will now answer the first question: 'Is the increase in youth unemployment a problem in Estonia, in your opinion? What do you think are the reasons why unemployment among young people is nearly twice as high as in the general population? " I have already explained much of this in my introduction. I also stress that, in comparison to Europe as a whole, unemployment among young people in Estonia has fallen faster than in any other country and is currently lower than in the European Union as a whole. To answer specifically, there is no reason to say that youth unemployment is currently a problem, but unemployment as a whole is certainly a problem. The fact that youth unemployment is twice as high as in the general population has been the case since the first quarter of 2008 and, at some point, it has increased more than double. This is the case in every country and there are certain objective reasons for it. If a young person who has recently graduated from school has not received a job in July, it is not a tragedy. It has grown to a problem, of course, when it has not yet found a job in September, October or November. But it is true that youth unemployment is almost twice as high in all countries as overall unemployment for certain objective reasons. I am taking this opportunity to point out that the latest information from Statistics Estonia is that, in July, the overall unemployment rate in Estonia was 7.9%. It's in a downward trend, which is extremely good news. Overall unemployment in Estonia has also fallen faster in the last few years than anywhere else in Europe, and our unemployment is well below the European average. Which does not mean that we no longer have to deal seriously with this issue. The second question is how far it is to develop the Youth Guarantee measures and when they can be consulted. Activities related to the Youth Guarantee have been planned by the Ministry of Social Affairs together with the Ministry of Education and Research. At this stage, we are in the process of having an action plan to implement the Youth Guarantee, and we are planning to confirm this at the meeting of the government this year. The third question: 'Have you also foreseen additional funds to reduce youth unemployment in 2013? ' Yes, we are. Certainly, a number of projects funded by the European Social Fund (ESF) will continue in previous years, helping young people to work. For example, in 2007-2013. On the basis of the 2004 project, we supported the most projects targeted specifically at target groups for young people in the open call for proposals under the 'Enhancing the supply of qualified labour' measure. There were 147 projects in total and 87 of them, or more than half of them were young people involved. In the first half of 2013, the last open call for applications for the current period was launched with the aim of supporting activities to help young people to work. Projects providing a wide range of work support activities for young people aged 16 to 24 who have completed primary, secondary or vocational education or have interrupted their studies, together with work placements at the employer, were supported. Four projects aimed at young people were supported. EUR 1,2 million was foreseen for this round. Question 4: "Who have you involved or are you planning to involve in the development of Youth Guarantee measures? ' As has been said, we are working on these measures together with the Ministry of Education and Research. In addition, the unemployment fund and the youth work centre are very closely linked to everything. Seminars have taken place to discuss youth labour market measures involving youth organisations, professionals working with young people, employers and researchers in the youth field. But there is certainly still a need for such engagement events. We have also received a great many proposals in writing. We're trying to count them all as we can. Fifthly, it was asked what caused the 2% increase in youth unemployment compared to November and December 2012. As I said, this can be partly explained, not quite 100%. But I would like to stress once again that, if youth unemployment has increased somewhat every year since the crisis in the European Union as a whole, in Estonia it has been in a constant downward trend since the beginning of 2010. This figure decreased very sharply in the last quarter, by a whole third. So it's likely that this one-time jump up will make up a pretty large fraction of the statistical error. There are other explanations, such as the end of one-off contracts, which ended at the beginning of the year. But that doesn't explain the whole jump, that would definitely be an exaggeration. Question 6: "Which labour market services are already of sufficient quality and availability to implement the Youth Guarantee, and for which further development or accessibility needs to be extended? In order to ensure the quality of labour market measures, the Labour Market Services and Support Act defines the content and conditions for the provision of services. The quality of labour market services is assessed on the basis of the unemployment rate for a certain period of time. In the first quarter of 2013, the transition to work was to be expected. I can specifically mention the services that young people used the most and thanks to which they received the most help. When we take last year, young people in the 16 to 24 age group used different employment services 12043 times. Job training (3880 times), career counselling (3785 times) and job search workshops (1973 times) were the most widely used. One of the weaknesses that we also take into account when planning new activities is the lack of registration activity of young people. While there has been talk of statistical unemployment all the time, including this question, about young people who are statistically unemployed, only 40% register at the unemployment fund. Thus, only 40% will be available for different services and grants. As a result, a large number of young people may be left without help to help them to work. I call for more active use of these services. We have very specific and systematic proposals, in cooperation with youth institutions, to introduce the opportunities offered by the unemployment fund at school. The new "My First Job" measure is also intended to provide specific help for young people in difficulty in finding work and improving their skills due to lack of experience and qualifications in the labour market. This 'My first job' is a great success in Europe, and it is very commendable. The point is that young people are the first steps in a sort of vicious circle. They cannot find the first job because they do not have work experience. But they don't get work experience because they haven't found a job. We have been very active in dealing with the British Labour Minister on these issues. We have discussed their system over and over and over, and he has very much commended the fact that they have this first job experience measure. It has helped quite a number of young people. I believe that it is also possible to try it in Estonia. Why can't it help our young ones, as many others have done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U50	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's get to the questions. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U51	Good minister! Indeed, at the beginning of the year, we had an increase in statistical unemployment compared to last year's end quarter. It is clear that unemployment rates will improve in the summer as temporary jobs are created. But I ask about the forecasts: what do you predict for winter and next year? We know that the economy is not in a very good position. I will give, for example, the alarming economic forecast of SEB Bank, even today, and the Ministry of Finance itself has halved this year's GDP growth to 1.5%. Latvia and Lithuania have significantly higher figures. What are you forecasting, how will our unemployment change in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U52	You know, I'm working to reduce unemployment. It's not my place to predict exactly how things are going to go. But the projections are being made, and they show that the decline is continuing. If we look at the last few months, as well as the last few weeks, for which we have unofficial information available from the unemployment fund, we will see that unemployment continues to decrease. If we compare any longer periods, it appears that unemployment in Estonia has fallen faster than in any other country in the European Union. That's a fact. We are also analysing employment in parallel with unemployment. The employment figures are even more positive. The Estonian economy has just over 80,000 more jobs than it was at the top of the crisis or at the bottom of the crisis, how it is more accurate to say. If you take the jobs currently in Estonia, we are slightly behind the absolute peak of more than 10,000 jobs, which was during the boom. But it is no longer in the unarmed distance. Which means that there has been a huge increase in jobs in the economy. At the same time, unemployment has decreased very rapidly, but it still exists to a certain extent. The current unemployment rate, which is 7.9%, is more or less the same as in the fourth quarter of 2008 when the overall unemployment rate was 7.6%. And it's lower than any quarter since the first quarter of 2009. But, yeah, that 7.9% isn't perfect yet. We still have room to reduce unemployment. What can you do about it? I said that there are almost as many jobs in the economy as there were in the boom. However, it is also important that we have fewer and less discouraged ones. Unfortunately, there are more and more people in Estonia who have not been interested in going to work for any reason in the past. For them, the opportunity to go to work has not been welcome. There are many more of these people in Estonian society today. Consequently, the unemployment fund must also be ready to help people who are not, in classical terms, unemployed but who have been long absent from the labour market for a wide range of reasons. There are certainly people who have been at home in caring for their loved ones. They too need to be provided with services. By the way, the unemployment fund has tried it, and quite successfully. This certainly does not help everyone, but some people could be helped, especially those whose loved ones are able to hire a sidekick. The unemployment fund has also come to the aid of finding a carer. I am also talking about the other extreme: there are very many people in Estonia who do not work because of addiction disorders. Helping these people to work is a very important objective, which extends the field of work of the unemployment fund a great deal. And the third big block I'm coming to introduce tomorrow to one opposition party is people who are on disability pension and who are part of their capacity to work. I would also like to talk about this and receive the support of the whole Parliament for a reform that will help these people find a job. They must also have a real opportunity to participate in the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U53	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U54	Honourable Minister of Social Affairs! First of all, many thanks for the answers, but I understood that unfortunately, support for young people is very project-based. However, there is no systematic action plan for the government. We are talking about social guarantees for young people in the European Union. Countries that use their own money, with the support of the European Union, have committed that every young person will be dealt with within four months and no one will be left out. But as you stated, in fact, there are only 40% of those who turn to the unemployment fund. Thus, 60% of these services could be lost. If there were a national programme and a system of dealing with every young person who is not in employment or studying, including those who are not in the unemployment fund, progress would be easier. Do you think such a programme is necessary and, if so, when could it come to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U55	For the sake of time savings, I did not start reading all active labour market measures that work continuously and are included in the annual national programme, but they do. And there are actually many of them, the choice is much greater than any measure, even if it is a Youth Guarantee. There will also be a Youth Guarantee in Estonia, but Estonia will do much more and do much better. When we look at the countries where the Youth Guarantee is most widely spoken, unemployment is largely on the rise. Unemployment among young people is falling in Estonia. Why is that? One reason, of course, is that we do more. Our luxury in a sense is our small size, which enables us to offer a more individual approach to every young person who comes to the unemployment fund. What is the biggest problem with the Youth Guarantee in general? The Youth Guarantee is as if effective when a young person gets a job. However, the Youth Guarantee must not be merely declaratory. A number of social and labour ministers have also drawn attention to this. When we endorsed this measure together, a number of ministers stressed it, I among them. It is not the case that if we offer any kind of work, the problem is solved. Suppose the young lady with very good mathematical expectations finishes the Tallinn Real School. Okay, this is actually a bad example, because very few of the graduates of Tallinn Real School have a chance of becoming unemployed. However, let's assume that a young woman like this is going to graduate from Tallinn Real School and if she goes to any work that is not best suited to her abilities, she is going to do a simple job, which she will definitely be able to do, is that a solution for her personally or not? If we take the Youth Guarantee from the point of view of the program, you can cross it down there. A person went somewhere to do something for four months, but whether he stays there, whether or not it gives him professional satisfaction, whether or not it brings bread to his family on the table. Perhaps the young woman should also go to a university where 100 percent of graduates in real school are practically going, and that's the question. In Estonia, we look at each young person personally and try to find the solution best suited to each young person's abilities. I hope that we will be able to do this much faster than four months of the Youth Guarantee measure, and I hope that we will be able to do it much more effectively than just cross down that we got a person off the line. This is the substantive difference between Estonia's approach and the overall Youth Guarantee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U56	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U57	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I was looking at the unemployment fund statistics last week, and I want to make a correction to one fact. Before the crisis, the peak number of people in Estonia was occupied: just over 660000 people. Then came a fall, the number of unemployed was at some time about 137,000. Indeed, employment has grown a lot lately from this lower point, but it is not 10,000 but 35,000 that we are currently separated from this peak. But the question is different. One person in South Estonia asked if there were unemployed people in your family, including young people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U58	If you take my wife and child as my family, perhaps in the narrowest sense of the family, it is not. If you take those people that I think are close to more widely, there has been one among them. But they've found a job. So this subject is definitely not a stranger to me. However, coming to the first part of your question, no, I was not wrong with the figures. I'm rarely wrong in numbers. What was the inaccuracies? You spoke in parallel about the number of people employed and the number of unemployed. Their total amount is not constant. I was trying to explain that foreign employment must be deducted from the number of people employed in Estonia, and that is what I have done in my calculations. Otherwise, the difference would be much smaller. If we have a busy person, I'll say 10,000 less than the tip of the boom, then the number of unemployed really is more than 10,000 higher. The reason is that some people's status has changed. For example, some of the discouraged have wanted to identify themselves as jobseekers, or those who want to find a job, have gained much more. That's where the difference comes in. But the number of jobs in the Estonian economy is in the order of 10000 less than the peak of the boom.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U59	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U60	Mr. Minister! When unemployed young people leave the world to work from Finland to Australia, where work seems to be enough for them, it will undoubtedly reduce unemployment in Estonia. Is the mass employment of Estonian people abroad part of the targeted action of your coalition government to reduce unemployment, or is it the emigration of your uncontrolled people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U61	The day your party announced its slogan in the local elections, I looked at the latest statistics. I must say that this slogan of yours has proved to me to be a completely unexpected recognition of government policy. The story is that not only unemployment has decreased faster in Estonia than in any other country of the European Union. Moreover, in the last few years since the peak of the crisis, there have been many fewer people going abroad to work than I expected from my gut. Yes, there are, and of course this is a topic that every government, every opposition, must deal with in every parliament. We do not necessarily have to stop those who want to go, but we have to ensure that they also have options in Estonia. That's their decision they're gonna choose. But now a little more than 90,000 more jobs have gained since the economic crisis. I can find the number, if you give me the time, right away, but I'll say in my head that the number of people is between 2000 and 3000 who have moved further to permanent work outside the Estonian state over the last few years. I assumed this number would be much higher. Therefore, I can say with absolute certainty that at least 80000 jobs have been created in the Estonian economy on Estonian soil, and this is an important achievement in my opinion. These are real jobs, they are not behind people who have to do something that reminds them of work when they get paid from the municipal budget. No, these are real jobs that bring bread to the table, give their families confidence.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U62	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U63	Minister, thank you very much. Is it not the case that last year's migration balance was negative by 6 000 people, which is several times greater than the year before the crisis was much closer? But my question concerns this Youth Guarantee. You said nicely that there would be a Youth Guarantee in Estonia. But the whole point of this thing, the key to its effective functioning, as you said, is that this guarantee is a slogan of substance and not just a slogan. The aim is for the different policy pieces to form a whole that guarantees that each young person will receive either further training, better education or a job according to his/her abilities and wishes. In this context, it is precisely coordination that is very important: the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs must work together to achieve this objective. How do you figure this picture's gonna come together? What is this Youth Guarantee in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U64	Just a little bit of a clarification. We're not talking about so many different things here. The balance of migration is certainly a wider issue, where much more needs to be taken into account than permanent employment abroad. This order of magnitude of 2000.3000 indicates how many people in Estonia work abroad more than a few years ago. The difference between these two numbers was two or three thousand. However, as far as the implementation of the Youth Guarantee is concerned, as I said, we are planning to bring this action plan to the government again this year. It must have come out of my answers and our conversation with each other as well as the way I see it. Certainly some fixed-term goals apply also in Estonia, but I consider it far more important than publishing a cross within any guarantee or slogan that those young people who want to find a job find a job that is as capable and satisfying as possible, with the best possible salary, which they are really happy about. This solution is sustainable in the sense that we are simply not pushing these people into some sort of position for a moment, but they are really also creating the potential for some kind of career. It is very important what the young person's first job or the first few jobs are. It may depend on his choice of profession; it may depend very much on it. When we talk as a whole about our interest in having as many value-added jobs as possible in Estonia, where a high wage can also be paid, it is extremely important that the first traineeships and jobs of young people are also those that not only teach work but also enable them to develop in the direction where they have the potential to develop.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U65	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U66	Minister, thank you very much. I am asking about the statistics on youth unemployment. You are lucky that youth unemployment has decreased considerably. I think we'd all be happy if that were the case. For example, if 1,000 young people looking for work go to work abroad, the picture of national statistics is much better. Are we not deceiving ourselves by means of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U67	The figures I was talking about are still much, much bigger than the number of young people who went abroad to work or study or wherever they went. In the Estonian economy, jobs have actually increased a great deal. A young person may now be twice and a half times as sure as a few years ago that he will find a job. The overall economic picture of Estonia has improved considerably. This is where I was asked for a prognosis. I am not much of a forecaster, as I have already said, but I believe that in the coming years we will see a trend towards returning to Estonia. This is what I believe in and for which I am working as a minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U68	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U69	Good minister! We thank the Reform Party for recognising us and saying that it is pleased with Tallinn in its election campaign. This is a pleasant cooperation between the Liberals. My question, however, is much more serious. In fact, we have a lot of young men in Estonia who do not even have a basic education and who do not intend to go to work, while entrepreneurs already want to start bringing in migrant labour. Could the Ministry of Social Affairs plan to apply some kind of force method to include workers in the labour market? Perhaps you should force young men to realize that it is unwise to kill time at a village store with a bottle of beer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U70	First, to the introduction to the question. I like Tallinn very much, I've liked it since I was a kid. I am a fifth-generation tallinian and I hope that my children will also grow up in Tallinn. However, I do not like the way Tallinn is managed. But that's a whole other subject. When it comes to working outsiders and forcing them to work with force, I am not quite sure that these methods are acceptable in our cultural space. As a human, I understand how you feel. In an attempt to reverse this issue, as if it were half-joke, seriously, I say that one group of people that we need not to force to guide but to help with unconventional methods in terms of the labour market are alcohol addicts. There are extremely many among people who cannot find a job. This is a major problem in both Estonia and other societies, and now that we have a very rapid drop in unemployment, it is becoming much more obvious that among those who have not yet found a job, there is a significant number of them, of course, dealing with very different people who do not find a job because they are addicted to alcohol or other pleasures. This is why the unemployment fund must also deal with such issues. I don't think it's reasonable or possible to impose forceful forced labour.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U71	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. My colleague, Helmen Hunt, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U72	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister for Social Affairs, first of all, thank you very much for your reply. But the difference between asking and answering is definitely not a questioner problem, but a questioner problem. If you look at the bill, the total number of registered unemployed people at the end of May was indeed 37789 (the figures are the unemployment fund), in July 34767 people were registered as unemployed. It seems that by numbers, we are fine and have reason to rejoice and even be proud. But what really is it? The Minister also said in his replies that only 40% of young people actually turn to the unemployment fund. Certainly the summer holiday replacement has also given a slightly different state of play and picture when it comes in September and October. After graduating, not everyone's dreams have come true, either to study or to work. Quite a large number of young people are unemployed and are also out of the reach of the unemployment fund. I do not quite agree with the Minister that the Youth Guarantee is just a tick that shows that the person has gone to work, but we do not know what will happen afterwards. The unemployment fund also makes a tick that has gone to work and does not know what happens afterwards. So this comparison doesn't make sense, it doesn't really work. At the same time, the idea of a Youth Guarantee is certainly something else, as it also requires training, learning opportunities, career guidance and all that may help young people find their place in life more easily. The unemployment fund is definitely doing a good job. Here's the thing, he's gonna get more assignments. The unemployment fund also has quite a number of tasks to play in carrying out the reform of determining the capacity to work. Looking at the counties, I have reason to be particularly happy, because Viljandi County is the county of Estonia with the lowest unemployment (3.5%). At the same time, many parents, as well as young people themselves in summer meetings and now in August, have been concerned that the number of people leaving Viljandi County is very high. Unfortunately, this statistics is also about young people leaving. The highest unemployment rates are in Valgamaa (9.8%) and Ida-Virumaa (9.3%). There must be people out there who are leaving. When a young person leaves, the damage is particularly great. It's nice to have him walk away and come back, but it often happens to young people that when they go and see that there are better job opportunities, social guarantees and other supportive measures abroad to raise children, they stay there. On 3 September, the representative delegation of the Finnish Social Democrats visited the Riigikogu and the Social Democratic Party Group. I spoke with both Minister of Education Krista Kiuru and Minister of Health and Social Affairs Susanna Huovinen. Finland is one such good example of a country that is concerned about young people. This concern is based not only on feeling, but on a great deal of social scientists, by the way, also in Estonia and in other European countries, has drawn attention to the fact that young men and girls who fall out of the education system are later causing very serious social and also legal problems. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U73	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U74	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U75	Thank you! Finland is the country that has decided to implement the Youth Guarantee with its financial resources. Within four months, young people who have lost their education will be found and opportunities will be offered to them. Just as social scientists have said, poverty gives birth to poverty, and young people without education are precisely the ones who will not be able to, cannot or will not value education in such a way that their children can better cope and learn more successfully in the future. As a result, there is a request that both the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Education and Research involve young people, youth associations and ask what they need, what they think, in the development of youth employment measures. Young people are very clever and smart. Concerns about boys dropping out of school without comprehensive education have also been expressed by young people. It has been pointed out that girls who reach higher education and degrees often do not find a suitable man. It's not very funny, that's it. I thank the Minister for Social Affairs once again for his reply. Let's see what the numbers are. All of us hope that these numbers are small, not that the opposition hopes that the numbers will be bigger and then we will be very happy. Not at all, on the contrary, we're worried about young people. Anyone who looks at and sees clearly and sums up why young people leave Estonia will understand that one reason is certainly that the work done here does not make it possible to cope. And believe it or not, I have a concrete example of how this communication that young people have to register at the unemployment fund is not enough. For the 9th grade graduates who visited the Riigikogu, it seemed impossible to go and register for them because they had not worked before. So communication is probably particularly important. I wish all of us, both the opposition and the coalition, but above all the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Education and Science, successful budget negotiations. However, there is also a small amount of activity, not only for project-based but also for systemic activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U76	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Many thanks to the Minister for his answers. It is also worth thanking the Minister for the fact that when the Youth Guarantee issue first came to the European Union Affairs Committee, the government was relatively lukewarm about it and tried to make it as thin as possible. Thanks to the Minister for his good cooperation in the European Union Affairs Committee and for the fact that the Ministry of Social Affairs now attaches great importance to this issue. The whole issue of youth unemployment, which began to be dealt with by the European Union years ago, should, of course, be understood much more widely. Youth unemployment is one such simple political thing to sell. In fact, we should, of course, talk about a significantly larger problem, which could be defined in various words, starting with underutilisation, work in an unsuited job, mismatches in skills and labour market needs, lack of activity, which is often due to social problems, as has already been said here. That is why I asked the Minister what the overall vision of the Youth Guarantee is, so that not only is it discussed how the unemployed young person should be brought to the unemployment fund, but how to ensure that the young person does not become unemployed at all. The fact that a young person can have a job that really responds to his or her abilities and wishes requires, of course, much more extensive action, the coordination of the activities of the ministries. I will highlight three main aspects that I see in this problem in Estonia. First, the end of education. In Estonia, 11% of young people aged 18 to 24 have either basic education or even less education. In different estimates, the cost of having so many of these people is 50 to 60 million euros a year for the Estonian state. It should be noted that in the last ten years, in the first decade of the 2000s, the number of jobs requiring basic education decreased by around 20%, while in the next decade it will fall by another 20%. So the trend is clearly that these people are all losers in the labour market. Therefore, we should think very seriously about whether in the 21st century, the Republic of Estonia and throughout Europe, a nine-class education is really something that can be done properly in life. The second issue, which is very important, concerns traineeships and a little more vocational education. With the support of the European Union, the Ministry of Social Affairs has launched a very nice first job programme. In fact, the Ministry of Education should, of course, in parallel do much stronger work in the area of the provision of traineeships within the education system. The new VET Act has been adopted and entered into force. However, if we take those parts that deal with practice, nothing has really changed. Employers are mostly not interested in recruiting trainees, as they are not financially supported in any way from the state budget. Most Estonian companies are small enough, up to ten employees, and entrepreneurs say that what I need this person for if I have to train it myself. This is partly a problem for other levels of education, also in higher education, but I think it is one of the most serious in vocational education. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U78	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U79	The last important question is that, in addition to those young people who are unemployed, whether they are actively unemployed or not in the unemployment fund, there are also people who are inactive for other reasons, who are not looking for a job, so-called NEET young people who are not in school, work or further education. The latest are 17% of 15- to 24-year-olds in Estonia. This is one of the problems that should certainly be resolved much more seriously in the future. If we take youth unemployment narrowly, 2015 will run out of youth unemployment in Estonia, because more people will retire from the labour market from this year than they will enter the labour market. All the more so, however, it is important to bring every able-bodied person into the labour market to work. And here NEET young people are certainly one of the key issues. In our country, where most registers are electronic, there is no substantive problem or reason why a proper monitoring network could not be set up, from which we could easily and quickly catch those young people who are not going anywhere after the completion of compulsory education. It is very easy to organise this through a local social worker who, for example, three months after completing the ninth grade, either from the register of the tax office, the unemployment fund or the educational register, can obtain information on whether the person has gone on to study or has gone to work, whether he is a taxpayer or not, or whether he is an account of the unemployment fund. If he's not in any of these records, that person will be lost to us somewhere. In such a case, the social worker would be able to go quickly and knock on the door and ask where the person is and what he is doing. It may be possible to provide him with help, direct him to the unemployment fund and solve problems arising from long-term inactivity at an early stage. Young people who have been inactive for years are very difficult to get back into the labour market, as they often also have important social problems. I think this would be one of our e-governance's very capable and sensible undertakings. I hope that when developing youth employment measures, the Ministry of Social Affairs will take into account the various stakeholders, and I believe that this debate could also be brought to the Committee on Social Affairs. We could also ask for the opinion of the political groups. Our group has been working on this problem for a very long time and we are happy to contribute. The Minister of Social Affairs can take all the laurels, but let's make a good system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U80	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U81	Thank you, Madam President. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U82	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U83	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! I am always pleased to be able to express my solidarity with your views, although today this solidarity is somewhat parallel in nature. You do not like how the most successful Estonian government, or Tallinn, is managed, I do not like how the Estonian state is managed. I communicate with a lot of young people. Three weeks ago, in mid-August, I was in a youth camp near Otepää. Forty graduates of next year had been invited. The day before I got there, there was an application. It turned out that 32 out of 40 had already chosen a future study place outside Estonia. This does not mean that eight others choose an Estonian higher education institution; they are still thinking. This is where the youth exodus comes from. Indeed, few of those who are already studying elsewhere will return, usually those whose family has a business that hopes to be seen as future leaders. I think you'll understand that these were Russian-speaking young people, Russian-school graduates next year. But I could also talk about Narva Estonian Gymnasium, because all youth unemployment problems start at school. What's going on? In Narva, there have been many years, the last twenty years being School No. 2 Estonian Upper Secondary School. There's never been a risk that it'll be shut down. Your colleague from the government, the Minister of Education, reports to the city of Narva to hand over the high school building to the Ministry of Education. We would be happy to do so, but the future plan foresees that this school will be connected to the basic school of the Old Town, which means that after that Estonian upper secondary school there will no longer be a comprehensive school part, there will be a immersion in the language. It is understandable that these children, whose native language is Estonian, lose a great deal and then go into action. All of this starts at school level, and that's why in some regions everyone gets away, and not only at school level, but also at vocational school level. I have a close relative, a young woman who once graduated from Tallinn Medical School. When I was able to meet him where he is now living outside Estonia, he had a friend in the village. This was the last girl in the group who still worked in Estonia. Everyone else had gone to Finland, Sweden, Ireland or England. That's how the country runs dry. In order to slow down this move in the future, there is a need to make sense of the policy that the government, to which you belong, is currently pursuing in Estonia. I didn't ask you in vain how many unemployed people are in your family. People usually think that if you haven't had it yourself, you don't know what the problem is. I am in every place where I meet the people and where sooner or later we will talk about why the economy and the labour market are in such a bad situation, asked to raise hands and show with fingers how many close relatives have left and are working outside Estonia. The record was a year and a half ago in Sillamäe, where there were 23 people who lifted 37 fingers in total. That's something completely crazy! It all starts with education, it starts with the crap we see every day, and then it's reflected in the fact that one point of the exam is passed. Which way are we going, anyway? How is it possible to have such a surreal plot that in the city of Narva, the youth organisation of the Centre Party is involved in collecting signatures for the protection of the Narva Estonian Gymnasium? Why don't you guys, I mean the government, do this? Why aren't you thinking at all? Of course, everyone should think about it, but at least the Estonians, why don't you think about them? Narva residents, 97% of whom are Russian-speaking people, signed 700 signatures in one day, plus 600 signatures online. These signatures will be handed over to the representative of the Ministry of Education, who will come to Narva on Friday to discuss with the angry parents of students at the Estonian upper secondary school. How can it be that, after everything your government has done with the Russian-language gymnasium and the Russian-speaking school, people have enough understanding to say their word for the protection of the Narva Estonian Gymnasium, and you do not have that understanding? Does anyone really think that young people are just going away because it's better elsewhere, it's prettier? They're leaving because they just don't have a choice. The format of this option depends directly on you. You are saying that unemployment among young people has suddenly fallen exponentially, that it is lower than on average in Europe. You see, yes, in Spain youth unemployment is officially higher than ours, but somehow those who have been to Spain have not been to me, but people who have been to say that there are often very many people coming from Estonia. Show me the finger of one Spaniard who has run away to Estonia for unemployment! All these percentage stories are for the poor. So youth unemployment is and will remain as long as you do not change your attitude towards the education system and every person living here in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U84	Please, Mr Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U85	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm still coming to this remote control, driven by the discussion that has occurred in the hall, I'm not making things up at home, I'm not making things up. Today's debate on youth unemployment is very exciting. I came here on the remote, I dared to come here on the remote because today I can express my personal opinion. As a practicing entrepreneur in the sense that I have not eliminated my companies after coming to the Riigikogu, but they continue to act under the leadership of good CEOs, I dare to say that the problem we are dealing with now is like a very well-divided sword, but it has uglyly two blades. An increasing number of entrepreneurs who create added value through hand-to-hand activity are experiencing the problem of no workforce. I can confirm that because I have also experienced it on my own skin. For the simple reason that our higher education system produces engineers who, when they come to work, could forget about the higher education they went to and, if there is brain power, really start learning the things that are needed. Not to mention simple jobs, which still require that the human hand does not shake at 11 o'clock and that it is able to make some kind of sewing, such as in the metalworking industry, straight. There's a huge shortage of people like that right now. These people can be brought back from Finland. These people have been brought back from Finland and Sweden. The cost of this return is, in fact, what could be considered a decent salary in a Member State of the European Union. After all, I would like the people we bring back to be younger people who return are usually 30+. But to tell a young engineer that his work involves responsibility, that if he does something wrong in the drawing, this product, which is most likely not to be installed in Estonia, will not work, and the mistake that has been made will lead to economic damage And then, quickly, they go on looking for new challenges that don't have to be held accountable. As far as easier workers are concerned, I think we can get these young men from behind the shop who have not had the opportunity to start a family with their girlfriend for a long time now, in many areas of Estonia, have become a problem because the girls have gone away, but the boys without basic education have left behind the shop to collect beer. When I asked a question to the Minister, he felt I was kidding, but I wasn't kidding. For the simple reason that these young people are people they are close to, the family has not been able to force them to graduate from primary school. They have not been able to cultivate work habits in these young people, but in fact they are physically completely normal, or they could work. Now the question arises as to how to bring these people out of this situation. I am not going to give examples of names here, but I can take interested parties to meet people who I dare to read in this category and who cannot, cannot and do not want to enter the labour market normally, because they think they do not need it. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U86	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U87	Thank you. There's been this mistake somewhere. Mr Ossinovski said very cleverly that in 2015 we will have a situation where there will be serious disproportion between those entering the labour market and those leaving the labour market. Businesses then come to this question: on the one hand, people's employment in our labour market is not at all good, and on the other hand, we need to start thinking seriously about where to bring the necessary workers. Do they come from Pakistan or Ukraine or Moldova from anywhere? Not everyone can make a Skype, some have to weld, some have to repair railcars, build ships or something else that can be sold to somebody. Skype's can also be sold, but only five or six serious IT guys will benefit from it, and not all the rest will benefit very much. The final production packaged as a result of manual activity, which can be sold out of Estonia, requires a higher-quality labour force than average, although in fact we can still call this work a simple job. This workforce exists in Estonia in a sense, but it does not participate in the labour market because there is no forced mechanism to place it there. And since there is no coercive mechanism, after a while, we will have a serious need to bring in migrant workers. Is that a good solution? This may be the solution, but let's just say that the politician who is taking up the topic of migrant labour in Estonia is putting the gallows on himself. Frankly and frankly, something is quite wrong somewhere, however, because even in the most booming boomtime we had 1 9,000 unemployed. When a man who could stand up this morning was able to hold a bell, he was a builder, and we had 19,000 unemployed at that time! I'm sorry to break it to you, but these 19,000 people are probably the work repulsors who never intend to move anything. Whether these people are young or old, I don't know, but I'm afraid there's still very little work practice among young people. For this reason, I think that perhaps the most fundamental task would be to give, as they say, a hick to the back of the head, which would make an 18-year-old think that he has 70 years to live and that something could be done during that time. I feel sorry for young women, once again, for examples of life that even have children with these men. I am mainly talking about men because I have companies where men work more because there is hard physical work to be done. But it's all pretty big porridge and cabbages for me. I say honestly and frankly that there is very little policy here, more humanity would be needed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U88	Members of the Riigikogu Marika Tuus-Laul, Heimar Lenk, Peeter Võsa, Priit Toobal, Aadu Must, Viktor Vassiliev, Ester Tuiksoo and Mailis Reps on 4 June s. a. The order of business is the order of business (No 345). Marika Tuus-Lauli, colleague of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In the spring, we asked the Minister for Social Affairs about the length of the waiting lists, as this is indeed an extremely acute question. Waiting times, treatment queues have been getting longer and longer, as shown by the Ministry of Social Affairs' own research. Waiting times are often 90 days, 100 days, but there have been, for example, queues that are 213 days long. We're talking about outpatient specialist care queues. One reason we know, it is probably a lack of money, there is not as much money as it should be. Secondly, there is, of course, a shortage of staff, a shortage of doctors. The University of Tartu published a study that predicts how the number of doctors will decrease further in the future. The year 2032 is indicated. In the worst case scenario, the number of doctors may fall from the current 4500 to 2500 by this year. Of course, the authors of the study also proposed options for improving this situation, how much more university students should be increased, the number of medical students. We have a number of questions. We would like to know why these waiting times are still so long and exceed the length set by the Health Insurance Fund's own Council decision, which is six weeks. The minister is at the head of the council. Why are these queues not final, but we still have queues, because the new queues are not open? There are a lot of problems here. I repeat, it's gotten worse and worse. So we're waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U90	I would like to ask the honourable Minister for Social Affairs to speak once again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to your inquiry into the order of treatment. The first question: 'The authors of the study carried out at the University of Tartu state that, in order to keep the number of doctors at the current level, the admission of medical students should continue to grow to 200 per year. As a minister, how do you view this idea, and do you see a solution to the problem? ' I'm very positive about the idea. We have recently increased and we intend to continue to increase reception at both the University of Tartu and Tallinn and Tartu Medical College. The Ministry has also raised this issue with its partners in a cooperation agreement on good health will and has reached a consensus that maintaining the number of health professionals is one of the priority areas for health. The partners of the cooperation agreement are the University of Tartu and the University of Tartu and Tallinn. It is not quite accurate that things have only gotten worse in Estonia, but we will put it on your usual rhetoric account. Let's look at the number of doctors in the last few years. For example, in 2008, there were 33.3 doctors per 10000 inhabitants, while in 2011 there were already 33.38 doctors. But that doesn't mean that the subject is no priority for us. I'm just pointing out that statements like this is always getting worse come across your lips a little too easily. Due to the analysis referred to in your inquiry, prepared by Raul-Allan Kiivet, Helle Visk and Toomas Asser, in August we proposed that the Minister of Education and Research plan the total volume of basic education for doctors, nurses and midwives from year to year. In basic medical education, there would be 160, 176 students next year and 200 by 2018. In Tallinn Health Care College and Tartu Health Care College, there would be 360 students in the nurse's basic education next year and 46 in the midwife's education, and these figures would also grow gradually. In addition to increasing the admission of health professionals, of course, we also pay attention to the fact that, for many reasons, some doctors and nurses do not work in the health sector. In order to bring them back or at least offer them such an opportunity, we have created the 'Doctors Back to Health' project, which was launched in 2013. Initially, the project only covers doctors, but in 2014 we want to include nurses in addition to doctors. I must say that in 2013, the number of requests significantly exceeded our expectations and we increased our reception. There's been plenty of talk about it in the public. I am very pleased that there are many who wish to continue to apply their medical education as a doctor. This project is carried out by the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Tartu and we finance it from the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs. In the past, almost 40 healthcare workers have already been brought back to the health sector in the framework of a project funded by the European Union. These are fully tangible advances. Certainly bringing doctors back is also a cheaper solution for society than training only new doctors, because we have to consider that training new doctors takes much more time, it is more costly. If we can bring doctors and nurses back to the health sector, it is certainly very positive for us. The second question: 'Why do waiting times exceed the maximum length of the treatment queues established by the decision of the Board of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund? " The answer is that, as the Health Insurance Fund's analysis shows, there are many reasons for long periods of treatment. There is also one member from your group on the Health Insurance Board; he can present these issues to your group in greater detail. At the last meeting of the Health Insurance Board, the issue of treatment queues was discussed separately. This is one of the most important issues for the Health Insurance Fund. There are a few things worth watching. Very often, the reason for the long queue is that the patient wishes to go to a specific doctor and is therefore prepared to wait a little longer. Unfortunately, it is also the case that 10 to 15% of patients who have closed the waiting list do not show up when the reception time is reached. They may have their reasons for doing so, but it is provided by the health care provider or hospital or by anyone in cooperation with patients. One week or two days before the reception, you can contact the patient and ask if he is still coming. There may be objective reasons why people really can't come to the reception sometimes, but it's very important to know that someone else can go instead. Each such "empty visit" extends the queue for others. But, of course, we also have the opportunity to make changes in the organisation of hospital work, the promotion of outpatient and day care and the strengthening of cooperation with family doctors are just two very important keywords that I want to emphasise here. The third question: 'The patient often finds himself in a situation where it is not possible to place yourself on the waiting list when calling the hospital's reception desk, but the reception is said to call back after a while. Why are queues practiced, and how long can the actual treatment queues be for a dermatologist, for example? 'The patient's waiting list must be guaranteed at the health care provider's place of business and at the healthcare provider's desk by telephone, e-mail or internet on all working days between 9 a.m. and 17 p.m. That's the rule. The health care provider is obliged to register the requests for treatment received during the period, regardless of the length of the treatment queue and any other circumstances, at the time of the first call. Under the current arrangements, there should be no queues. If they are, then the health care facility is wrong to the rules. The Health Insurance Fund and the Health Board are responsible for supervising the maintenance of the order of treatment. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, this is a violation of the rule and such a complaint should be contacted either by the Health Insurance Fund or by the Health Board. It is also important that patients should be aware. I would also like to stress here that there is a free choice in Estonia, which doctor to see, which service provider to visit. Treatment queues vary widely between health care providers. You specifically asked about the dermatologist. On 2 September, when we checked the situation when we prepared the answer to the inquiry, the Internet environment of West Tallinn Central Hospital, for example, had time to close by October 9, 10, 11 and 14. What else do we want to do in this area? I think it is certainly important if we can launch a digital registration office, which is one of the major initiatives of eHealth, and launch it in such a way that hospitals and healthcare providers open their own registration environment for the patient as well. This in itself does not shorten the order, but if the patient sees in an instant which hospital in Tallinn this choice is even greater than the length of the queue, he can immediately make a choice and go where the queue is shortest. A sort of paradox that we may be forced to accept, and I am not saying that this is necessarily bad, is that queues for a specialist visit tend to be much shorter in general hospitals, or county centres, than they are in Tallinn and Tartu, for example. It's a kind of paradoxical observation. The Health Insurance Fund, of course, monitors all these queues by hospital and specialty. As I said, a member of the Health Insurance Board from your group is certainly prepared to share these results with you. If you think it's necessary for someone on the board of the Health Insurance Fund to do this, or even myself personally, then of course we're ready to do it too. Question 4: 'The quality of medical care is maintained at the cost of the doctors' overload. What concrete steps is the Ministry of Social Affairs planning to take to reduce the workload of specialised doctors? ' First of all, I must stress that the workload is actually a matter of agreement between doctors and health care providers, but the ministry is, in a way, related to the subject. For example, a close cooperation between a specialist and a family doctor helps to reduce the workload of specialised doctors in order to closely coordinate referrals, to avoid unwarranted referrals, as well as a family doctor's helpline, which has started to function quite well. This section of the collective agreement, which extends the working time of a specialist doctor and a nurse to one patient within a single appointment, also contributes here. These are things that will certainly reduce the burden. Question 5: "What is the Ministry planning to do to ensure that everyone in need has a timely reception with a specialist? ' You know, I have a pretty long list, but I'm going to read you a few points, because I can see that my time is beginning to run out. In order to improve access to health services, we have set out to find ways to see a family doctor even during the evening and at the weekend, in order to reduce the number of visits to the emergency department. I believe that setting up health centres here could also be a step forward. Secondly, it is of course helpful to ensure timely help when a patient first comes to a family doctor. As practice has shown, the family doctor and the family nurse can solve most of the problems. In general medical care, patients with acute health problems should be provided with an appointment on the day of the visit, in other cases within five working days. Thirdly, family doctors have been offered the possibility of e-consultation to support cooperation between general and specialist doctors. Fourthly, when making an appointment for a specialist, you should definitely ask for time from several health care providers, if possible. I think that this particular example, which you asked about, clearly shows that the queues within a single settlement can also be very different. In order for this to work better, we would certainly like to apply the digital registration office. It is also important to know that even if a family doctor has written the name of a doctor or health care institution on a referral, you can still ask for admission time from other health care providers. The patient can go to treatment with any member of the health insurance fund from all over Estonia. This is important knowledge, and we must help to bring this knowledge to the people. Leaving this list limited due to the lack of time, I would like to emphasise once again the full implementation of the digital registration office already mentioned. This will provide an opportunity to get a full overview of referrals and also reception times in all treatment facilities. Then the patient does not have to call the hospitals one by one, but gets a doctor's appointment as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U92	Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. Let's continue with the questions. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U93	Thank you. You have pointed out here that there are more and more doctors, that there were 33 doctors per 10,000 inhabitants in 2008 and 33.8 in 2011. At the same time, you yourself said that it is by register, not everyone works in the health sector. So that example didn't make any sense. You said the queues still haven't been extended. I'm asking why you think so, if yours, a study by the Ministry of Social Affairs, shows that 22% of people were expecting access to the doctor for at least two months last year, which is a third more than a year earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U94	Thank you. No, I was talking about doctors working as doctors, not on the record. But, as I said, the Health Insurance Fund deals very intensively with the length of the queues. There is no doubt that long queues play a role in the organisation of the work of healthcare providers, but it is also important that patients want to go to a particular doctor in a particular profession and in a particular institution and are ready to wait longer, even though the second hospital might be much faster. We cannot blame them, just in statistics we have to consider that there is such a nuance. The Health Insurance Fund has a very detailed overview of which queues, as in many cases, consist of whether the queue depends on the ability of the health care provider, the overload of specific specialties, maybe the absence of a specific specialist at some county centre hospital, or is influenced by the patient's own wishes or by some other reason. And it is quite well known that every particular matter is being dealt with. Although medical queues are not non-existent in any European country, this is a harsh reality, and there are a number of countries where queues are much longer than we do, access to healthcare is in any case extremely important, especially in the case of outpatient visits. Of course, treatment opportunities are much better when a person gets an appointment quickly. I would like to stress once again that the most logical first contact we have made with the doctor, the first level. In order to be able to meet the family doctor as soon as possible, the Health Insurance Fund will also fund another family nurse from this year. If another family nurse is hired in a medical practice, the number of receptions can be increased and patients can get to a doctor or nurse much faster, whichever is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U95	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U96	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! There's been a bit of a logic error in what you're saying. You said that the person must receive their health care services from the place of residence, and at the same time you recommend that he or she travels from Tallinn to Paide, where the queue is shorter. But that's it. You spoke of a very interesting problem, the so-called queue. It is the case that, according to the rules in force, probably a ministerial decree determines how long the order of one or the other service may be. People start calling on Monday morning, and half the day is full for three months. But how long the order could be for those who didn't get hit, who didn't fit in there, nobody knows, because hospitals don't dare write these people down. Why don't you write these people down, don't you dare or don't you care about the real situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U97	Thank you. We discussed this with you last working day, Friday, and, if I remember correctly, we made all the decisions in the Health Insurance Board in consensus. I think that we, as members of the Health Insurance Fund's board, are both vitally interested in dealing with the shortening of queues at the Health Insurance Fund just as it is right. Secondly, you put a little bit of a "little" in my mouth, maybe a little bit of a quote. I certainly have not said that the people of Tallinn should go to Paide to see a specialist doctor. However, I said that in cities and especially in Tallinn, where the queues are relatively long, the patient has a choice. Depends on the specialty, but there are three major hospitals in Tallinn and there are specializations in all three, and there are specializations in two. The patient has a free choice as to which of them he goes, and he can ask for all three times. The Health Insurance Fund also has contractual partners among private health care providers. At the same time, Paides, which you mentioned, where there is no such choice in the county, is one of the major health care providers, Järvamaa Hospital, the problem of queues is smaller, the patient does not have to wait there as long as Tallinn does not have to wait. That's what you saw in the presentation of the Health Insurance Fund, I believe, quite convincingly. Therefore, my message to the patients of Tallinn, and as well as our knowledgeable people, we should all pass it on to our acquaintances, is that any hospital in this city can be chosen in Tallinn. In fact, you can also choose a hospital located outside Tallinn if the summer home is in Paide, for example. However, it is possible to talk more quickly about some of the treatments in your city, and that is the choice of whether you want to go to a particular hospital or go to another where you can get to faster. Regardless of what the consignment note says.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U98	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you for a very convincing review. However, I would like to ask a very practical question from you as a young parent. Before the start of the school year, you have certainly noticed the concerns of parents, and it has also been said in the media that a child must visit a number of doctors before school. However, if parents try to put a child in line with an ophthalmologist in May-June, for example, it is not possible to get a doctor's appointment before school. At this point, there is no point in encouraging them to go to a number of treatment facilities; this is not possible; these are simply not the times. What do you suggest as a minister? It is not a matter of life or death, but in the case of an ophthalmologist, for example, it is a serious organisational issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U100	Thank you. The ophthalmologist is a very good example in this sense that East Tallinn Central Hospital has a very strong eye department where surgical solutions are offered up to really absolute excellence etc. However, outpatient visits really have to wait a long time. An ophthalmologist is one of those who do not need a referral from a family doctor. The Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs do well to think very carefully, and that is certainly what they are doing, is it really right that you do not need a referral letter to go to an eye doctor at all and that you also go there for symptoms that can actually be resolved by a family doctor or even by a pharmacy? I can give you an example of how, in the case of simple eye inflammation, the pharmacist can give very high-quality advice and tell you what drops are needed. I'd like to rush to the ophthalmologist right away, but it would actually make a line there, and maybe it would be a waste of ophthalmologist time for nothing. Well, the resources are always limited, including the resources of the ophthalmologists. Therefore, we need to think carefully about whether we need to get there without a referral letter. Perhaps it would be a lot faster if the family doctor first took a look and, in most cases, solved the problems. A separate issue is that making all kinds of medical certificates is not only a burden on patients but also on doctors. We have thought about this very seriously, and we already have a plan to standardise medical certificates. This means that if a person needs to check the same health parameters on a number of occasions and has already been to one place, for example, has received a medical certificate for driving licences, but also wishes to obtain, for example, a boat driving licence or, for my sake, a weapons licence, where people have to ask doctors for medical certificates, there is a great deal, then these parts are standardised from the medical certificate and the person does not have to run all the doctors again. This is also one of the places where people can make considerable savings in both time and medical resources. These are topics that we have on a daily basis. We'll see where there's room for improvement. I'm sure we're working on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U101	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U102	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You were talking about training young doctors. Really, it's a long and hard road. We see that those who have learned go to work in Finland and Sweden, such a small game is in this respect. Life shows that doctors in Ukraine, Moldova and Russia would like to come to work for us, but the big problem is, of course, language skills. Perhaps it makes sense to think that we are making a state-level programme where we take up the preparation so that they can communicate freely in Estonian? As a minister, how do you feel about having medical staff from a third country coming to work for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U103	Thank you. Yes, doctors come to work in Estonia and, by the way, come from Finland, which is perhaps somewhat unexpected. In your country, it is very important that doctors come from third countries in the European Union and, in addition to the issue of language, the issue of recognition of qualifications is also important. As far as we have discussed this together, for example during the visit to the Ida-Viru Central Hospital, I think there is nothing wrong with this, if the people who come to Estonia are competent to do this work. We must be sure that their qualifications correspond to what we expect of the Estonian doctor. If they can be supported through any project, in fact, we already have a range of labour market measures that allow language learning, a certain level of professional attainment, etc., we could, of course, do so. I do not see anything scary about it if one of the doctors coming to work in Estonia comes from Russia, Ukraine or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U104	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. I'm opening negotiations and I'm gonna ask you to speak to Marika Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U105	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We submitted this inquiry on the length of the doctor's queues in the spring. I've been watching these lengths all summer, and I'll be honest with you, the answers we got today were pretty far away from me. The Health Insurance Board has laid down in its regulation a maximum of six weeks, 42 days, for outpatient specialist care. The president of the same council of the Health Insurance Fund is Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas himself. But what is the length of these queues, in fact? I'm gonna run a little analysis and read it to you. For example, in PERH or North-Estonian Regional Hospital, there were 92 days in order to see a dermatologist in May. It is not much longer now, it is 95 days, but I would stress that it is more than twice as long as it is allowed. It's a shocking surprise! East-Tallinn Central Hospital had a 58-day line of dermatologists in May. Believe it or not, this is the order of 154 days. This data was taken a few days ago. So the waiting time is nearly four times as long as promised. We do not receive an answer from the Minister as to why this is the case. The order of the nose, ear and throat doctor, or LOR doctor, for example, is really slightly reduced in PERH, the corn was 90 days, now 74, but it is still much longer than the regulation allows. I also observed the order of the ophthalmologist. In July, for example, it was 71 days at the University of Tartu Hospital, 213 days at the Ida-Viru Central Hospital, a queue of over five months, incredible, in Tallinn Children's Hospital 91 days. Orthopaedic access is available at the University of Tartu Hospital in 91 days, North Estonia Regional Hospital in 101 days. There's a waiting list for a rheumatologist at PERH for 108 days. But people have the disease today. This is how we see how we interpret and misinterpret the deadlines set by ourselves in many different ways and do not comply with them. What does a long waiting period mean for a cancer patient, for example? It's been here for two months. It's a very, very long time for him. After all, any delayed treatment is much more expensive for the state. The first loser is, of course, a patient. The chairman of the board of the Health Insurance Fund, Tanel Ross, has said that our aim is to change the sequences in principle. We have to figure out a way to show these queues differently. I'm really reading out here that we want to start covering up the queues again, which we're actually doing right now. The minister said it was illegal that we couldn't make the queue as long as it could actually be. I don't know how many more months it would take if the line was five months, and then they say there's no lineing right now. But this is the answer, they say that registration is currently not open. It's normal, it's been like this for years. So this order of queues is a very serious issue. Let me give you an example. Recently, the Voice of the Islands wrote that all the October days were closed to the eye doctor within five minutes. All people who have glaucoma or other very serious problems call and complain that there is no way to get an appointment. So what do we do? Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U106	Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U107	The Minister did not believe that the order of treatment had indeed been extended by a third. The Ministry's own study, carried out in spring, showed that 22% of people waited at least two months to see a specialist last year, i.e. a quarter more than a year earlier. But like I said, a lot of people waited longer. We heard here today about e-health consultations, the e-system and the helpline. We heard many times that you should see a family doctor. But the family physician advises you to go to a specialist and give a referral. We can't solve all the questions with the family doctor. Very good recommendation: There are long queues in Tallinn, go to Võru. I can tell the ophthalmologists that yes, if there is a queue for several months here in Tallinn, the town of Põlva will be able to talk quite quickly. But think about the distance! How does this old person, who's basically dealing with eye diseases, go there? Personally, I've been in close contact with someone who needed a pretty special problem last summer to see a dermatologist. He couldn't go; he couldn't find any dermatologists in Tallinn. Believe it or not, none of the facilities had them, everyone was on vacation. Eventually, I took her to Põlva, and so on through my contacts, and not to the hospital, but to the doctor's home. This is the actual situation. People are charged that people want to go to a particular doctor, that that's what's the problem. This is the case for years. Listen, if you have a doctor who's been planning a treatment for you, who's been treating you for years, who knows your illness, sometimes you haven't seen him, but once you go again, there's a long line, so why should I go to a completely foreign doctor? It makes sense that I'm going to see the same doctor. I've got some serious advice. I don't want to say anything bad to the minister, but I suggest you call me, just pick up the phone tomorrow, not say he's a minister, and try to make time for an ophthalmologist. Look what you're getting. Try to get time for a dermatologist or orthopedic appointment and you will get the right answers. Then you will see that the situation is very, very serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U108	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the honourable Minister for Social Affairs, who also wants to participate in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U109	I would like to highlight a few things. First of all, you gave quite a few examples of Ida-Viru Central Hospital, and you said I was a long way from life. True, Ida-Viru Central Hospital is a very close-to-life chairman of the Board of Ida-Viru Central Hospital, who is your penguin. Ask him. Ask for an explanation of why there are queues! You referred to concrete examples of violations of the rules laid down by the Ministry or the Health Insurance Fund. Ask why, then, the chairman of the board is certainly competent to report. There is no doubt that the Health Insurance Fund and the Health Board also have reason to follow up the reasons for such cases. You also gave examples of hospitals in Tallinn. Among the Soviet leaders of Tallinn hospitals, you also have many acquaintances, as two or three of the four hospitals in Tallinn are known to belong to the city of Tallinn. But it doesn't matter. The important thing is that the appointment of an ophthalmologist and a dermatologist is the topics that we have resolved separately here. In the case of an ophthalmologist, I said that we are seriously considering whether it is necessary to get directly to him with all the symptoms, or whether it would be reasonable to go there through a family doctor and thus significantly shorten the order of the ophthalmologists, as the family doctor is likely to be able to resolve a significant part of these complaints. The second issue concerns the dermatologist. It is not true that there is only one place where a person can contact a dermatologist or that someone must be taken home to a dermatologist through a connection. As a person, I understand that if you take someone home to someone, or if you take someone to someone through a connection, as a minister, I certainly don't approve of getting in line through a connection. It is important to know that there is an increasing number of family doctors all over Estonia who have the necessary equipment to take pictures of birthmarks (you specifically mentioned the suspicions of melanoma). These images are sent in digital form to recognised dermatologists. A person can live in a small place in Estonia, where there is no hospital, where the nearest hospital is perhaps a few decades away. If his family doctor has these devices, this picture will be described by well-known and recognized doctors of Tallinn. This is, for example, a very practical solution that brings people much closer to getting a skin doctor specifically. We need solutions that will shorten the queues and we need to be open here. I certainly don't agree with you talking about digital registration with a little irony. Having access to hospital records and seeing for yourself which days and times there are free times is very good and concise. I think it's definitely patient communication. I am pleased that you raised this issue here, and I believe that it is worth discussing with your groupmates, both a member of the Health Insurance Board and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Ida-Viru Central Hospital on these issues. If then there are still outstanding issues, I am still ready to answer you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U110	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'm gonna finish the negotiations. Normally, according to good practice, the minister is the last in the negotiations, so sometimes follow this. Then maybe the minister would have answered your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U111	Members of the Riigikogu Viktor Vassilyev, Yana Toom, Priit Toobal, Marika Tuus-Laul, Vladimir Velman, Peeter Võsa, Enn Eesmaa, Kalev Kallo, Aadu Must and Mailis Reps have submitted the final question on 19 June. The inquiry is about the financing of the Haabersti Hospital in West Tallinn (No 349). Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U112	Madam President! I'm Viktor Vassilyev, and I'd like to introduce you to this remote question we've presented to Minister Taavi Rõivas. The topic is, of course, already familiar, one could say that even the old-fashioned Tallinn Central Hospital Haabersti Hospital funding. We talked about it here in the spring, and the minister could of course have said that whoever remembers the old thing, the eye out of his head, and that if you can't get to the ophthalmologist, go to the pharmacist and ask for drops. But the subject still stands. We've been talking here about the fact that the Health Insurance Fund hasn't financed all the beds of a nursing hospital. But now there are entirely new circumstances. A loan was granted for the construction of the clinic and financed by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) for EUR 3.1 million, and the government promised the European Union that the clinic would definitely receive funding for its activities. It has now turned out that in addition to the problem of covering beds, the Ministry of Social Affairs has not transferred nearly EUR 700000 to the Haaberst care clinic, which is the money of the European Union project and which the hospital should have received in January this year. The Ministry of Social Affairs has not transferred money to the hospital, because according to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs has not sufficiently controlled the procurement of some projects supported by EU funds. The Head of Public Relations of the Ministry of Social Affairs has once again mentioned that the Ministry of Finance is based on the assumption that if one was wrong, then everyone is a crook, and therefore everyone must be punished. However, no procurement errors have been identified in the care clinic. So the nursing hospital isn't lost. It's not like there's nothing to blame, but they still don't give money. One can say, yes, that our inquiry has been made on 19 June, and from that time on, a lot of water has flowed into the sea on which ministers are resting in the summer. But they are well rested, for the movement has been nothing since then. To prove this, the care hospital today sent a letter to the Council Department of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. Perhaps this has not yet come to the Minister, because in the technological age, e-mails move through these servers, about which Mr Snowden had one bad thing to say, but it will eventually arrive. The letter also mentions that the Ministry of Finance was asked for the first time on April 12, when the money would be received. At the time, the Ministry of Finance replied that things were not in order at the Ministry of Social Affairs and that money would not be collected until things were investigated. As long as they're under investigation, no one knows. In any case, we have asked five questions with this question. Since the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs only rest for one month in the summer, they must have worked hard to provide answers to them, and I hope that we will have answers to five questions. I'm not gonna go over the questions. In general, however, we are most interested in what the chicken is to pluck the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs, which are the contradictions between Minister Ligi and Minister Rõiva, that Liigi is not letting money from the Clothe or what the problem is. We hope to hear the answers to our questions and to get an exhaustive explanation as to why the Ministry of Finance is bullying the Ministry of Social Affairs. Or is it an agreement between the two ministries to bully the people of Tallinn, namely the old and sick people who need care? It is worth remembering here that they are residents of Tallinn, and they can support the Centre Party when they go to vote, but first they are residents of the Republic of Estonia, for whom the Government of the Republic should take the utmost care in the participation of both the Minister of Social Affairs and the Minister of Finance. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U113	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu's speech chair to be answered by Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Although I may have been given multiple choice when I introduced an inquiry, I remain in the question-answer format and answer in my own words. The first question: 'Has, after our previous inquiry in the Riigikogu ('Maintenance out of funding' 11.03.2013), the funding of the Hospital Haabersti Hospital in West Tallinn increased and several existing beds are currently covered by contract? ' Just as the preparation and implementation of the euro project was planned, the agreement includes: 1352 inpatient treatments were planned per year, and that is exactly what the agreement says. In order to specify the cost of a medical case, a care contract was concluded with a total cost of nearly EUR 1.2 million. There are no changes in bedbearing either. For 85% of beds, this is estimated to mean that 100 beds out of 150 are financed by the Health Insurance Fund. I am extremely sorry that, despite repeated attention-raising, the city of Tallinn has not considered it possible to finance care treatment at all. As we know, care treatment is financed from several sources, the health insurance fund is the main one everywhere, but local governments all over Estonia also contribute to it. The city of Tallinn, even though this issue has been discussed in the council and even the relevant proposals have been made to my knowledge, has not, for some reason, considered it necessary to support it. I am still saddened by this, just as it was in reply to your previous questioning of the same substance. The second question: 'According to the 2013 Annual Report of the Health Insurance Fund for the first quarter of 2013, 95% of the funds allocated to care treatment have been used in the quarter of 2013. Will the 5% savings come from the money lost by Haaberst care clinic? ' No, it won't. I think you, as a member of the board of the Health Insurance Fund, know how the budget is planned: not all regions are about to have 100% in-service coverage, but also a certain reserve, which does not mean that this money will not reach service providers and consumers by the end of the year. In order to understand the big picture, I must point out that care funds have increased considerably. If we compare on a year-by-year basis, the care budget increased by 25% this year compared to last year's. This means that over Estonia, 12% more medical managers are covered by the health insurance contract, while the rest of the money went to increase the price of the service, including the salary of carers. If we look at the year before last and compare, for example, with the plan for next year, the Health Insurance Fund financed 1083 beds all over Estonia in the previous year, and in the following year it financed one and a half times as much as 1540. We have a concrete plan on how to reach an even one and a half times the figure of 2237. This largely covers Estonia's need. We know that many municipalities, unlike Tallinn, also contribute to the care services of their residents. So we've been counting on that, too. Question 3: 'The Ministry of Social Affairs is accused of making errors in the control of procurement by the Ministry of Finance. Do you agree with the criticism from the Ministry of Finance? ' The task of the implementing unit is to verify the compliance of the costs of the projects financed by the grant, including compliance with the requirements of the Public Procurement Act. The quality of checks can be assessed by the Ministry of Finance and they also carry out audits and checks to this end. This is not a contradiction between two ministries and two ministers, as you have tried to show here, but a commitment under the Structural Support Act. Such disputes are, in a sense, inevitable. The Ministry of Social Affairs is arguing about the role we have, that is, because of the role of the implementing unit with the contractual partners. At the same time, looking at the big picture, we are all out for one thing and interested in ensuring that Estonian health care is doing well. Question 4: The lack of 'EUR 700000 hinders the operation of Haaberst care hospital. What solution do you see in your conflict between the Ministry of Social Affairs and Finance, and when specifically could the care clinic receive the EU project money? ' Again: there is no conflict between the two ministries, and there is no reason to look for anything here. I believe that these disbursements will be completed soon enough. We're not talking about the whole range, we're talking about a quarter. Indeed, perhaps there have been problems in one of our quite large measures. Take, for example, Viljandi, where a large care centre was also opened. You know that during the last year we have opened very high-quality modern care centres throughout Estonia. These projects have been all over Estonia and some have also had disputes about the eligibility of some small details. Unfortunately, since we are also using European Union funds here, we must be correct to the level of detail and one, perhaps not at all, of the minor errors associated with the Western Tallinn Central Hospital, which have certainly not been committed knowingly or intentionally, may have the effect that the entire area's resources have been frozen for a certain period. But we are working hard to freeze them open. According to my latest information, this question should be resolved immediately. I really hope I have accurate information. The fifth question: 'The argument that the Ministry of Finance recommends that the clinic should go to court against the Ministry of Social Affairs has been made in Media. Has the Ministry of Finance put pressure on the Ministry of Social Affairs and is the Ministry of Social Affairs planning to sue the Ministry of Finance? ' There were a lot of suggestions here, appeals between the three parties cross-crossed. No, we certainly have no intention of bringing anyone to court on this matter, either the Ministry of Finance or, less so, the care clinic of the Western Tallinn Central Hospital. Once again: there are rules in the use of European taxpayers' money, and it is sometimes more time-consuming and perhaps more troublesome for us than when we make decisions for our taxpayers' money. Therefore, certain frustrations are understandable on this subject. At the same time, I believe that, in the end, we are still very grateful to the European taxpayer for the fact that we have been able to open a lot of care departments or even new care hospitals across Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U115	Minister, there is at least one question for you. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Do you confirm that the Ministry of Social Affairs has promised the Western Tallinn Central Hospital EUR 700000, which has been transferred today? If so, how should this hospital cope financially because it has taken this money into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U117	Thank you. This is not so much about the Ministry's promise as about the approved draft European Union structural funds. As has been said, it is a matter of time and hopefully not very long when this money is fully transferred. However, I must say that, in a very large number of cases, we take investments in the agricultural sector, for example, grants are paid out after very lengthy procedures have been carried out. This gauntlet is also uncomfortable for businesses, for example, when they receive money from the PRIA. Bridge financing is used, which is, of course, cumbersome and perhaps costly. In this sense, I agree with you that the issue of freezing off these instruments must be dealt with intensively and we will also be dealing with it. Luckily, West Tallinn Central Hospital is a very large organization. If it were the case that the clinic was a separate legal entity and they lived only on these revenues, it would be much more problematic, but fortunately the Western Tallinn Central Hospital is a much larger organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U118	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U119	Thank you. Mr Minister, you dispel my most evil doubts when you confirmed that there is no conflict between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance or between two ministers, and two ministries have organised this 700 000-euro hogage hand in hand and in good agreement. The Ministry of Finance claimed that money will be released after an audit at the Ministry of Social Affairs in May this year, and nothing will be decided before that. Would you also enlighten us as to what kind of audit this is at what stage this audit is? Can it be carried out quickly in agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs and given the necessary money to the hospital? When's this gonna happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U120	Thank you. Hand in hand and in agreement, we have been allocated to the Western Tallinn Central Hospital, if I say correctly now, about 3 million, which is not so little. In hand and in agreement, different ministries, municipalities and health service providers have made it possible for hundreds and hundreds of very high-quality care treatment places to be created throughout Estonia during the year. If, in the course of the implementation of this measure, a hospital is wrong, for example, by purchasing construction, unfortunately, it concerns the whole measure. Construction procurement is not the main work of hospitals, and my personal opinion is that hospitals could use them much more, for example, as the help of State Real Estate AS or real estate experts in order to avoid such unnecessary errors in the future. However, the fact that such an error concerns the whole measure is not the plight of anyone, it is the rules that provide for it. I also had to sign a number of claims just before Christmas Eve, quite recently, in which the health sector parties were very much wrong against construction procurement. I really wasn't happy to do this, but if there has been an audit and it has been found that everything has not been done correctly, then in the role of minister, I saw no alternative but to do so. At the same time, we are, of course, looking in parallel for ways in which these institutions can be adequately financed from all possible sources. Since you have raised this issue repeatedly in this Chamber, I have already said, but I will say it again, and I would ask you to pass it on if you should have contacts in, for example, Tallinn City Government or Tallinn City Council: municipalities across Estonia contribute to the availability and quality of care for residents of their city or rural municipality. Tallinn has not done so for some reason that I cannot understand. In my opinion, this is feasible for Tallinn, because we are not talking about financing most of the treatment here, but about a relatively smaller part compared to the health insurance fund. My personal position as a tallinian, as well as as as a person who has lived a large part of his life near the current care clinic and the former Õismäe health centre, is that the city of Tallinn could still find an opportunity to support, just as many other municipalities have found. That would be quite reasonable. The country and the city could work more together here, not just to talk about who's responsible for what and still put it on their shoulders.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U121	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U122	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You will certainly be following your profession quite intently as to how and what you are not making claims about. I was left with a scratch on your rather generalized summary that the hospital is missing a very large amount of money for a complex that all parties have considered very necessary, but it is a large hospital and it has other resources. As a minister, I'm sure you know that these other instruments come at the expense of other things. I hope you didn't quite mean it that way, but in an emergency, you can just cover the needs like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U123	Thank you. No, of course, I did not mean that care should be provided at the expense of active care, inpatient or outpatient visits, for example. Rather, I meant that all new investments, including other construction procurements, which hospitals do with their own resources, are also 'liquidity management' projects. The large hospital has a large turnover and maybe a large loan, but in the case of large turnover, this is not the amount of 700000 which, in terms of liquidity, is insurmountablely manageable. Of course, I didn't mean to take it on account of anything. I'm still positive that the hospital will definitely get the money, and we'll act to make sure the sooner they get the better. But the topic remains, which is the main focus of your questioning, the concern that Tallinn does not participate in co-financing care care, just as most cities do.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U124	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Good colleagues, is there a wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-09_U125	Moving on to the free microphone at full speed. All members of the Riigikogu who wish to register for appearance in a free microphone after the hammer hit. There's no call. Good fellows, the hearing is closed. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 6.37 p.m.
