ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the 12th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Aivar Rahno, representative of the Government of the Republic, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law on motor insurance. In its proceedings, the Government is represented by Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The Government also initiates a draft law amending and implementing the Law on Law Enforcement. In its proceedings, the Government is represented by Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U3	Thank you. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U4	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Five members of the Central Party have an inquiry to report to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and to Minister Juhan Parts on statistics on bribery cases of the Road Register offices. On 17 April 2013, the Defence Police officers detained Jaanus Tammetsi, acting Head of the Traffic Register Narva Office of the Road Administration, a member of the Social Democratic Party, suspected of professional counterfeiting and repeated bribery. A sad fact has become public almost every year through the media that another bribe has been offered or taken somewhere in Estonia in order to pass the driving test at the Road Administration's Traffic Register Office. Since these are frequent bribery cases in the various offices of the Road Administration's Traffic Register, we have the following questions. How has the number of corruption offences in the administration of the Road Administration increased or decreased in the last two years? What has the Ministry done to prevent individuals who have repeatedly been in trouble with the law, such as Jaanus Tammets, a member of the Social Democratic Party, from returning to a position of responsibility where bribery can be taken? What are you going to do to avoid future cases of bribery in the Road Administration's traffic register offices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I have also accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. The following drafts were submitted to the Committee on European Union Affairs on 19 April 2004: Firstly, a draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on information to be transmitted during transfers of funds and a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions and drafts of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 9 May at 4 p.m. Secondly, a draft Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 93 of the EC Treaty and a draft Council Regulation amending Council Regulation (EC) No 994/98 of 7 May 1998 on the application of Articles 92 and 93 of the Treaty establishing the European Community to certain categories of horizontal State aid and Regulation (EC) No 1370/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on public passenger transport services by rail and road. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions and drafts of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 9 May at 4 p.m. Thirdly, a draft directive of the Council of the European Union implementing enhanced cooperation in the area of financial transaction tax. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Monetary Commission to give an opinion on the positions and draft of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. a 2 May at 4 p.m. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. 84 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present; no 17. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote on the agenda for the 12th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one was against or impartial. This week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U6	Let's go to today's questions, there's four of them. The first is an inquiry by Jaan Õunapuu, Indrek Saare, Marianne Mikko, Mart Mere, Kalev Kotkas, Andres Anvelt, Rein Randver, Neeme Suur, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Kalvi Tõm, Eiki Nestor, Kajar Lemberi, Heljo Pikhofi, Jaak Allik and Rannar Vasiliyev of 13 March 2013 to Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, in the interest of the party (No 306). In the name of the heirs, please speak in the chair of Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 13 March this year, 15 Social Democrats submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Justice on the subject of 'infringements for the benefit of the population'. We would like the Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur, to make a clear assessment of cases where individuals with influence have forced people to enter the political party and vote in favour of certain politicians in the face of threats. There is no doubt that Jõgevamaa businessman Paul Kärberg forced his employees to join the IRL and vote in favour of Aivar Koka in elections, using the economic dependence of their subordinates on him. The Penal Code has criminalised forced partying, violation of freedom of election and voting, as well as the purchase of votes. These offences are punishable by up to a year's imprisonment. Unfortunately, criminals may feel secure because it is extremely difficult to collect evidence in such cases and surveillance activities are allowed only when votes are purchased. We are asking the Minister whether it is possible for the investigative bodies to prove that the party is being forced to enter and that there is a violation of the right to vote, or whether surveillance should also be allowed when investigating these offences. The Minister must also state his assessment whether the situation in which an employee enters a political party at the employer's request constitutes an offence within the meaning of the Penal Code. Nor are there rare cases where local government leaders have admitted in a solitary conversation that they joined a coalition party on the condition that different investment grants are granted to the municipality. We therefore expect the Minister to assess the situations in which the municipality receives public investment support, provided that the mayor enters a particular party. We hope for meaningful answers from the Minister. Let's listen!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U8	Thank you very much. I'm asking for the speech chair, Secretary of Justice Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U9	Hello, honourable Riigikogu. I haven't even started to answer yet, but some members of the Riigikogu already have questions. Good to see you! But, honourable heirs, I'm not going to read the question, I'm going to make a brief introduction, and then I'm going to go straight to the questions. The questions are presented in such a way that I, as a minister, can certainly make my own assessment, but only a court can decide whether a particular act was criminal and whether its perpetrators were also guilty in the sense of the Penal Code. But now specific answers. The first question concerns the conclusion of an employment contract under the conditions that the employee enters the party appointed by the employer and whether it constitutes an offence referred to in § 155 of the Penal Code. I read it myself, and I also advise the heirs to read the comments of the Penal Code. They take the view that forcing a party to enter is to influence a person by psychological or physical coercion in order for a person to enter a party. Similarly, the coercion is also understood, for example, in the case of the taking of a hostage in the event of a criminal offence, which is covered by § 135 of the Penal Code, and in the case of a terrorist offence, which is covered by § 237 of the Penal Code. On the basis of these similarities, it is clear that this is not about absolute coercion, but about influencing a person to act against his own will. If a person refuses to obey a coercion, he will miss something very important. Such an important benefit may also be the possibility of obtaining a job without discrimination. In my opinion, it is possible that, depending on the specific circumstances, the conclusion of a contract of employment is conditional upon membership of a political party and may constitute a coercion of membership of a political party within the meaning of § 155 of the Penal Code. However, I would like to point out once again that it is still important to have all the work done and that it is difficult, to say the least, to assess specific cases solely on the basis of the press. The second question: "Is the provision of investment support to the local government at the discretion of the State, provided that the municipality's parent enters the desired party, considered to be an offence referred to in § 2981 of the Penal Code? " This paragraph deals with the trading of power. Trade in influence requires two parties to trade in a third party, i.e. the possible price of influencing an official. The first question, therefore, is who is the alleged user of influence in a particular case, who may influence the State to grant support or at least to claim that it has such influence. The second question is what is the undue remuneration or advantage that a person with actual or expected influence requires or receives. The recipient of the aid, as far as I understand the question, would be the municipality for the example. This would not in itself preclude the application of the composition, since the beneficiary and one of the parties to the exercise of influence need not be the same person. If the influence is exercised by a party or by one of its representatives, it is not quite clear whether the appointment of a parish elder to a party is an asset or any other advantage that the party would then require or receive. The second thing is whether the exercise of influence has taken place illegally. In other words, some law must have prohibited such influence. In summary, it can be said that the crime of exercising influence may not have taken place in this case, which does not mean that forcing a party to join a member of a party to do so is covered by § 155 of the Penal Code, referred to in your first question, if the parish elder is affected to act contrary to his or her will. Question 3: 'Do you think it is possible for investigative bodies to prove that a party is forced to enter and become a member of a party and that there is a violation of the freedom to vote and vote, or that surveillance activities should be allowed to be used in the investigation of these offences? " I can give an estimated answer to this question. I believe that it would be very sensible to look at this subject more widely; it needs a thorough analysis. I would not like to say my point of view as if it were a ministerial position that could not be deviated in the future. On the one hand, the crimes referred to are serious violations of the fundamental principles of civil rights and democracy and, of course, the state must react to such cases. On the other hand, surveillance also constitutes a violation of fundamental rights and the law should not allow this to happen too easily. Given the views of investigative bodies and other law enforcement authorities, the current regulation has been reached, and in the case of certain crimes under the current law, surveillance is indeed not allowed. In both cases of forced partying and violations of electoral freedom, this is a subject subject subject subject to coercion who can testify. Consequently, it is also possible to apprehend forced partyers and voters of electoral freedom on the basis of evidence collected by other means than surveillance activities. In other words, I do not see a direct need at the moment to extend the regulation of surveillance activities to these formations. However, more in-depth analysis in this area is, in itself, entirely appropriate. As far as the Code of Criminal Procedure is concerned, its analysis is currently carried out in cooperation with the University of Tartu from the very point of view of the fundamental rights of individuals. I hope that we will be able to pick the first fruits of this debate by autumn, then perhaps it will be clear whether we are going to review more widely the list provided for in the law as regards surveillance activities. Only in the autumn can there be any assessment of whether the Code of Criminal Procedure needs to be improved in this respect or whether it needs to be reduced or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U10	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U11	Mr. Minister! You said only a court can decide who is guilty, who is not. I wanted to remind you that in the case of your predecessor, Minister Michal, it was always said that the court would decide. In the end, however, it turned out that he had to go before the court decided anything. That's my question. I didn't really understand your performance as to whether this case was currently being investigated. Is there an attempt to find out the details, or has all this buying votes and luring people into the party already stopped at the threat of job loss?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U12	Of course, I will stick to the fact that only the court, no one else, is responsible for justice in the Republic of Estonia. As far as ethical behaviour is concerned, this question does not concern anyone's conviction under the Penal Code. These are completely different categories. To the question of whether or not the procedure is ongoing in a particular case, I am, however, indebted to the answer, I do not know the current state of play.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U13	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U14	Mr. Minister! The case of businessman Kärberg allegedly involves the purchase of votes, as well as the trading of influence and forced partyisation. Workers have claimed that they had to enter the party against their will otherwise they would have lost their jobs. It seems to me that your answers were extremely gentle. Why are you in favour of such a jock scheme that nothing has been proven, you don't know anything? We would expect a more demanding attitude from the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U15	At the very least, the Minister of Justice can comment on the Penal Code, and I did. I said that when we talk about § 155 of the Penal Code, it may be a violation of this section based on the information that the public knows. That is what I said, in particular. Whether or not the infringement finally finds proof is, of course, to be judged by the court, but the presumption is that the prosecutor's office is convinced that it is possible to go to court with such an indictment. If there's not enough evidence to prosecute, the DA's office won't go to court. If the prosecutor's office goes to court, he'll have to stand up for what he says and then the court will be able to judge a specific act.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U16	Thank you. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U17	Minister, thank you very much. I have a slightly broader question, I'm talking about a particular case in an abstract way. Suppose an official who is a member of the opposition party to the ruling city authority works in a city office. In order to continue working in that capacity, he is asked to resign from his political party. It is clear that this is neither legal nor appropriate in a democratic country. How must a person behave in such a situation, and what are the plans of the Ministry of Justice to ensure that people have the right to belong to political organisations? A person has the right to apply to the courts, but of course he does not do so because of the threat of job loss. How could forced partying in general be reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U18	It is natural that any undue influence on the membership or non-membership of a political party in the case of performance of duties is not acceptable. When I recall my area of government in the Ministry of Social Affairs, we did not have a problem recruiting members of opposition parties or unrepresented parties in Parliament. I've already stressed from this remote control that these two things need to be kept separate. If a person works, he or she is expected to be paid a salary for his or her knowledge, not for the party he or she belongs to. If an employer employs a person on other motives, of course he must be able to answer the questions why, for example, this person was preferred in a public competition. Our main objective is, of course, to ensure that the relevant sections of the Penal Code are as clear as possible. As far as ethical beliefs are concerned, whatever the letter of the law is. There is no way to regulate the ethical or unethical behaviour of a person by law. In this respect, people also bear great responsibility for voters who are watching closely whether one party or another party or one politician has not acted improperly. There are certainly higher moral and ethical standards in politics than in normal life. Policy-making at both local and national levels must serve as an example and, of course, unethical actions in this area will receive much more attention and greater societal condemnation. You asked me what else the Justice Department was up to. One of our activities this year is, for example, the new anti-corruption strategy 'Aust State', which also addresses certain ethical principles. I hope that society as a whole will evolve at all times and in cases where people will be asked to join one party or to lose a position with another party, that is the forced partying you talked about, that there will no longer be in Estonia and that people will choose party membership according to their beliefs and beliefs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U19	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U20	Good Minister, your answers were purely legal. I can't tell and I don't want to judge whether the usual person understood all the nuances when he listened to those answers. At the same time, it is clear that local people in fact know how one or the other local government manager has made his or her decisions and whether the promises have been fulfilled. It is known whether investments have come or not. But my question is about surveillance. The purchase of votes is currently covered by surveillance activities, forced partying and the violation of the freedom to vote and vote are not. If you do not support this idea now that it could also be part of surveillance activities, how do you think it is possible to detect these abuses?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U21	I would like to return to the three questions that have been put to me in a very simplified way. As far as § 155 of the Penal Code is concerned, the answer is simple and specific: yes, there may be a composition. With regard to leveraged trade, which is dealt with in § 2981 was very difficult to say. Very difficult to say, given the current case law. Knowing the practice of the Supreme Court in applying § 2981, I am skeptical about this. Once again, there are bilateral rights in the case of surveillance activities. On the one hand, we would like to learn as much as possible, on the other hand, we must take into account that surveillance activities involve a very large amount of interference in a person's privacy. And, as I said, the violation of the right to vote is also clearly evidenced by human testimony. There is a person whose freedom to vote was violated, and if he wants to report it, it is possible to take statements from him. You don't have to use covert surveillance to detect a crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U22	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U23	Good Minister, you started by saying that, just as you can only make your own assessment on this issue, because it is not yet over. So what kind of assessment do you make as a minister of the story that is the basis for your questioning in the big picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U24	I will base my assessment on the Penal Code in force and the knowledge that I and the good people of the Ministry of Justice have. We do not have the investigation file at our disposal, but we can make any kind of assessment on the basis of the material that has been available to us. This estimate was expressed in the word pair'may occur'. We can't say anything until the court has found something. In this respect, I must limit my opinion to an assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U25	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U26	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I will take your last words to the effect that nothing can be said to be certain until the court has found something. Perhaps you can comment on how the kapo in your yearbook dares to make firm assessments without judgment, for many years in a row?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U27	This is a completely different subject, but first of all, the defense police have followed the law in their yearbook. And second of all, he's just made an estimate. Of course, no one can be declared guilty until such a decision has been made by the court. That's how you take the yearbook. But if we take the prosecutions and prosecutions more widely, let's be honest if we want a completely clean trial and absolute observance of the presumption of innocence, then we shouldn't give out any information about the suspect until at least the indictment has been filed against him, but it would be better to have a court ruling. But it's an ideal world. The fact is that if someone is arrested as a suspect and the press hears about it, the information can be released earlier, and then it is really a question of everyone's assessment of whether or not they are condemning someone on the basis of what they have been told to the public. But whether a person can be punished under the Penal Code is up to the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U28	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. Do you want to open negotiations? It is not recommended to open negotiations, so this point is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U29	Let's go to the next question. This is an inquiry by the Riigikogu members Neeme Suur, Andres Anvelt, Kalev Kotkas, Mart Meri, Marianne Mikko, Karel Rüütli, Sven Mikser, Indrek Saare, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Jaan Õunapuu and Kajar Lember on 14 March 2013 regarding the implementation of Riigikogu's decision on "The Developments of Criminal Policy until 2018" (No 307) to the Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur. On behalf of the inquisitors, please perform for Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U30	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The Riigikogu's decision on developments in criminal policy adopted in 2010 is a very specific set of tasks that the Riigikogu has given to the Government of the Republic to carry out. These tasks include the annual review by the Minister of Justice to the Riigikogu. This document on developments in criminal policy is broad-based and contains approximately 21 guidelines and tasks. Unfortunately, the Minister of Justice limited his review of 26 February to a few aspects, with a number of important points not being addressed. It is estimated that 17 of the 21 aspects were not affected. Since the Social Democrats and Democrats are very concerned about the safety of the population and find it very important to prevent and reduce crime, we have made a written request to the Minister of Justice to give him the opportunity to address this issue once again, perhaps in an exhaustive way. Since 17 questions in one question would have been too many, they were drafted as two separate enquiries. As such, they are now on the agenda. We hope that the Minister will provide constructive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U31	Thank you very much. I'm asking for the speech chair, Secretary of Justice Hanno Pevkuri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U32	Thank you. Now we're gonna have an inquiry 307 and 308.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U33	First of all, 307.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U34	Yeah, I mean, they're single. But I'm asking the manager for quite a while, because it might take a little longer. I hope not, but there are ten questions in Question 308.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U35	I am now giving 15 minutes, and I consider that inquiry 308 is separate and that these questions will continue. The second 15 minutes will come at the next point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U36	All right, let's get started. Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of time saving, I do not read the questions. First answer. Reports on developments in criminal policy have already been held in this Chamber since 2004. The presentation on the current developments on 26 February was the third in line. As the time of the report is limited, we will focus on the main objectives of development, which is to contain crime by reducing reversibility and juvenile delinquency, and on the other hand we will bring out to the Riigikogu the most important developments that concern other areas. On the one hand, we have made our choice in this regard, which is to be reflected in one year and which is to be reflected in the next, on the other hand, it must certainly be taken into account that developments are in place for nine years and that not all areas can be dealt with at the same time on this board. However, I confirm that the aim is to achieve progress on all points. In any case, I would like to thank the authors of the inquiry that you have taken the trouble to see the development document. This has given me the opportunity to talk about issues that were not included in the presentation. Here it may be appropriate to note that a few weeks ago, the Minister of the Interior and I specified the priorities of the government in the fight against crime. They are available on the website of the Ministry of Justice. The most important change would be the explicit labelling of domestic violence. Of course, we ask each year for feedback from other ministries and we have received it. We are working together on a daily basis to achieve the goals of the trends, the best example of which is perhaps the programme of risky children and young people developed with the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs, in which we will invest EUR 7.6 million in crime prevention with the support of the Norwegian State in the coming years. This programme is one of the main milestones in the design and implementation of cross-ministerial policies. The answer to the second question. I dare say that in all these areas, the government's actions have been very clear: we have constantly provided more resources to deal with priority areas. Cybercrime is dealt with by a separate unit, the number of corruption cases has increased, we have educated practitioners on human trafficking and provided victims with better assistance and advice, the police have changed their tactics in relation to domestic violence, and we have also contributed strongly to prevention. According to last year's Council on Crime Prevention, the objective of the Project for Crime Prevention is to support this year's action aimed at reducing domestic violence at EUR 50000. Our answer to question three. Speaking of NGOs, I will highlight last year's discussions on the infamous ACTA and certainly also on the draft crime of incitement to hatred. These discussions have been long and with a very wide range of participants. Of the things currently under way in the area of government of our ministry, I would like to highlight the very intensive work being done, the preparation of a new anti-corruption strategy. There are a large number of people involved. Answer to question four. Speaking of supporters and this programme, fundamental assessments are not yet to be made. As we know, the implementation of the programme only last year, in other words 2012. We were able to train 50 supporters in a year, and 56 people who had been released from prison had already received a service. It should be taken into account that thousands of prisoners are released from prison each year. In view of the number of volunteers, we may be able to grab a few hundred people a year with a voluntary system in the future. That is the preliminary assessment. However, I am convinced that this is a very important area. The first few months after release are the most critical in terms of coping with former prisoners, and in order to reduce reversibility, it is essential to provide them with support at that time. The primary system can be probation, which provides behavioural control, on the one hand, and support based on social work, on the other. On average, one in five inmates will be released from prison in Estonia before the deadline, and this is the only assumption that we can direct a person under the support of a probation worker or oblige him to submit to behavioural control. In my opinion, the voluntary support system has a clear place in our society. However, as I have already said, it is still too early to make an assessment of this, perhaps in a few years' time, we will be able to say in little detail how the supporters' programme has been implemented and whether we will be able to take further steps in this area. Question five and answer that question. As far as the local level is concerned, this is certainly very important precisely in primary crime prevention. After all, both the child protection and education systems work at municipal level, and that is why we would certainly like to see better cooperation at local level. Crime prevention is a common matter for all of us, and parties must work together to help specific people, as well as to solve more general problems. When looking at the activities of the Ministry of Justice, we have carried out a community-based prevention project with our partners and waking local authorities, which sought to create networks and develop a methodology for solving problems at local level. More specifically, it can be accessed on the website of crime prevention.ee, where you can find information about 'Note and care! ' about the campaign. We have also organized events to introduce good practice to the people of local governments in the field of crime prevention. The last major event was on 21 March at Tallinn University, where we had Nordic specialists who shared experiences in community crime prevention and especially in helping young people. The Ministry of Justice will soon open a call for proposals to implement projects supporting community crime prevention. To conclude, a great deal of work has already been done in this area, but it is true that the real results of these activities in terms of committing crimes and reducing reversibility will appear later. Question 6 and its answer. The risks of the future are indeed becoming today's risks in the context of your question. When you think about what happened to the Estonian cyclists in Lebanon, or about the difficult problems arising from marriages and common children with foreigners, we all understand that. We also know that illegal immigration into Estonia is growing. However, the opportunities for such immigration that we want are not very verifiable and broad. I think that the most important thing is to improve the quality and availability of public services so that we can respond to such cases and help people. A good example is certainly the recent improvement of the victim support system, contributing to human strength and competence to help victims of human trafficking in particular. I also note that, in cooperation with the five ministries, a study will begin this year, with which we will try to find bottlenecks and provide clear solutions to the problems related to the adaptation of foreigners who come to Estonia here. The answer to Question 7. The most important step in cybercrime was the creation of a special unit in the Central Criminal Police to identify and resolve crimes committed on computer networks. Last year, the Central Criminal Police developed the concept of combating cybercrime, an action plan for the establishment of a cybercrime office and a recruitment plan for the years 2012 to 2016. In terms of prevention, it is important that in 2012 the second Estonian web constable started working online to provide advice and answer citizens' questions on internet communication portals and forums. Originally, the creation of a web constable was designed to be closer to young people and to provide them with assistance and advice in familiar environments, in particular with regard to the safe use of the Internet and sexual self-determination, but the web constable has also shown popularity among the adult population. The web constable has been approached with questions ranging from traffic and petty mishaps to violence, looking for missing persons and drug offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U37	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U38	You said at the beginning of your presentation that the development plan has been drawn up for nine years and not all areas can be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U39	Yeah, during the report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U40	Right, in the course of the report, not in the course of nine years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U41	I said that the trends are nine years old and that all areas cannot be dealt with in the report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U42	I'll ask you this. We were talking about the involvement of local governments and the project 'Note and care! '. How many municipalities are involved in the initiatives of the Ministry of Justice? How much of them? We know that there are 244 municipalities, whether 8, 10, 12, 10 or 15% of them are involved? How extensive is this cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U43	We're gonna open a website right now. It's all in there. These municipalities, of course, do not make up half of the local governments of Estonia, nor do they make up a quarter. That's why I used the word "wake up." The municipalities where we are currently carrying out this project are Jõhvi, Kose, Lihula, Rapla, Tapa and Viljandi, the municipalities of Mäetaguse, Toila, Sillamäe, Rakvere, Tootsi and Harku joined the programme in the year before. These municipalities were involved in an earlier notice program. Of course, there could be more.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U44	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U45	Good waitress! I'll take the opportunity to ask you this. The National Defence Development Plan is reviewed every four years and it is wise. A wise person too will surely correct his actions. Does the Ministry of Justice plan to make any changes to the "Criminal Policy Developments until 2018"? For example, our society's shocking paedophilia story arose again. How operationally can you discuss the fact that perhaps there will be more punishment, would such brothers be shutting down for a long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U46	We're operational. The revision of the Penal Code is underway. In a few weeks, the first results from the University of Tartu should reach the Ministry. As regards crimes involving children, this year Estonia is taking over a directive against child pornography. I am absolutely convinced that, in the context of its transposition, there will be a heated debate in this Chamber about the penalties, whether they need to be changed or not. So, yes, we are prepared enough to discuss this issue seriously this year in the Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U47	Thank you very much. No more questions for the waitress. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. This point is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U48	Let's move on to the third item on today's agenda. This is an inquiry by Riigikogu members Neeme Suur, Andres Anvelt, Mart Meri, Marianne Mikko, Karel Rüütli, Sven Mikeri, Heljo Pikhofi, Rannar Vassilyev, Jaan Õunapuu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Helmen Küti, Eiki Nestor, Kajar Lemberi, Rein Randveri, Kalle Laaneti, Lembit Kaljuvee and Kalev Kotkas on 18 March 2013 regarding the implementation of Riigikogu decision 'Criminal policy developments until 2018' (No 308) to the Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur. I'm asking for a speech chair at Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U49	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, It is a second question on the same subject, and I have a good opportunity to propose to the Minister that he may follow the example of the Ministry of the Interior in making these reviews. It provides an annual policy review so that the answers can be found in a whole book. The minister reports as much as he arrives during this period, answers the questions that are asked to him, but the answers on the whole of this policy document will be printed out separately and will also be submitted to the members of the Riigikogu. That way, there is an exhaustive view. In his speech, the Minister deals with the most important moments. It's pretty good practice, and maybe the Ministry of Justice should take advantage of this good experience. But now we are asking the Minister to answer the rest of the questions on the implementation of developments in criminal policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U50	Thank you very much. I would like the Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur, to answer the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U51	The Ministry of Justice will certainly thank you for this proposal! We have so far tried to save paper and have kept most of our materials in electronic form. We have a completely separate website on crime prevention.ee, it's worth praising there sometimes. Nature is also worth saving. Since there are ten questions about this question, I don't read them, just answer them. Answer to the first question. The protection of victims and witnesses is indeed an extremely important issue in criminal policy. Last year, a serious study entitled 'Congratulations and Witnesses in Incriminating Proceedings' was completed, which can also be read on the website of the Ministry of Justice. On the basis of this survey, some of the principles of victim protection in the European Union are already the subject of a draft coming to the Riigikogu this year, with which the rights of victims and witnesses will certainly be much better protected. On the other hand, we have actively addressed the issue of reporting crimes, which also concerns both victims and witnesses. We will also address this issue at the end of this month in the Crime Prevention Council. We are trying to find solutions to better achieve the desired result. It is clear that people who tell them that they need help can help first and foremost. Thirdly, in the context of the previous and previous years, the active activities of the police and the prosecutor's office in dealing with cases of domestic violence cannot be considered to be of little importance. The fourth issue is the increasing use of conciliation in criminal proceedings year after year. The practice of other countries as well as of Estonia itself shows that, in the case of measures of restaurant law, this reconciliation is, after all, a much greater degree of satisfaction for victims at the end of the process than in the case of traditional trials. It is certainly our wish that the number of conciliation procedures will increase. The second question and the answer to that. An example of the activities of the Ministry of Social Affairs in prevention at first level could be the drafting of a new Child Protection Act last year. Secondly, I would mention the guarantee for investments from the financial mechanism of the European Economic Area in order to introduce an evidence-based programme to improve parental skills in Estonia. I believe that these two are very voluminous works that change the situation in Estonia quite a lot. The third question was the activities of the Ministry of Education and Research. I would like to mention two important areas in which I believe that what is being done has the greatest impact. Firstly, in order to reduce early school leaving, the work of teaching counselling centres continued. In these centres, 7556 cases were resolved last year, involving a total of 14573 children, 10776 parents, 7040 educational staff and 1024 officials. The number of cases and advice has increased from year to year. The second issue is the aim of raising awareness of the safety of the school environment and increasing the methodological competence of teachers. This will also be achieved by supporting the activities of the Alliance for Child Welfare. Separately, the programs 'Colipeace' and 'Cheering-free kindergarten', which have been implemented more widely, can be mentioned. By the end of the year, 46 kindergartens had already been implemented in the Kisus-free kindergarten program. The fourth question was about committees for minor matters. In the field of the work of these committees, the work of the Ministry of Education and Research has probably been most important in drafting a new law on the leverage of minors. As far as I know, there's a plan to get into government with this bill in the second half of the year. We now have 67 committees on minors. Last year, for example, the City of Rakvere also expressed its wish to set up such a committee. Looking at an indicator that is very important to me, i.e. the speed with which the juvenile Affairs Commission is carrying out its proceedings, the preliminary figures indicate that the average time last year was 23 days. Compared to a year earlier, it is ten days less, and it is very good that we can get a solution from the Committee on Minors so quickly. The fifth question is about cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs in the field of drug addiction. It's a pleasure to look back on the year. At the end of last year, while the Social Minister's regulation confirmed the medical and rehabilitation requirements for the application of addiction treatment, last year, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the substitution punishment for addiction treatment began to be offered. There are specific service descriptions for the provision of treatment and rehabilitation services to drug users, which are being updated on an ongoing basis. Amendments to the Psychiatric Assistance Act came to the Riigikogu procedure last year. It lays down, inter alia, the bases, conditions and procedures for providing rehabilitation assistance to minors, including inescapable psychiatric assistance which is beyond the will of the minor. The sixth question concerns reversibility. The Ministry of Justice has continuously analysed recidivism year after year. We have tried to compare our figures with international statistics, but the systems are too different. The most important indicator for us is the reversibility of those released from prison, which is currently too high. The latest published figures confirm that the transition from prison to freedom is too steep for many people. If we were to make better use of the possibilities of probation, it would be much easier for these people to reintegrate into society. The seventh question concerns alcohol. The short answer is that the drafting of the Green Paper on alcohol policy is at the end of the Social Ministry, and hopefully a broad public debate will be launched on this issue. The Ministry of Social Affairs is playing a leading role here, and I believe that the heirs will also hear about this Green Paper in the near future. The eighth question is about domestic violence. A lot of things can be brought out here. Firstly, I would like to highlight last year's project concerning cooperation between the Police and Border Guard Board and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Its title was 'Create Security in Cooperation' and its focus was on raising awareness among officials and prosecutors of close relationship violence and enhancing cooperation between different authorities in this area. Efforts have been made to reduce the number of victims of close relationship violence by providing more assistance and protection to potential victims and by enhancing networking. The activities concerned were carried out in six Estonian counties. Trainings for judges and prosecutors were also organised last year to raise awareness of domestic violence. The cooperation of the Estonian Women's Shadows Association with the Women's Support Centre-Shadows Centre of Ida-Virumaa should be noted, especially the trainings carried out in Jõhvi and Sillamäe. Young people were told what to do to avoid being a victim of violence. The chapters on domestic violence and trafficking in human beings were also completed last year in the study books of social education in comprehensive school and upper secondary school. I believe this will help raise awareness among young people. The ninth question concerns point 24 of the trends, i.e. the cooperation of the Ministry of Social Affairs with local governments and the non-profit sector in the creation of shelters. The victim assistance service is provided by the Victim Assistance Department of the Social Insurance Board under the Victim Assistance Act, and the inquisitors know this. This department employs 27 employees who provide victim support services and conduct conciliation procedures. A total of 4510 visits were made to these employees last year. 1697 cases were being referred to the police, 2474 cases were the victim having to ask for help on his own initiative and 339 cases were being directed by other authorities. The main reason for this appeal was domestic violence, which was 2065. Violence against children was at stake 243 times, physical violence 323 times. Victim support workers were involved in juvenile interrogation 565 cases last year. Unfortunately, the police also had to report death to their loved ones, 27 times. Compared to previous years, the number of conciliation procedures for victim support workers was higher. The prosecutor's office and the court sent 656 cases to conciliation proceedings last year. Last year, the Ministry of Social Affairs financed, through the Gambling Tax Council, a total of EUR 311000 for the activities of ten women shelters and EUR 23000 for the activities of the 1492 hotline. To provide services to victims of trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation, the Ministry of Social Affairs concluded two separate contracts in 2012: Eluline with a non-profit association amounting to 79889 euros, while Eluline with the Estonian Women's Shadows Association amounted to 15978 euros. In addition, through the Gambling Tax Council, the Ministry of Social Affairs financed the shelter of victims of human trafficking in Vega for an amount of EUR 15978. With regard to the Trafficking in Human Beings Directive, as far as I know, the Ministry of Social Affairs has prepared amendments to the Victim Assistance Act and the Social Welfare Act aimed at improving the availability and quality of services. The tenth question is about the perpetrators of crime. Among the most important steps in the fight against corruption, it should be noted that on 1 September of last year, the Criminal Department of the Police and Border Guard Board was established, which was converted into the Central Criminal Police at the beginning of last year. A special anti-corruption unit was set up. At the beginning of 2012, the handling of corruption crimes by the police was concentrated in the Office for Corruption Crimes. This office currently employs 28 officials, much more than a few years ago. As regards the competence of the Defence Police Office in the fight against corruption, in recent years, meetings between them have resulted in more detailed investigation-related subordinates. As a result, the primary task of the Defence Police is to try to prevent corruption that threatens the country's external, internal and economic security and to deal effectively with the cases detected. With the aim of clearer regulation of the surveillance activities of the security authorities, the law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and related amendments to other laws was also adopted last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U52	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U53	Last week, my group and I visited Narva. We also visited the city's drug prevention centre and talked to the workers there. One of the concerns raised was that the willingness and ability of schools to deal with drug prevention is very different. Some give themselves a minimum, some a maximum, but the general problem is that schools lack both resources and competence to deal with the subject as much as it is necessary in Ida-Viru County. What can I do here? This is also the subject of our questioning today. What are the options for improving drug prevention in schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U54	I agree with you a hundred percent that the level is very different. This depends to a large extent on teachers who give it to young people. I am just thinking about issues relating to drug addiction and other addictions. It is not only about drug addiction, but also about smoking, about alcohol consumption, about all the addictions that young people may have. On the one hand, I am very pleased that, at least formally, the material has new and constructive content. Whether this content reaches students depends primarily on teachers. You specifically ask what can be done. I believe that if the teachers who talk about addictions to young people are constantly trained, the results will be better. As you said, the level is uneven. To a certain extent, shock therapy has sometimes been used. Young people have been taken to prison or rehabilitation facilities to show what is happening there. Whether or not such shock therapy works depends on the individual, but I believe that raising young people's awareness is essential. On the other hand, it is always possible to do daily work both in the education and social system and, unfortunately, when a person has reached the field of view of experts in the justice system, more professionally. One important undertaking I have already mentioned is the creation of advisory centres by the Ministry of Social Affairs. If it is difficult and if the school sees that one family or one child is having difficulties, then the person in need can be directed to counseling. I have mentioned to you before the guidelines, which prove that this work is already being done quite a bit, but, of course, quality can always be improved. There are a lot of topics today. They are also quite concretely enshrined in the development plan for reducing violence, not only in the developments in criminal policy that we are presenting before Parliament. If you take up a report on the implementation of the 2012 Action Plan on Reducing Violence, it will state precisely which programme has also carried out activities aimed at reducing dependence. I have just opened up a line from the Ministry of Social Affairs, which is not about drug addiction, but about developing the concept of treatment and rehabilitation for young people with alcohol problems, how to do this work better, how to ensure that all these activities can still be done nicely, etc. The state has foreseen a wide range of activities, but whether they also reach young people, and even if they do, how young people receive everything in this respect there are many different opinions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U55	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U56	Good minister! We all understand that corruption crimes are very serious crimes. Their investigation is divided between two structures, the Defence Police Department and the new unit of the Central Criminal Police. Last year, one of the faceless corruption cases of the Defence Police Department remains on the job, which did not reach anywhere and also damaged the reputation of the Defence Police Department. Should the Defence Police Department now get rid of the corruption investigation and focus on handing over this area to the Central Criminal Police? I'm sure there are capable people who can do this job. The Defence Police could have, from the point of view of our country, a very reliable organisation, a much deeper task that concerns the wider picture of national security.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U57	My subjective opinion is that the Defence Police Department could only be an anti-intelligence facility. The way we agree nationally depends, of course, on whether we have the capacity of the Central Criminal Police. On the one hand. Of course, we could suggest that we just take the people who are on the payroll of the Defence Police Department and transfer them to the Central Criminal Police, but I do not want to come up with such statements under the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. But I believe that this is the subject of debate and debate. In recent years, we have been based on the understanding that certain types of corruption may also be a security threat when resolving the investigative power of the Defence Police Department and the Police and Border Guard Board. If it's a security threat, the Department of Defense will handle it. In this sense, the Defence Police Department also has investigative competence, particularly in corruption matters. But if the questioner wants to know my subjective opinion, I think the central criminal police could be strengthened, perhaps giving him more rights in this matter. Corruption cases could be the competence of the Central Criminal Police of the Police and Border Guard Board, so that the Defence Police could focus on the security of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U58	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. This point is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U59	The fourth question is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Peeter Võsa, Vladimir Velman, Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Kadri Simson, Mailis Reps, Ester Tuiksoo, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta, Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendijev and Enn Eesmaa on 28 March 2013 to the Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur. I'm asking for Peter Võsa's speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U60	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear colleagues! On 28 March, a request to the Minister of Justice concerning mortgage loans was indeed received. In the second half of March this year, the International Monetary Fund recommended that the Estonian authorities consider setting limits on the loan-to-guarantee value and the loan-to-income ratio. The reason was that Estonia has a very large share of short-term variable interest rate mortgage loans, which increases the risks associated with the housing market and the economic downturn. When we remember the real estate boom and think about the trail it left, we realize that there are two kinds of real estate boom victims. Some have taken out housing loans and, in addition, the cooperative has taken out loans to renovate the house. These people have to pay two loans, of which only one was planned for the family budget. The other kind of victims are the ones who have already taken home, but they still owe the bank a mortgage. Speaking about debt in general, the credit management company Lindorff Estonia analysed the debt behaviour of people last year, compared to the state of things a year earlier. Based on the analysis, Äripäev's journalist Indrek Kald pointed out that the typical debtor is a 35-year-old man with mostly one or two outstanding invoices on time. Similarly, the journalist referred to the very sad fact that the number of young people among debtors has grown most rapidly. The high number of debtors shows that domestic credit policies have been unreasonable. As this affects the standard of living of our people, we have four questions for the Minister, which we look forward to providing meaningful answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U61	Thank you. I would like to ask for a chair of speech from Secretary of Justice, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Before I begin to answer directly, I would say as an introduction that the protection of the rights of the beneficiary of the loan has certainly been one of the important work topics in the Ministry of Justice in recent years. We have been trying to improve the legal order constantly in this area. In addition, I note that the design of loan agreements and loan market regulations are also among the tasks of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance, and we have a good opportunity to provide support to these ministries. But now to the questions. Answer to the first question. When we analyse the economic boom and the financial crisis that followed, it is clear that this has been a wider European problem. The financial crisis started in 2007 and the problems of the credit market in the European Union have been very topical for several years. There is a lively public debate on these issues in most Member States. We know that loans are an area that is partly regulated by European Union legislation. In my opinion, there is nothing wrong with this and it is deplorable because many of the problems encountered during the financial crisis, such as over-indebtedness, are similar in many Member States, it makes sense that the problems are dealt with together. However, while the economic model applied in Estonia is characterised primarily by economic freedom, if the credit market shows strong trends that threaten the consumer or the economic environment, the state may consider measures to improve the situation. If necessary, the country may intervene in the financial sector. And it should be noted that this has also been done. I will take this opportunity to explain briefly what has been done and what will be planned in our ministry in future. In particular, the state intervenes in the activities of the financial sector by shaping legislation, i.e. the regulatory environment. Looking back, on 1 January 2007, the implementation of the banks' obligation to comply with the principles of responsible lending when issuing loans. This has given banks an obligation to take greater account of the needs of the borrower and the ability to repay the loan. Other creditors will be subject to the requirement for responsible lending at law level from 2011 when the amendments to the new Consumer Credit Directive entered into force in the Law of Obligations Act, which significantly improved consumer protection. The consumer will receive more information about the contract before it is concluded in a clearer and clearer form than in the past. Before the conclusion of the contract, the creditor must assess the consumer's creditworthiness and explain to him whether the proposed loan is in line with his needs and financial situation. The consumer will be able to withdraw without giving reasons within 14 days of the contract concluded. In the past, that deadline was seven days. In addition, the possibility of repaying the loan received before the deadline was extended and a number of other changes were made which would benefit the consumer. It is important to note that since 2009, the General Part of the Civil Code Act has been a regulation which has tried to protect consumers against usurious interest in consumer credit agreements. Thus, compared to the boom time, the consumer is now in a much more secure position than in the past when taking a loan. In addition to legislative measures, the competent authorities have the right to make recommendations to undertakings on changes to their lending policies. Looking at the press releases of Eesti Pank and the Financial Supervision Authority during and after the boom, references to recommendations made to banks can be more conservative when issuing loans. As regards the future plans of the Ministry of Justice, we have several projects to improve consumer protection and make lending more responsible. Together with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, we have submitted a draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Advertising Act to the Riigikogu, which aims to clarify the obligation to comply with the principle of responsible lending in the Law of Obligations Act and to supplement the Advertising Act in such a way as to ensure the responsible and balanced advertising of consumer credit and to prevent advertising from giving the impression that consumer credit is a risk-free and easy way to solve financial problems. As far as I know, the Committee on Legal Affairs has discussed this on the initiative of a respected author of an inquiry, or at least in his presence, just today. It is certainly worth paying attention to the mortgage credit directive that is currently being drawn up in the European Union. If you want to search the Internet, the keyword is 'COM (2011) 142 final'. According to this document, the aim is to create an efficient and competitive but responsible mortgage credit market that protects consumers. In Estonia, the Ministry of Finance has been appointed as the main responsible for handling the draft directive. The Ministry of Justice will certainly support the Ministry of Finance, particularly in matters of law relating to the contract. We also take into account the need for active participation in the future transposition process. The second question is whether any relevant drafts are being prepared at the Ministry of Justice. As I said, what the Ministry of Justice can and will do is to make lending more responsible. This objective is served by the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Advertising Act already mentioned. I hope that Parliament will be able to adopt it as a law before the summer. I believe that this is the most concrete draft. However, as I mentioned in reply to the previous question, there is a Commission proposal that is in work. This concerns mortgage loans in particular. We'll see how it goes. The third question was what are the objectives of the Ministry of Justice this year. This year's objective, as has already been mentioned, is to process the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Advertising Act in Parliament, as well as to shape the Estonian views relating to the European Union's Mortgage Credit Directive, so that this directive becomes as acceptable to Estonia. As far as recovery costs are concerned, an analysis is currently underway to get a clear picture of how much changes are needed in this regard. Question 4: Is fast-track loans still a problem in Estonia? If you answer that question in one word, the answer is yes. A bit of an addition must be made to the fact that fast-track loans are also a concern in our neighbouring countries. On the basis of the situation we had a few years ago, things have changed a lot since then. For example, in 2009, the application of consumer credit regulation was subject to a set of lower limit amounts, whereas previously known consumer credit protection provisions did not apply to loans below EUR 200. The consumer credit standards described above must apply to all kinds of fast-track loans. Also, since 2009, our General Part of the Civil Code Act has clear principles on which consumers can defend themselves against usury interest. However, it cannot be said that all the problems have been solved. Therefore, work on better regulation in this area will continue in the future. Finally, I hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs will process the draft presently held in the Riigikogu quickly and will also reach its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U63	Thank you. Minister, there are questions for you. Peter Võsa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U64	Dear Minister, I'm going to enlighten you a little bit about what's going on in the Committee on Legal Affairs. It is not easy to process the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Advertising Act. But what I'm asking is, why do we have to wait for any outside guidance? In this case, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) is making a comment. Why can't we take the initiative and do something to protect our people? Why do we have to wait for instructions and instructions from outside?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U65	I have just read to you the many changes that we have made since 2009, even since 2007. There hasn't been anyone's tips or directions. If someone from outside gives us suggestions, good advice is always welcome. I could ask why you have not dealt with this draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Advertising Act quickly in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I understand the problem, I am aware of this procedure, but I really would like to know what your concrete proposal could still be made. From 2007 to 2009, I was a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, and at that time we dealt with fast-track drafts very thoroughly, very seriously. Then there was also a long dispute over how high the APR should be, and there were other dispouses. So, if you look at the current rules of law, I would argue that there is much to be said about what people know or do not know about their awareness of entering into loan agreements, taking consumer credit. If they knew all the risks, maybe they wouldn't sign contracts like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U66	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U67	Dear Minister, The content of my question is the diametrical content of Peter Võsa's question, so I approach the general one alone. This was about the Euro Directive, which Estonia, along with others, is taking part in the preparation of. Then perhaps we will make our own proposals to the Centre as to what this euro directive should be. What, though, is the timetable? When is this directive to be adopted? I suppose it can be assumed that because the circumstances of nations and countries are very different, this is a relatively complex and time-consuming process.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U68	It's complicated! On the exact timetable, I owe the answer because it is not on the justice ministers' table, but on the ECOFIN table, i.e. on the finance ministers' table. It is possible that this will also go through, I expect at least from the table of economic ministers. We provide national input by the Ministry of Justice, particularly from the perspective of debt and contract law. As regards the main substantive issues, which are mainly of interest to the heirs, they should receive the basic answers from the Ministry of Finance, as mortgage loans are certainly directly the subject of finance. It is expected that further information will be available on the Commission's website. I do not know that we would have made it to the ministerial circle, which means that we will certainly not finish this year. As the document is on the ECOFIN table, I cannot say whether or not the Lithuanian Presidency has planned it as its next Presidency. Perhaps the Minister of Finance or someone else at the Ministry of Finance can answer more precisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U69	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U70	Good Minister, you mentioned that since 2007, all kinds of improvements have been made to the law on lending. But it is from this time or a little later that huge loan slavery and forced home sales have become a very serious problem. People are being evicted from apartments and homes. You asked if we had made any suggestions. Yes, we are. We have also made a number of proposals to improve this law. In our opinion, the creditor should ensure that the person to whom the loan is granted is able to survive after that. However, as we know, our proposals were not accepted at all, and the introduction of thresholds, which, for example, are already coming into force in Finland, is also at risk. How do you comment on that? Why do you not support these proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U71	The principle of responsible lending has been in place for many years. You referred to the year 2007. Our main concerns actually started a little earlier, when the banks really granted loans on a very large scale. Perhaps the value of the guarantees for these loans has now been, yes, changed, perhaps a little overrated in the course of the evaluations at the time. As I said in reply to the inquiry, if you look back in time, both the Financial Supervision Authority and Eesti Pank called on banks to behave sensibly. Of course, it is sad that a number of people in Estonia who have taken loans have lost their jobs because of the economic crisis and are unable to pay back the money. Even if they have been given a loan leave, their situation is difficult. Of course, the situation of these specific people is undisputedly complicated. You say that your proposals have not been taken into account. But let us look at these proposals. We take the bank's and also the SMS lender's responsibility to check the status of the borrower And the draft, which is currently in the proceedings of the Committee on Legal Affairs, and which the person asking for it also knows, further specifies what circumstances must be checked when granting the creditor a loan. There is only a further question of how much control must be given to companies providing SMS loans and whether this must be done by the Consumer Protection Board or the Financial Supervision Authority. These debates will certainly be held in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U72	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U73	I would point out that the latest changes concerning the fast-forward loan were made in 2008.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U74	In 2009.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U75	There was hope then, but unfortunately these changes have not given much. We know that there are currently around 100,000 fast-lenders, 70,000 of which have taken out SMS loans. These people are like hostages. 100,000 people in Estonia, this is still a fairly large number! I mean, it's even like a security issue, not just a small problem. You know very well how high the percentages of these loans are, not 200% or 400%, which is quite common, but it can also happen that there are 5.5% and 27000%. We've had a lot of talk about this. It is very sad that no one really controls it just because the Consumer Protection Board doesn't control it, the Financial Supervision Authority doesn't control it either.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U76	The Consumer Protection Board has these rights. As regards the specific persons and loan agreements which, as you mentioned, require interest in thousands of percentages, the General Part of the Civil Code Act, in conjunction with other laws, gives the debtor the opportunity to go to court and have this claim annulled. We have the APR fixed at law level, which is three times the consumption cost rate calculated and published by Eesti Pank. You have to break this particular law, I don't quite remember the exact wording. But there are also clear court rulings. If a person has signed a loan agreement in which he or she clearly has not understood the interest rate required, the court has cancelled that interest rate. Of course, people have to stand up for their rights. If interest rates exceed what is permitted by law, then you have to go to court to protect your rights and it is very likely that you will receive protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U77	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U78	Minister, this final statement could be the best anecdote of the week. I don't know any SMS borrowers capable of going to court. After all, man is so poor that he has been forced to take this loan with these large percentages and to take himself hostage for a lifetime, I would even say, not as a hostage, but as a debt slave. The same question that has been put to you has also been put to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi in this Chamber. His view is that the interests of entrepreneurship must be protected in particular. The granting of SMS loans is entrepreneurship and we must not restrict its freedom. Here's my question. You're saying you've been doing a lot of borrowing protection over the last few years. Can you give me three points you've done to protect SMS borrowers? For example, point 1, point 2 and point 3.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U79	This was all set out in the answer to the inquiry. We could make the same amendments to the Law of Obligations Act and the Advertising Act that are currently being discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs, there are more than three points. All of these have the same objective: to ensure that people's rights are better protected. I do not underestimate the people who, under circumstances, have had to take any form of loan, and they certainly have the opportunity to stand up for their rights. If they fail, there is also an opportunity to apply for state legal aid. The amounts of state aid are quite significant. Legal aid is also available from specific country's contractual partners. So if a SMS lender has knowingly broken the law, the rights of a person should not be left unprotected because he or she has financial difficulties.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U80	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U81	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Every time I see another SMS loan ad on TV, I can't help but see a picture of a bunch of vampires doing commercials looking for victims to suck blood from. Everything is clear here in the Riigikogu. The opposition's drafts will never be passed as a law, because they are made by the opposition. There are examples, you can't argue with that. In committees, everything can last for years. Ten years went by to make and adopt the Law of Obligations Act. Why don't you do something about the SMS ad and these companies? Don't you have such a wish?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U82	I would recommend that you examine the content of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Advertising Act initiated by the Government before the Legal Committee of the Riigikogu. If any member of the Riigikogu wishes to make proposals to amend it, this option has been possible. The deadline for amendments is over, but it is still possible to do so on the Commission's own initiative. Your group includes Peter Võsa, sitting behind you, and Marika Tuus-Laul, sitting a little away from you. So it has been possible to make proposals. In general, however, I believe that if these legislative changes are approved, people's protection will be better than it has been so far. Once again, look at the state of the Estonian credit market in 2007-2009 and what it is now, which restrictions have been imposed on entrepreneurship in order to protect people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U83	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U84	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I put the word "hypotheque loan" in the computer and discovered that a sentence like "Bank doesn't grant a loan" was about to open. We do! '. And it is further confirmed that the loan decision will be made in just one hour. You talked for a long time about what needs to be done to get the mortgage. Turns out there are banks on one side, 'they' on the other. And that's how you get the question of who better works at banks or 'they'. Are you convinced that these others are under state control and that large sums of money will not go past the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U85	I will not comment on the part of the state budget. But as for the fact that there are banks and are 'they', there are different forms of enterprise in the Estonian business market, where similar parallels can be drawn and calls can be made to turn the taps off. After all, information has come through the media that when alcohol sales began to be restricted at the time, alcohol taxis appeared on the market, which is a completely illegal activity. The granting of SMS loans is regulated by the State, subject to certain restrictions and certain obligations. Once again, if a company providing a SMS loan has knowingly broken the law on some contracts, then it is possible for a person to go to court to defend his rights. You can find all sorts of things on the Internet in the Internet area, with all kinds of offers you can ask people for money. Reports are sent from India and elsewhere, for example, and it is claimed that someone has died and come and accept the legacy, but first transfer 1,000 euros to our account. There are a lot of scams to draw money out of people on the Internet. The legal issue of money, however, is regulated quite harshly by the state. However, I admit that more can certainly be done. Let us begin by approving the amendment of the Law of Obligations Act and the Advertising Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U86	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Heimar Leng, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U87	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I only came to the remote for a short speech. I got the word 'banks and 'they' in my ear. In fact, the situation in the country is such that there is a common people, ordinary people and 'they'. The latter include banks, government coalitions and also SMS lenders. I would like to remind you once again that I have put a question to the Minister of Finance in this very remote area. Jürgen Ligi answered for a long time and was upset when the Central Party wanted to protect the beneficiaries of the SMS loans. Again, what Jürgen Ligi said. He said that we must protect entrepreneurship in Estonia, entrepreneurship must be free, it must not be restricted, and the granting of SMS loans is also entrepreneurship. Valeri Korb has just quoted the golden rule of this business: come to us, we'll make a deal with you in an hour! The person who is going to take a SMS loan may be struggling to pay some of the higher debts and, as a last straw, seizes the loan with an interest rate of 5,000 percent or, as it was mentioned here, even 27,000 percent. And so he falls into debt slavery for years. All of this began with the ideology of the Reform Party and the IRL. Remember the slogans in the Estonian press, not in 2007, but in 2005 and 2004. Young people were told the same thing from day to day: The whole world is borrowing! In the United States, loans are taken, entire current generations live with loans, and next generations too. It's a matter of honor to borrow! And young people were raised in the spirit of borrowing. Not to stick together and then buy something, but go ahead and borrow it. It was a great strategy and also a very powerful tactic to give Swedbank and SEB bank the opportunity to enslave the Estonian people as customers. In the old days, Estonians had serfs with the landlords and were thrown when they were in trouble. The Estonian people have now become a slave to the banks. That's exactly how you're not just a loan addict, you're a slave to a bank. I don't have the exact figures in my head, but when we look at the statistics, we see that thousands of families have been turned into slaves for 30 years with the same mortgage loans. There will be no joy and happiness in these families, and there will never be, because they think: I will be 60 when we get our housing debt paid. This, however, has been the policy of squirrels and the entire government coalition since 1999. After all, we've had more or less the same forces in the government. It's their politics and their rhetoric. This is how the Estonian people are made a people of debt. The Swedish debt slaves are us Estonians! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U88	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Today's last question has also been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U89	Good fellows! After the hammer hit, please register with those members of the Riigikogu who wish to speak in a free microphone! I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U90	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Something nice by the end of this day. About two years ago, a decision was finally made and an industrial park established in Narva was handed over to one non-large territory within the city. Now, two years later, it's interesting to see what's become of it. It all started quite normally. There was a need for a detailed plan and a division of territory. So 32 properties emerged. Special belief that investors will come and something will be done, not two years ago, but now 14 plots of land have already been sold, nine have been booked and all the rest are being negotiated. I hope that during this year I will be able to tell you about very large investments. But now it is very nice that there are two companies in the construction stage of Narva Industrial Park, and things are so far ahead that two logistics companies will be opened in July. A minimum of two establishments have completed all design work. In the coming days, the council will give them the opportunity to continue working, the construction will begin and one of them will be building already this year, and production should also begin. A minimum of three companies are currently finishing design, the construction work should start in the middle of this summer. It is a pleasure that something positive is happening in Estonia, something that gives us hope for the future. All the projects already under construction, design or real development are worth €65 million and a minimum of 750 jobs should be created on the territory of the industrial park only this year and next year. Sometimes people ask me what you're criticizing all the time. Isn't there something good going on around here? Yes, it is! And today I have a great opportunity to say thank you to all those who applied for this land (including myself), to those investors who have come to Narva (in music, all companies have come from Russia) and to EAS who have supported this project, thanks to which communications have been lit, roads and everything else available. I very much hope that something similar will be done throughout Estonia and in the same amount as in Narva. I also hope that this industrial park, when it is built, will not end in Ida-Virumaa, which means that life will not end there either. People have a job and a chance to earn a living for their families in Estonia, not only abroad. So once again, thank you to all those who took part! We hope that changes to the right will also be possible in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-22_U91	Thank you. There's no more calls. The free microphone has exhausted itself. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 4.49 p.m.
